A configurable storage system particularly suited for use with clean-environment conveyors is disclosed. The storage system includes modular conveyor track elements which may be provided parallel to and adjacent a ceiling mounted conveyor highway. Conveyor elements may be provided as one-way paths which, when provided with plural transfer elements with respect to a conveyor highway, enable the rotation of a work-piece from a storage matrix to a transfer path and back to the storage matrix. Adjacent storage conveyor elements may be used to realize loops of storage elements. A single storage conveyor element may be shared by multiple loops of storage elements. The modularity of the present system enables the realization of plural, nested loops of storage elements. Control over such systems may be provided locally, centrally or some combination of both, and may adjust the behavior of individual storage conveyor elements based on a variety of factors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for storing and transporting work-pieces in a clean manufacturing environment, comprising: at least one multi-dimensional storage matrix for selectively storing and circulating said work-pieces; a transport path for transporting said work-pieces to and from said storage matrix; a plurality of sensors for sensing at least one of positional and identification information relating to said work-pieces within said system; and a control processor operatively communicative with said sensors, said at least one storage matrix and said transport path for configuring said storage matrix and for controlling storage, circulation and transport of the work-pieces in response to the positional and/or identification information received from said sensors, wherein said storage matrix and said transport path are each comprised of modular conveyor elements, and wherein each modular conveyor element is selected from the group consisting of linear conveyor elements for moving said work-pieces in a straight path, rotating conveyor elements for rotating the direction of said work-pieces, elevating conveyor elements for transporting said work-pieces in a vertical path, and junction elements for allowing entry and exit of said work-pieces to and from said storage matrix. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said junction elements are bi-directional elements. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein said sensors are positioned adjacent to said junction elements. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein said storage matrix comprises a plurality of buffer sections for storing said work-pieces. 5. The system according to claim 4, further comprising a plurality of tool stations associated with said buffer sections for receiving said work-pieces therefrom, processing said work-pieces and returning said work-pieces to said buffer sections, said storage matrix, or said transport path in response to communication from said control processor. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein said transport path is a ceiling mounted conveyor and said storage matrix is mounted adjacent thereto. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein said control processor is a centralized processing unit. 8. The system according to claim 1, wherein said control processor is a plurality of distributed local control units. 9. The system according to claim 1, further comprising carriers for transporting one or more of said work-pieces within said storage matrix and on said transport path. 10. The system according to claim 9, wherein said carriers comprise identifying indicia for said work-pieces associated therewith. 11. The system according to claim 10, wherein said identifying indicia are communicated from said sensors to said control processor by an RF transponder or a bus interface. 12. The system according to claim 9, wherein said modular conveyor elements have a length defined by an integer value of said work-piece or carrier length. 13. A storage system for work-in-process material or carriers transporting said material comprising: an aggregate storage matrix comprising plural, mutually-parallel linear conveyor elements for selectively, serially transporting said material or carriers, plural pairs of junction elements, each pair of junction elements associated with a respective one or ones of said linear conveyor elements for selectively transporting said material or carriers to an adjacent linear conveyor element or other junction element, and independently controllable motive units disposed in conjunction with each of said plural linear conveyor elements and said junction elements for enabling selective, asynchronous movement of said material or carriers therebetween; and a transport path in communication with said aggregate storage matrix for transporting said material or carriers to and from said aggregate storage matrix. 14. The storage system of claim 13, further comprising a controller for selectively controlling the operation of each of said junction elements and of said motive units. 15. The storage system of claim 13, wherein each of said linear conveyor elements is comprised of an integer number of linear conveyor segments, each segment having a length defined as an integer multiple of the length of each unit of said material or carriers. 16. The storage system of claim 13, further comprising at least one sensor in association with plural ones of said junction elements for sensing at least one of positional and identification information relating to said material or carriers within said system. 17. The storage system of claim 16, wherein at least one of said linear conveyor elements and a respective pair of junction elements define a buffer section of said aggregate storage matrix, and wherein said aggregate storage matrix is comprised of one or more of said buffer sections. 18. The storage system of claim 17, wherein said motive units are operable to serially transport said material or carriers within said buffer sections in a unidirectional rotation. 19. The storage system of claim 17, wherein each of said buffer sections is operable to independently and serially transport said material or carriers between said at least one linear conveyor element and said respective junction elements. 20. The storage system of claim 17, wherein said motive units are operable to serially transport said material or carriers within said buffer sections in a bi-directional rotation. 21. The storage system of claim 17, wherein one of said linear conveyor elements comprises part of plural ones of said buffer sections. 22. The storage system of claim 17, wherein said transport path is comprised of at least one transfer element disposed in communication with at least one of said buffer sections and operable to transfer said material or carriers between said transport path and said aggregate storage matrix. 23. The storage system of claim 17, wherein said aggregate storage matrix is configured as a one-, two-, or three-dimensional array of said buffer sections. 24. The storage system of claim 23, wherein said transport path is operable to provide a unidirectional transport path for said material or carriers and wherein said buffer sections comprising said aggregate matrix are operable to provide a unidirectional transport path for said material or carriers conveyed therein. 25. The storage system of claim 23, wherein said transport path is operable to provide a unidirectional transport path for said material or carriers and wherein said buffer sections comprising said aggregate storage matrix are operable to provide a multi-directional transport path for said material or carriers conveyed therein. 26. The storage system of claim 17, wherein a first of said buffer sections is further comprised of a pair of junction elements each associated with a linear conveyor element which is not part of said first buffer section. 27. The storage system of claim 13, further comprising mounting fixtures for disposing said aggregate storage matrix proximate the ceiling of a building. 28. The storage system of claim 13, further comprising: a conveyor network in communication with said transport path; and a control system in communication with said aggregate storage matrix, said transport path and said conveyor network for selectively transporting said material or carriers therebetween. 29. The storage system of claim 28, wherein said aggregate storage matrix is a first storage matrix and said transport path is a first transport path, said storage system further comprising a second storage matrix and a second transport path in communication with said control system, whereby said control system is operable to selectively transport said material or carriers between said first and second storage matrices via said first and second transport paths and said conveyor network. 30. The storage system of claim 13, further comprising a tool buffer comprised of at least one linear conveyor element and a respective pair of junction elements, said tool buffer disposed proximate said transport path for selectively receiving said material or carriers therefrom, for selectively and temporarily storing said material or carriers, and for selectively sending said material or carriers to said transport path. 31. The storage system of claim 30, further comprising a tool port segment disposed adjacent said tool buffer for enabling access by a co-located tool or tools to said material or carriers from said tool buffer. 32. The storage system of claim 31, further comprising plural tool buffers, each of said tool buffers providing unidirectional transport to said material or carriers disposed thereon. 33. The storage system of claim 32, wherein said transport path is operable to provide unidirectional transport to said material or carriers disposed thereon, wherein the direction of said unidirectional transport provided by said plural tool buffers is opposite the direction of said unidirectional transport provided by said transport path. 