An autonomous canister vacuum cleaner has a cleaning head module, a vacuum fan module separated from the cleaning module, and a hose assembly connecting the cleaning head module with the vacuum fan module. The vacuum fan module includes a controller that performs navigation and control functions for both the vacuum fan module and the cleaning head module. Alternatively, the controller may be separated from the vacuum fan module and the cleaning head module, and can be mobile. The vacuum fan module and the cleaning head module each include a drive mechanism for propulsion. The cleaning head module includes a cleaning brush assembly that can be motorized or air driven. The cleaning head module may also include a microcontroller that communicates with the controller.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous vacuum cleaner, comprising: a cleaning head module; a fan module separated from the cleaning head module; and a hose connecting the cleaning head module with the fan module, wherein the cleaning head module and the fan module can move independently of each other, and either module can remain stationary when the other module moves along a path. 2. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 1, wherein each of the cleaning head module and the fan module include a drive mechanism for providing independent mobility of the respective modules. 3. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 1, wherein the fan module includes a controller that performs navigation functions. 4. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 3, wherein the controller receives sensor input data from at least one of camera, sonar, lidar or infrared sensor on the fan module. 5. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 3, wherein the controller provides control signals to a drive mechanism in the cleaning head module via a wire assembly incorporated into or run adjacent to the hose. 6. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 5, wherein the fan module provides electrical power to the cleaning head module via the wire assembly. 7. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 3, wherein the controller provides control signals to a drive mechanism in the cleaning head module via a wireless transmitter and receiver assembly. 8. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 3, wherein the cleaning head module includes one or more motors for providing power to a drive mechanism that provides mobility of the cleaning head module. 9. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 8, wherein the cleaning head module includes one or more encoders to provide data to the controller, wherein the data is associated with rotational movement of each of the one or more motors. 10. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 8, wherein the drive mechanism includes drive wheels on at least one of the fan module and cleaning head module. 11. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 8, wherein the drive mechanism includes a tread system on at least one of the fan module and cleaning head module. 12. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 8, wherein the controller provides control signals to the motors in the cleaning head module via a wireless transmitter and receiver assembly. 13. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 3, wherein the cleaning head module includes one or more acoustic dirt sensors, ultrasonic distance sensors, moisture sensors, mold sensor or mechanical touch sensors providing data to the controller. 14. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 3, wherein the fan module includes a power cord for connection to a power outlet. 15. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 14, wherein the fan module includes one or more sensors providing data to the controller, wherein the data is associated with tracking the position of the power cord. 16. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 3, wherein the navigation functions include localization. 17. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 16, wherein localization includes tracking the cleaning head module. 18. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 1, wherein the cleaning head module includes a cleaning brush assembly having at least one cleaning brush. 19. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 18, wherein the cleaning head module further includes a motor to provide power to rotate the cleaning brush. 20. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 18, wherein the cleaning brush is driven by air so as to cause rotational movement. 21. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 18, wherein the cleaning brush does not rotate. 22. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 1, wherein the cleaning head module includes at least one weight configured to maintain the cleaning head module in a position that is in substantially parallel contact with a surface to be cleaned. 23. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 1, wherein the fan module includes a rechargeable battery. 24. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 1, wherein the fan module includes a fuel cell. 25. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 1, wherein the fan module includes an electric motor for driving a fan. 26. An autonomous vacuum cleaner, comprising: a cleaning head module including a drive system having at least a propulsion mechanism; a fan module separated from the cleaning module, wherein the fan module includes a controller having navigation functions; and a hose connecting the cleaning head module with the fan module. 27. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 26, wherein the fan module includes a fan and an electric motor for driving the fan. 28. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 26, additionally comprising a power cord for connecting the fan module to a power outlet, thereby providing power to the fan module. 29. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 28, wherein the power cord is extended and retracted as the fan module moves from a first location to a second location. 30. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 28, wherein the cleaning head module includes one or more sensors providing data to the controller. 31. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 30, wherein at least one of the one or more sensors is configured to track the power cord position. 32. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 30, wherein the one or more sensors include one or more encoders, acoustic dirt sensors, ultrasonic distance sensors, moisture sensors, mold sensor or mechanical touch sensors. 33. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 26, wherein the fan module provides power to the cleaning head module via a wire assembly extending axially along the hose. 34. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 26, wherein the fan module includes a removable container for collecting dirt, dust and/or debris removed by the cleaning head module. 35. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 26, wherein the cleaning head module includes a cleaning brush assembly having at least one cleaning brush. 36. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 35, wherein the cleaning head module further includes a motor to provide power to rotate the cleaning brush. 37. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 35, wherein the cleaning brush is driven by air so as to cause rotational movement. 38. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 35, wherein the cleaning brush is stationary. 39. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 26, wherein the cleaning head module further includes a steering mechanism to direct the motion of the cleaning head module. 40. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 26, wherein the controller sends control signals to at least one motor in the cleaning head module. 41. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 26, wherein the fan module includes a drive system having at least a propulsion mechanism and a steering mechanism to direct the motion of the fan module. 42. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 41, wherein the controller sends control signals to at least one motor in the propulsion mechanism. 43. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 26, wherein the navigation functions include localization and tracking. 44. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 26, wherein the cleaning head module is configured to move independently of the fan module in more than one direction. 45. An autonomous vacuum cleaner system comprising: a cleaning head module; a fan module separated from the cleaning module and having an electric motor to drive a fan; a hose connecting the cleaning head module with the fan module and transferring dust from the cleaning head module to the fan module; and a controller module including a controller and providing navigation control signals to the fan module and to the cleaning head module. 46. The system defined in claim 45, wherein the cleaning head module, fan module, and hose together form a vacuum cleaner, and the controller module is at a location separate from the cleaning head module and the fan module. 47. The system defined in claim 46, wherein the controller module is mobile. 48. The system defined in claim 45, wherein the controller module is configured to perform localization and tracking functions for the fan module and the cleaning head module. 49. The system defined in claim 45, wherein the controller module includes one or more sensors providing data to the controller. 50. The system defined in claim 49, wherein the one or more sensors include at least one of camera, sonar, lidar or infrared sensor. 51. A method of vacuuming with an autonomous vacuum cleaner, the method comprising: powering a fan module; connecting a cleaning head module to the fan module via a hose; performing navigation functions at the fan module; and propelling each of the cleaning head module and the fan module to move across a surface to be cleaned and according to results of the navigation functions. 52. The method defined in claim 51, wherein performing the navigation functions includes localizing the fan module. 53. The method defined in claim 52, wherein localizing further includes tracking the cleaning head module. 54. The method defined in claim 51, additionally comprising receiving sensor input data at the fan module from at least one of camera, sonar, lidar or infrared sensor on the fan module. 55. The method defined in claim 51, wherein propelling the cleaning head module includes moving a cleaning brush assembly having at least one cleaning brush, wherein the cleaning brush assembly is mounted within the cleaning head module. 56. The method defined in claim 55, further comprising rotating the cleaning brush. 57. The method defined in claim 55, further comprising rotating the cleaning brush by air flow. 58. The method defined in claim 55, wherein the cleaning brush is stationary within the cleaning head module. 59. The method defined in claim 51, further comprising wirelessly providing control signals from the fan module to the cleaning head module. 60. The method defined in claim 51, further comprising providing control signals from the fan module to the cleaning head module via a wire assembly extending axially along the hose. 61. The method defined in claim 60, further comprising providing power from the fan module to the cleaning head module via the wire assembly. 62. The method defined in claim 51, further comprising providing encoder data, indicative of movement of the cleaning head module, to the fan module. 63. The method defined in claim 51, further comprising providing sensor data from one or more acoustic dirt sensors, ultrasonic distance sensors, moisture sensors, mold sensors or mechanical touch sensors in the cleaning head module to the fan module. 64. The method defined in claim 51, further comprising providing at least one weight in the cleaning head module to maintain a position that is in substantially parallel contact with the surface to be cleaned. 65. The method defined in claim 51, further comprising connecting a power cord at the fan module to a power outlet. 66. The method defined in claim 65, further comprising extending and retracting the power cord as the fan module moves across the surface. 67. The method defined in claim 66, further comprising: tracking the power cord position; and providing sensor data indicative of the power cord position to a controller located in the fan module. 68. The method defined in claim 51, wherein powering the fan module comprises receiving power from a power source internal to the fan module. 69. An autonomous vacuum cleaner, comprising: a cleaning head module including one or more motors for providing power to a drive mechanism that provides mobility for the cleaning head module; a fan module separated from the cleaning head module; and a hose connecting the cleaning head module with the fan module. 70. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 69, wherein the fan module includes a controller that performs navigation functions. 71. An autonomous vacuum cleaner, comprising: a cleaning head module; a fan module separated from the cleaning head module, wherein the fan module includes a controller, wherein each of the cleaning head module and the fan module include a drive mechanism providing independent mobility of the respective modules, and wherein the controller provides control signals to the drive mechanism in the cleaning head module; and a hose connecting the cleaning head module with the fan module. 72. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 71, wherein the fan module includes a controller that performs navigation functions. 73. An autonomous vacuum cleaner, comprising: a cleaning nozzle; a fan module separated from the cleaning nozzle; and a hose connecting the cleaning nozzle with the fan module, wherein the cleaning nozzle is self-maneuverable. 74. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 73, wherein the cleaning nozzle is configured to maneuver independently of the fan module and includes a drive mechanism that provides mobility for the cleaning nozzle. 75. An autonomous vacuum cleaner, comprising: a cleaning head module; a fan module separated from the cleaning head module; and a hose connecting the cleaning head module with the fan module, wherein the cleaning head module and the fan module are configured to move independently of each other. 76. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 75, wherein each of the cleaning head module and the fan module include a drive mechanism for providing independent mobility of the respective modules. 77. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 75, wherein the fan module includes a controller that performs navigation functions. 78. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 77, wherein the controller receives sensor input data from at least one of camera, sonar, lidar or infrared sensor on the fan module. 79. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 77, wherein the controller provides control signals to a drive mechanism in the cleaning head module via a wire assembly incorporated into or run adjacent to the hose. 80. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 79, wherein the fan module provides electrical power to the cleaning head module via the wire assembly. 81. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 77, wherein the controller provides control signals to a drive mechanism in the cleaning head module via a wireless transmitter and receiver assembly. 82. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 77, wherein the cleaning head module includes one or more motors for providing power to a drive mechanism that provides mobility of the cleaning head module. 83. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 77, wherein the cleaning head module includes one or more acoustic dirt sensors, ultrasonic distance sensors, moisture sensors, mold sensor or mechanical touch sensors providing data to the controller. 84. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 77, wherein the fan module includes a power cord for connection to a power outlet. 85. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 75, wherein the cleaning head module includes a cleaning brush assembly having at least one cleaning brush. 86. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 85, wherein the cleaning head module further includes a motor to provide power to rotate the cleaning brush. 87. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 85, wherein the cleaning brush is driven by air so as to cause rotational movement. 88. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 85, wherein the cleaning brush does not rotate. 89. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 75, wherein the fan module includes a rechargeable battery. 90. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 75, wherein the fan module includes a fuel cell. 91. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 75, wherein the fan module includes an electric motor for driving a fan. 92. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 75, wherein the cleaning head module is configured to move independently of the fan module in more than one direction. 93. An autonomous vacuum cleaner, comprising: a cleaning head module; a fan module separated from the cleaning head module, wherein the fan module directly controls the cleaning head module via data communication; and a hose connecting the cleaning head module with the fan module. 94. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 93, wherein the fan module includes a controller that performs navigation functions. 95. An autonomous vacuum cleaner, comprising: a cleaning head module; a fan module separated from the cleaning module, wherein the fan module includes a controller having navigation functions, wherein the navigation functions include localization and tracking; and a hose connecting the cleaning head module with the fan module. 96. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 95, wherein the fan module includes a fan and an electric motor for driving the fan. 97. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 95, additionally comprising a power cord for connecting the fan module to a power outlet, thereby providing power to the fan module. 98. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 97, wherein the power cord is extended and retracted as the fan module moves. 99. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 97, wherein the cleaning head module includes one or more sensors providing data to the controller. 100. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 99, wherein at least one of the one or more sensors is configured to track the power cord position. 101. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 99, wherein the one or more sensors include one or more encoders, acoustic dirt sensors, ultrasonic distance sensors, moisture sensors, mold sensor or mechanical touch sensors. 102. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 95, wherein the fan module provides power to the cleaning head module via a wire assembly extending axially along the hose. 103. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 95, wherein the cleaning head module includes a cleaning brush assembly having at least one cleaning brush. 104. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 103, wherein the cleaning head module further includes a motor to provide power to rotate the cleaning brush. 105. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 103, wherein the cleaning brush is driven by air so as to cause rotational movement. 106. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 103, wherein the cleaning brush is stationary. 107. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 95, wherein the cleaning head module further includes a drive system having at least a propulsion mechanism. 108. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 107, wherein the controller sends control signals to at least one motor in the cleaning head module. 109. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 95, wherein the fan module includes a drive system having at least a propulsion mechanism and a steering mechanism to direct the motion of the fan module. 110. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 109, wherein the controller sends control signals to at least one motor in the propulsion mechanism. 111. The autonomous vacuum cleaner defined in claim 95, wherein the cleaning head module is configured to move independently of the fan module in more than one direction. 112. An autonomous vacuum cleaner system comprising: a cleaning head module; a fan module separated from the cleaning module and having an electric motor to drive a fan; a hose connecting the cleaning head module with the fan module and transferring dust from the cleaning head module to the fan module; and a controller module including a controller and providing navigation control signals to the fan module, wherein the controller module is mobile. 113. An autonomous vacuum cleaner system comprising: a cleaning head module; a fan module separated from the cleaning module and having an electric motor to drive a fan; a hose connecting the cleaning head module with the fan module and transferring dust from the cleaning head module to the fan module; and a controller module including a controller and providing navigation control signals to the fan module, wherein the controller module is configured to perform localization and tracking functions for the fan module and the cleaning head module. 