The present invention generally relates to surgical devices, systems, and methods, especially for minimally invasive surgery, and more particularly provides structures and techniques for aligning a robotic surgery system with a desired surgical site. The present invention describes techniques for mounting, configuring and arranging set-up arms for the surgical manipulators and endoscope drive mechanisms of a telesurgical system within an operating theater. The various aspects of the invention improve and optimize space utilization in the conduct of a surgical procedure, especially in the telesurgical systems which provide for concurrent operation by two surgeons using multiple robotic arm assemblies. In one aspect, the invention includes a method and apparatus for ceiling-height mounting of surgical set-up arms, and in another aspect, the invention includes a method and apparatus for the mounting of surgical setup arms to the table pedestal or floor below an operating table. The ceiling-height-mounted robotic arm assembly and below-table-mounted robotic arm assembly may be pre-configured to be ready for surgery while the fixable set-up arms are disposed generally clear of the personnel-usable space adjacent the operating table. Examples are described of separate and combined use of the ceiling mount and floor/pedestal mount aspects in both single and dual surgeon telesurgical systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgery system for performing a surgical procedure on a patient lying on an operating table within an operating room, the room having a ceiling-height support structure extending generally above the table and personnel-usable space adjacent the table, the system comprising: a mounting base; a surgical end effector; and a linkage movably supporting the end effector relative to the mounting base; wherein the mounting base is mountable upon the ceiling-height support structure so as to permit the linkage to be pre-configured to extend generally downward from the mounting base to support the end effector adjacent the patient. 2. The robotic surgery system of claim 1, wherein the mounting base is adjustably mounted to the ceiling-height support structure. 3. The robotic surgery system of claim 1, wherein the mounting base is slidably mounted to the ceiling-height support structure so as to permit repositioning in at least one dimension. 4. The robotic surgery system of claim 1, wherein the linkage comprises: a plurality of driven joints coupled to a servomechanism for moving the end effector so as to manipulate tissues; at least one pre-configuration link; and a plurality of releasably fixable joints coupled to the at least one pre-configuration link for pre-configuration the linkage, the releasably fixable joints accommodating vertical movement of the end effector relative to the mounting base. 5. The robotic surgery system of claim 4, wherein the linkage is pre-configurable to support the end effector adjacent the patient so that the at least one pre-configuration link and the plurality of releasably fixable joints of the pre-configured linkage are disposed generally clear of the personnel-usable space adjacent the operating table. 6. The robotic surgery system of claim 4, further comprising: a brake system coupled to the fixable joints, the brake system releasably inhibiting inadvertent articulation of the fixable joints previously configured in an at least substantially fixed configuration; wherein the brake system is biased toward the fixed configuration and the brake system comprises a brake release actuator for releasing the fixable joints to a manually repositionable configuration in which the fixable joints can be manually articulated. 7. The robotic surgery system of claim 6, wherein the fixable joints in the repositionable configuration articulate to accommodate manual translation of the end effector in three dimensions. 8. The robotic surgery system of claim 6, wherein the fixable joints in the repositionable configuration further articulate to accommodate manual rotation of the end effector about least one axis relative to the mounting base. 9. The robotic surgery system of claim 4, wherein the linkage comprises a plurality of fixable links and a plurality of rigid driven links, the fixable links coupled together by the fixable joints, the driven links coupled together by the driven joints, wherein the fixable links are supported by the mounting base and the driven links are supported by the fixable links. 10. The robotic surgery system of claim 9, wherein the fixable links include at least one spring balanced, fixable, jointed-parallelogram linkage structure extending between a pair of adjacent fixable rotational joints, the jointed-parallelogram structure accommodating motion in a generally vertical direction, and the adjacent rotational joints accommodating pivotal motion about vertical axes. 11. The robotic surgery system of claim 1, wherein the linkage includes a selective compliance assembly robot arm. 12. The robotic surgery system of claim 1, wherein the linkage includes a rigid shaft coupled to the end effector, and at least one of the linkage, a servomechanism, or a combination of the linkage and servomechanism acts to constrain shaft rotation about a pivot point along the shaft. 13. The robotic surgery system of claim 1, the linkage further comprising a joint sensor system coupling a plurality of joints of the linkage to a servomechanism, the sensor system generating joint configuration signals, wherein the servomechanism includes a computer and wherein the joint sensor system transmits the joint configuration signals to the computer. 14. The robotic surgery system of claim 13, wherein the computer calculates a coordinate system transformation between a reference coordinate system affixed relative to the mounting base and the end effector using the joint configuration signals. 15. The robotic surgery system of claim 14, further comprising a plurality of robotic linkages, each linkage including a plurality of joints coupled to the sensor system and supporting an associated end effector, wherein the computer calculates coordinate system transformations between the reference coordinate system and each of the end effectors using the joint configuration signals. 16. The robotic surgery system of claim 15, wherein a joint signal of at least one of the sensors of the sensor system varies with an absolute position of the joint. 17. A robotic surgery system for performing a surgical procedure on a patient lying on an operating table within an operating room, the room having a ceiling-height support structure extending generally above the table and personnel-usable space adjacent the table, the system comprising: a mounting base; a surgical end effector; and a linkage movably supporting the end effector relative to the mounting base; wherein the mounting base is adjustably mountable upon the ceiling-height support structure so as to permit the linkage to be pre-configured to extend generally downward from the mounting base to support the end effector adjacent the patient. 18. A robotic surgery system for performing a surgical procedure on a patient lying on an operating table within an operating room, the room having a ceiling-height support structure extending generally above the table and personnel-usable space adjacent the table, the system comprising: a mounting base; a surgical end effector; and a linkage movably supporting the end effector relative to the mounting base; wherein the mounting base is slidably mountable upon the ceiling-height support structure so as to permit the linkage to be pre-configured to extend generally downward from the mounting base to support the end effector adjacent the patient. 19. The robotic surgery system of claim 18, wherein the mounting base is repositionable in at least one dimension. 