A robot having a spindle is calibrated by disposing a calibration tool in the robot spindle. The position of the calibration tool is measured. An axis of the spindle is determined based on the measured position. A calibration tool center point is determined based on the measured position. A robot tool rotation axis is determined based on the determined spindle axis, robot tool center point, the determined calibration tool center point, and difference in length between the calibration tool and a robot tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of calibrating a robot having a rotable spindle for holding a tool, the method comprising: disposing a calibration tool in said spindle; measuring a plurality of positions associated with said calibration tool; determining a rotation axis of said spindle based on said plurality of positions; ascertaining a calibration tool center point based on said plurality positions; computing a robot tool rotation axis and tool center point based on said determining a rotation axis; said calibration tool center point, and a difference in length between said calibration tool and a robot tool. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said calibration tool is cylindrical and configured to be substantially coaxial with said rotable spindle. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said measuring comprises a plurality of positions on a top surface of said calibration tool. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said determining a rotation axis comprises an average of a plurality normals associated with a plurality of planes associated with said top surface of said calibration tool. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein said measuring comprises a plurality of positions on a side surface of said calibration tool. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said ascertaining a calibration tool center point comprises a combination of a plurality of center points based on said plurality of positions on said side surface of said calibration tool. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said measuring further comprises rotating said spindle to another angle and repeating said measuring. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said computing comprises an intersection of said determined rotation axis of said spindle and said calibration tool center point. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said calibration tool is at least one of: cylindrical, disc, spherical, conical, tubular and configured to be substantially coaxial with said rotable spindle. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said calibration tool is conical and configured to be substantially coaxial with said rotable spindle and said measuring includes employing a coordinate measurement machine including position sensing and a conical probe configured to substantially mate with said calibration tool. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said measuring includes measurements made with at least one of: contact sensors, displacement sensors, one dimensional coordinate measuring machines, two dimensional coordinate measurement machines, three dimensional coordinate measurement machines, and non-contacting sensors. 12. A system for calibrating a robot having a rotable spindle for holding a tool, the system comprising: a calibration tool disposed in said spindle of said robot; a measurement probe disposed at a known location within attainable distance of said robot with said calibration tool; a controller for implementing a measurement process comprising: measuring a plurality of positions associated with said calibration tool; determining a rotation axis of said spindle based on said plurality of positions; ascertaining a calibration tool center point based on said plurality positions; computing a robot tool rotation axis and tool center point based on said determining a rotation axis, said calibration tool center point, and a difference in length between said calibration tool and a robot tool. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein said calibration tool is cylindrical and configured to be substantially coaxial with said rotable spindle. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein said measuring comprises a plurality of positions on a top surface of said calibration tool. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein said rotation axis is determined as an average of a plurality normals associated with a plurality of planes associated with said top surface of said calibration tool. 16. The system of claim 13 wherein said plurality of positions comprises measurements on a side surface of said calibration tool. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein said calibration tool center point is ascertained as a combination of a plurality of center points based on said plurality of positions on said side surface of said calibration tool. 18. The system of claim 12 wherein said measurement process further comprises rotating said spindle to another angle and repeating said measuring. 19. The system of claim 12 wherein said robot tool rotation axis is computed based on an intersection of said determined rotation axis of said spindle and said calibration tool center point. 20. The system of claim 12 wherein said calibration tool is at least one of: cylindrical, disc, spherical, conical, tubular and configured to be substantially coaxial with said rotable spindle. 21. The system of claim 12 wherein said calibration tool is conical and configured to be substantially coaxial with said spindle and said measuring includes employing a coordinate measurement machine including position sensing and a conical probe configured to substantially mate with said calibration tool. 22. The system of claim 12 wherein said measurement probe includes at least one of: a contact sensor, a displacement sensors, a one dimensional coordinate measuring machine, a two dimensional coordinate measurement machine, a three dimensional coordinate measurement machine, and a non-contacting sensor. 