Systems and methods involving monopropellant and hypergolic powered proportional actuators that may be used in applications such as robotics. A blowdown tank delivers fuel to a reaction site, produce gaseous products. Those gaseous products are transported to a pressure reservoir or directly to the actuator. The gaseous products are controllably introduced into the actuator to actuate a piston. The piston may be used to power a host of devices including robots.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A centralized monopropellant actuator system, comprising: a blowdown fuel tank having a first section that is pre-pressurized with inert gas and a second section that contains a monopropellant; a pressure reservoir coupled to the second section of the blowdown fuel tank; a centralized catalyst pack coupled to the second section of the blowdown fuel tank and configured to release gaseous products into the pressure reservoir; a multi-chamber piston actuator coupled to the pressure reservoir; and two or more valves coupled to the actuator and configured to control the flow of the gaseous products into chambers of the actuator to create controllable forces upon the piston. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the monopropellant comprises hydrogen peroxide. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the monopropellant comprises hydroxyl ammonium nitrate. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the inert gas comprises nitrogen. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising one or more fuel valves coupled to the blowdown fuel tank and pressure reservoir, the one or more fuel valves being automatically controllable according to the pressure of the blowdown fuel tank and the pressure of the pressure reservoir. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the centralized catalyst pack comprises pellets coated or plated with a catalyzing agent. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the centralized catalyst pack is external to the pressure reservoir. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the centralized catalyst pack is inside the pressure reservoir. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the two or more valves comprises two inlet valves coupled to two inlet ports of the actuator and two exhaust valves coupled to two exhaust ports of the actuator. 10. An untethered mobile robot comprising the centralized monopropellant actuator system of claim 1. 11. A method for creating controllable forces upon an actuator comprising use of the centralized monopropellant actuator system of claim 1. 12. A distributed monopropellant actuator system, comprising: a blowdown fuel tank having a first section that is pre-pressurized with inert gas and a second section that contains a monopropellant; a multi-chamber piston actuator coupled to the blowdown fuel tank by two or more fuel valves; and two or more distributed catalyst packs coupled to the two or more fuel valves and configured to release gaseous products into chambers of the actuator to create controllable forces upon the piston. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the monopropellant comprises hydrogen peroxide. 14. The system of claim 12, wherein the monopropellant comprises hydroxyl ammonium nitrate. 15. The system of claim 12, wherein the inert gas comprises nitrogen. 16. The system of claim 12, wherein the distributed catalyst packs comprise pellets coated or plated with a catalyzing agent. 17. The system of claim 12, wherein the distributed catalyst packs are integrated into the actuator. 18. The system of claim 12, wherein the distributed catalyst packs are external to the actuator. 19. The system of claim 12, further comprising two exhaust valves coupled to two exhaust ports of the actuator. 20. An untethered mobile robot comprising the distributed monopropellant actuator system of claim 12. 21. A method for creating controllable forces upon an actuator comprising use of the distributed monopropellant actuator system of claim 12. 22. A centralized hypergolic bipropellant actuator system, comprising: a blowdown fuel tank having a first section that is pre-pressurized with inert gas and a second section that contains a fuel; a blowdown oxidizer tank having a first section that is pre-pressurized with inert gas and a second section that contains an oxidizer; a pressure reservoir coupled to each blowdown tank and configured to accept gaseous products from a controlled reaction of the fuel and oxidizer; a multi-chamber piston actuator coupled to the pressure reservoir; and four or more valves coupled to the actuator and configured to control the flow of the gaseous products into chambers of the actuator to create controllable forces upon the piston. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the inert gas comprises nitrogen. 24. The system of claim 22, wherein the four or more valves comprises four inlet valves coupled to two inlet ports of the actuator and two exhaust valves coupled to two exhaust ports of the actuator. 25. An untethered mobile robot comprising the centralized hypergolic bipropellant actuator system of claim 22. 26. A method for creating controllable forces upon an actuator comprising use of the centralized hypergolic bipropellant actuator system of claim 22. 27. A distributed hypergolic bipropellant actuator system, comprising: a blowdown fuel tank having a first section that is pre-pressurized with inert gas and a second section that contains a fuel; a blowdown oxidizer tank having a first section that is pre-pressurized with inert gas and a second section that contains an oxidizer; a multi-chamber piston actuator coupled to each blowdown tank by four or more fuel valves, the valves configured to controllably mix and react the fuel and oxidizer to release gaseous products into chambers of the actuator to create controllable forces upon the piston. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the inert gas comprises nitrogen. 29. The system of claim 27, further comprising two exhaust valves coupled to two exhaust ports of the actuator. 30. An untethered mobile robot comprising the distributed hypergolic bipropellant actuator system of claim 27. 31. A method for creating controllable forces upon an actuator comprising use of the distributed hypergolic bipropellant actuator system of claim 27. 