A testing system useful for food products employs a multispecies testing array to test for presence or amount of a plurality of organisms in a sample by detecting plural characteristic sequences for each of plural organisms to form a multispecies distribution output or microbial profile, and this is processed or used in conjunction with data mining or other processing to provide trend, warning or other data. The processor correlates and stores information relating to taste, smell, texture, processing conditions, quality or source of a component or ingredient, potential pathogenicity or other factor, with correlations on a multidimensional space yielding new preconditions or warning indications, and providing a mechanism for specialization of the species distribution data for specific products, as well as for incorporation or development of process changes and company trade secrets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of food product testing, such method including the steps of selecting a sample of a food product having at least one known organoleptic property; preparing the sample for assay; assaying the sample to generate a microbial profile, wherein the assay comprises the step of hybridizing genomic material in the sample to a probe matrix having nucleic acid obtained from a plurality of target species of microorganisms; forming an output distribution representative of the microbial profile of the sample; storing the output distribution in a database; storing data defining a sample profile representative of the at least one known organoleptic property of the sample in the database; and correlating the output distribution with the at least one known organoleptic property, such that the presence of the at least one known organoleptic property can be predicted in another sample of the food product by comparing its microbial profile to the database. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of preparing includes the step of culturing the food sample to increase populations of a plurality of the target species prior to testing with the probe matrix. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of preparing includes the steps of extracting nucleic acid from target organisms, and labeling and amplification of gene regions prior to detection with the probe array. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the step of labeling is performed after the step of amplification. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the step of amplification is performed by automated fluidics and incubation to produce output material for detection by the probe matrix. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps of preparing and assaying further comprise utilizing an automated sample preparation and array testing system. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of preparing the sample includes the steps of recovering a plurality of different microorganisms from the food sample, extracting nucleic acids from the plural different microorganisms, and simultaneously amplifying plural target sequences present in the recovered nucleic acids for each of said different microorganisms. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of storing in the database data of at least one type selected from among (i) other output distributions, (ii) parameters related to the source, condition or processing of food in the sample from which the output distribution was taken, and (iii) parameters related to the source, condition or processing of food in the sample from which other output distributions were taken. 9. A testing method for food quality and processing comprising the steps of selecting a sample of a food product having at least one known organoleptic property; preparing an array having a plurality of probes, each probe being directed to multiple gene sequences from a plurality of different target species of organisms; preparing a sample of the food product, wherein the step of preparing a sample includes extracting nucleic acids from the sample; amplifying the extracted nucleic acids such that target sequences are preferentially amplified; hybridizing the amplified nucleic acids to the probes on the array; forming an output distribution representative of the plurality of target species of organisms present in the sample; storing the output distribution and information related to the at least one known organoleptic property of the sample in a database; and correlating the output distribution with the at least one known organoleptic property such that the presence of the at least one known organoleptic property can be predicted in another sample of the food product by comparing its output distribution to the database. 10. The testing method of claim 9, wherein the species are foodborne species affecting food quality. 11. The testing method of claim 9, wherein the target sequences include species sequences coding for factors involved in pathogenesis or virulence factors. 12. The testing method of claim 9, wherein the target sequences are species sequences selected for efficient amplification as a group. 13. The testing method of claim 9, wherein the array tests for a palette of species selected from among product colonizing species, environment colonizing species, and mammalian colonizing species. 14. The testing method of claim 9, further comprising the step of displaying the output distribution with a note describing adverse consequences or process warning indications associated with the detected distribution. 15. The testing method of claim 9, wherein the target sequences are species sequences selected for probe hybridization and detection as a group. 16. The testing method of claim 9, further including the steps of determining sensitivity and cross reactivity of the array. 17. The testing method of claim 9, wherein the output distribution indicates the quantity of each target species present in the sample. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one known organoleptic property is selected from the group consisting of smell, texture, and taste. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises correlating the output distribution with processing conditions. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein processing conditions are selected from the group consisting of the source of a component, flavor potential, and shelf-life. 21. The testing method of claim 9, wherein the at least one known organoleptic property is selected from the group consisting of smell, texture, and taste. 22. The testing method of claim 9, wherein the method further comprises correlating the output distribution with processing conditions. 23. The testing method of claim 22, wherein processing conditions are selected from the group consisting of the source of a component, flavor potential, and shelf-life. 