An apparatus for providing a tactile stimulus to a part of the body of a physical operator when a virtual operator, created by movements of the physical operator, encounters a virtual object defined by a computer. A signalling unit communicates with the computer and emits a signal when the virtual operator encounters a virtual object. A stimulus unit responsive to the signalling unit is disposed in close proximity to a part of the body of the physical operator for providing a tactile stimulus when the virtual operator encounters a virtual object. The stimulus unit may comprise a segment of memory metal which undergoes a martensitic transformation to a different form or a solenoid having a member which moves in response to a signal emitted by the signalling unit. A vibrating member, such as a piezoceramic bender may be used instead of or in addition to the solenoid or memory metal.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for providing a stimulus to a human operator, the apparatus for use in a virtually reality system in which a part of the body of the human operator is depicted as a virtual body part in a visual display, the apparatus comprising: a position sensing subsystem configured to track a position of the part of the body of the human operator; a signaling unit coupled to the position sensing subsystem and configured to provide an indication in response to the virtual body part contacting a virtual object; and a vibrating member for providing a tactile stimulus as the part of the body of the human operator in response to the indication from the signaling unit. 2. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the vibrating member comprises a piezoceramic bender. 3. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, further comprising a glove to be worn by the human operator, wherein the piezoelectric bender is attached to the glove. 4. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, further comprising a glove to be worn by the human operator, wherein the glove includes an inner layer and an outer layer, and wherein at least a portion of the piezoceramic bender is disposed between the inner layer and the outer layer of the glove. 5. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein the piezoceramic bender is disposed in close proximity to a part of the body of the human operator; and wherein the piezoceramic bender is coupled to a signal generator, wherein the signal generator is operable to produce, depending upon the indication from the signaling unit, a signal that causes the piezoceramic bender to vibrate, whereby a vibration of the piezoceramic bender imparts a tactile stimulus to the human operator. 6. The apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein the signal generator comprises an operational amplifier coupled to selectively control a flow of current through the piezoceramic bender depending upon the indication from the signaling unit, and wherein the signal generator provides a periodic signal to the operational amplifier when the virtual operator contacts the virtual object. 7. The apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein the piezoceramic bender is positioned on a fabric to be placed in close proximity to a part of the body of the human operator. 8. The apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein the piezoceramic bender is positioned on the fabric such that the piezoceramic bender couples to a part of the body of the human operator when the fabric is worn by the human operator. 9. The apparatus as recited in claim 8, wherein the part of the body coupled by the piezoceramic bender is a finger. 10. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein the piezoceramic bender is disposed on the underside of the finger. 11. An apparatus for interacting with a virtual object represented within a display, the apparatus comprising: a glove adapted to be worn on a part of a user's body; a processing system configured to generate a virtual representation of the part of the user's body on the display; a position sensor coupled to the processing system, wherein the position sensor is configured to detect a position of the part of the user's body; a signaling unit configured to provide an indication in response to the virtual representation of the part of the user's body contacting the virtual object within the display; and a piezoceramic bender configured to provide a tactile stimulus to the part of the user's body depending upon the indication from the signaling unit. 12. The apparatus as recited in claim 11, wherein the position sensor includes a transmitter and a receiver, wherein the transmitter conveys a wireless transmission to the receiver, and wherein the position sensor is configured to determine the position of the glove depending upon the wireless transmission. 13. The apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein the transmitter is an ultrasonic transmitter. 14. The apparatus as recited in claim 11, wherein the piezoceramic bender is disposed in close proximity to a part of the body of the human operator, and wherein the piezoceramic bender is coupled to a signal generator, wherein the signal generator is operable to produce, depending upon the indication from the signaling unit, a signal to cause the piezoceramic bender to vibrate, whereby a vibration of the piezoceramic bender imparts a tactile stimulus to the human operator. 15. The apparatus as recited in claim 11, wherein the glove includes an inner layer and an outer layer, and wherein at least a portion of the piezoceramic bender is disposed between the inner layer and the outer layer of the glove. 16. An apparatus for interacting with a virtual object represented within a display, the apparatus comprising: a processing system configured to generate a virtual representation of a part of a user's body on the display; a position sensor coupled to the processing system, wherein the position sensor is configured to detect a position of the part of the user's body; a signaling unit configured to provide an indication in response to the virtual representation of the part of the user's body contacting the virtual object within the display; and a piezoceramic bender configured to provide a stimulus to the part of the user's body depending upon the indication from the signaling unit. 17. An apparatus for use with a virtual reality system including a display, the apparatus comprising: a glove adapted to be worn on a body part of a user; a processing system configured to generate a representation of the body part on the display; a position sensor coupled to the processing system, wherein the position sensor is configured to detect a position of the body part; a piezoceramic bender attached to the glove, wherein the piezoceramic bender is configured to provide a tactile stimulus to the user in response to the representation of the body part visually contacting a representation of an object depicted on the display. 18. The apparatus as recited in claim 17, further comprising a flex sensor attached to the glove, wherein the flex sensor generates a signal indicative of a flexing of the part of the user's body. 19. A method for providing a stimulus to a part of a body of a human operator using a virtual reality system in which the part of the body of the human operator is depicted as a virtual body part in a visual display, the method comprising: sensing a position of the part of the body of the human operator; displaying said virtual body part in said visual display; producing an indication in response to the virtual body part contacting a virtual object; and activating a piezoceramic bender in response to the indication to provide a tactile stimulus to the human operator. 20. The method as recited in claim 19, further comprising the human operator wearing a glove including the piezoceramic bender which provides the tactile stimulus. 