A multiple degree-of-freedom ultra-precision (DOF) robotic system yielding either rigid body guidance or large deformation analysis (LDRS, i.e. semi-flexible and flexible robotics) is developed based on the technology of integrating a multiple DOF ultra-precision shadow robotic measurement system with a multiple DOF robot for form a closed-loop linkage chain to establish a corresponding closed-loop feedback control of end-effecter of said robotic system without the use and limitation of any target or artificial marker in work-cell as the reference. In this way, the major degrading problems that greatly drag down the positioning accuracy of a robot have been fairly resolved. The embodiment conducts the details of the development of such a multiple DOF ultra-precision robotic system for the general applications in precision engineering.
Claims Having presented my invention, I claim: 1. A multiple degree-of-freedom (DOF) ultra-precision shadow robotic measurement system consists of linkages, kinematic joints, and sensors that are mated with the said kinematic joints to form a passive servo-measurement system to monitor the position of an object with its own end-effecter through a connection-point, within which the said position includes the frame origin position and frame orientation of the object, and the said multiple DOF means that the DOF is larger or equal to any combination of 3-DOF associated with the X, Y, Z, Pitch, Roll, and Yaw directions in the 6-DOF robotic working domain. 2. The said multiple DOF ultra-precision shadow robotic measurement system according to claim 1 wherein the said kinematic joints can be either revolute joints or prismatic joints. 3. The said kinematic joints according to claim 2 wherein the said revolute joints are mated with proper rotary measurement sensors to monitor and to record the angular displacement of the said revolute joints. 4. The said kinematic joints according to claim 2 wherein the said prismatic joints are mated with proper linear measurement sensors to monitor and to record the linear displacement of the said prismatic joints. 5. A multiple degree-of-freedom (DOF) ultra-precision robotic system comprises a multiple DOF ultra-precision shadow robotic measurement system and a multiple DOF robot, within which the said multiple DOF means that the DOF is larger or equal to any combination of 3-DOF associated with the X, Y, Z, Pitch, Roll, and Yaw directions in 6-DOF robotic working domain; whereby the said multiple DOF shadow robotic measurement system and said multiple DOF robot is integrated to form a closed-loop linkage chain to establish a corresponding closed-loop feedback control of the said robotic system. 6. The multiple DOF ultra-precision robotic system according to claim 5 wherein said closed-loop control is established associated with the said closed-loop linkage chain of the robotic system, which detects the position error between the real-time position and the designated ideal position of the end-effecter of said multiple DOF robot in a working process with the said multiple DOF ultra-precision shadow robotic measurement system, and then corrects the measured positioning error of the end-effecter of said multiple DOF robot step by step to approach the designated ideal position of said robotic system with ultra-precision positioning accuracy without the use of any target or artificial marker in the work-cell as the reference, within which the said position includes the frame origin position and frame orientation of the end-effecter corresponding to the X, Y, Z, Pitch, Roll, and Yaw directions in the 6-DOF robotic working domain. 7. The multiple DOF ultra-precision robotic system according to claim 5 wherein the said multiple DOF robot is either a multiple DOF robot under rigid body guidance or a multiple DOF robot with large deformation analysis (LDRS, i.e. a semi-flexible or a flexible robot). 