An apparatus and method for supplying multi-color powder paint material to an applicator in which at least one canister is used. This invention can be utilized with multiple or with a single color of powder paint material. The preferred system includes two canisters that alternate in supplying powder to the applicator. While one canister supplies powder to the applicator, the other canister is purged of the previous material and filled with the next material to be sprayed. The canister has an interior sized to store a predetermined quantity of powder material. During operation, a powder transfer pump and a color changer transfer powder material from a storage container/hopper to the canister interior. A venturi pump then supplies the applicator with powder. After the object is painted, purge air is opened and the canister is purged of the previous material. The canister is then ready to start another cycle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for supplying at least two different colors of powder paint material to an applicator in a powder paint delivery system, comprising: a first storage container for storing a first color powder paint material and a second storage container for storing a second color powder paint material, each of said first and second storage containers having at least one outlet for discharging powder paint material; a color changer having at least two inlets and an outlet; a powder material transfer means connected between each of said at least one outlet of said storage containers and a respective one of said at least two inlets of said color changer for transferring powder paint material to said color changer; and a canister having an inlet connected to said color changer outlet and an outlet adapted to be connected to a powder paint material applicator, said canister having an interior sized to store a predetermined quantity of powder paint material and having means for purging powder paint material of one color from said interior before being filled with a powder paint material of a different color. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said powder material transfer means is one of a venturi pump system and a dense phase transfer system. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein means for purging powder paint material is a pressurized air inlet and a dump line connected to said canister. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said canister includes a means for fluidizing the powder paint material disposed therein. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said means for fluidizing the powder paint material is a fluidization air inlet connected to said canister and a porous plate disposed in said canister. 6. A method for supplying different colors of powder paint material to an applicator comprising the steps of: a. providing a first storage container for storing a first color powder paint material and a second storage container for storing a second color powder paint material, each of the first and second storage containers having at least one outlet for discharging powder paint material; b. providing a color changer having at least two inlets and an outlet; c. providing a powder transfer means connected between each of the at least one outlet of the storage containers and a respective one of the at least two inlets of the color changer; d. providing a canister having an inlet connected to the color changer outlet and an outlet adapted to be connected to a powder paint material applicator, the canister having an interior sized to store a predetermined quantity of powder paint material and having means for purging powder paint material of one color from the interior before being filled with a powder paint material of a different color; e. operating the powder transfer means and the color changer to transfer powder paint material from a selected one of the storage containers to the canister interior; and f. prior to changing to a different color powder paint material, operating the means for purging to purge any powder paint material from the canister interior before performing said step e. 