A tool holster resiliently engages with a tool upon its insertion with the holster. Positive retention is obtained by rotating a threaded shaft to advance a cam to rotate levers to engage the tool. The lever arms are split to allow a degree of misalignment. Springs bias the arms towards engagement of the tool. This provides an initial resilient entrapment of the tool. Advancement of the threaded shaft causes the cam to close-up the misalignment in the lever arm portions until your removable retention of the total is cheap, a "hard dock". This final positive retention may contain a small amount of sprung resilience to allow for some overload protection of the mechanism and tool due to an external disturbance (example robot runaway) before rigid retention is engaged.
Claims The Embodiments of the Invention in which an Exclusive Property or Privilege is Claimed are Defined as Follows: 1. A tool holster comprising: a) a containment cavity within a storage case with an opening to receive a portion of a tool to be stored at a tool storage location, the tool having an engagement surface by which it may be retained once inserted into the cavity; b) engagement means for retaining the tool by contact with the engagement surface on the tool, the engagement means including a pivoting lever arm means positioned to act as a first class lever about a pivot point, such arm means having a tool-engaging end proximate the tool storage location on one side of the pivot point and a cam-engaging actuating end on the other side of the pivot point; c) a cam actuated to travel along a path that will cause the cam to bear against the actuating end of the lever arm means; d) a threaded shaft threadably engaged with the storage case and connected to the cam for actuation of the cam; and e) a thread-driver coupling on the threaded shaft at a location within the cavity to receive a thread driver provided by a tool to be inserted into the holster whereby, upon actuation of the cam, the tool-engaging end of the lever arm means will be brought to bear against the engagement surface on the tool and effect retention of the tool within the cavity. 2. A tool holster as in claim 1 comprising a rotary actuation means coupled to the threaded shaft to rotate the threaded shaft. 3. A tool holster as in claim 1 comprising tool-engagement resilient means positioned to bias the tool-engaging end of the lever pivoting arm means into resilient contact with the engagement surface on the tool when the tool is inserted into the cavity with the cam positioned to permit a soft docking engagement. 4. A tool holster as in claim 3 wherein the tool-engaging end of the pivot arm is fitted with a roller for bearing on the tool engagement surface. 5. A tool holster as in claim 4 wherein the cam-engaging end of the pivot arm is fitted with a roller for bearing on the cam surface. 6. A tool holster as in claim 5 comprising cam-engagement resilient means positioned to bias the cam engaging end of the lever pivoting arm means into resilient contact with the cam. 7. A tool holster as in claim 6 having two symmetrically mounted pairs of said pivoting lever arm means and pivot points deployed about the containment cavity. 8. A tool holster as in claim 7 having two symmetrically mounted pairs of said tool-engagement resilient means deployed about the containment cavity. 9. A tool holster as in claim 8 wherein the pivoting lever arm means is divided into two legs, a tool-engaging leg and a cam-engaging leg, to allow a limited degree of independent rotary freedom for both legs of the arm means on opposed sides of the pivot point, permitting sufficient freedom of rotary motion of the tool-engaging leg to allow the soft docking of the tool with the cam positioned for soft docking. 10. A tool holster as in claim 9 wherein the range of independent rotary freedom between said a legs permits the tool to penetrate the cavity to the docking position with said soft docking effect, but also permits hard docking engagement of the tool upon advancement of the cam to close-off the range of permitted rotary freedom between said respective legs, whereby the tool is firmly retained by the tool-engaging end of the pivot lever arm means in a hard docking. 11. A tool holster as in claim 10 wherein each leg of the lever arm means comprises flange contact means positioned to oppose each other, allowing each leg only a limited degree of independent rotary freedom about the pivot point with respect to the other leg, with a degree of permitted rotation to provide freedom for said tool to be inserted into said cavity with said soft docking engagement, but limiting the extent of relative rotary motion of respective legs of the lever arm means to permit subsequent hard docking engagement of the tool. 12. A tool holster as in claim 9 comprising a threaded shaft threadably engaged with the storage case and connected to the cam for actuation of the cam. 13. A tool holster as in claim 12 comprising a thread-driver coupling on the threaded shaft at a location within the cavity to receive a thread driver provided by a tool to be inserted into the holster. 14. A tool holster as in claim 12 comprising a rotary actuation means coupled to the threaded shaft to rotate the threaded shaft. 15. A tool holster comprising: a) a containment cavity within a storage case with an opening to receive a portion of a tool to be stored at a tool storage location, the tool having an engagement surface by which it may be retained once inserted into the cavity; b) engagement means for retaining the tool by contact with the engagement surface on the tool, the engagement means including a pivoting lever arm means positioned to act as a first class lever about a pivot point, such arm means having a tool-engaging end proximate the tool storage location on one side of the pivot point and a cam-engaging actuating end on the other side of the pivot point, the tool-engaging end being fitted with a roller for bearing on the tool engagement surface; c) a cam actuated to travel along a path that will cause the cam to bear against the actuating end of the lever arm means; and d) tool-engagement resilient means positioned to bias the tool-engaging end of the lever pivoting arm means into resilient contact with the engagement surface on the tool when the tool is inserted into the cavity with the cam positioned to permit a soft docking engagement. 16. A tool holster as in claim 15 wherein the cam engaging end of the pivot arm is fitted with a roller for bearing on the cam surface. 17. A tool holster as in claim 16 comprising cam-engagement resilient means positioned to bias, the cam-engaging end of the lever pivoting arm means into resilient contact with the cam. 18. A tool holster as in claim 17 having two symmetrically mounted pairs of said pivoting lever arm means and pivot points deployed about the containment cavity. 19. A tool holster as in claim 18 having two symmetrically mounted pairs of said tool-engagement resilient means deployed about the containment cavity. 20. A tool holster as in claim 19 wherein the pivoting lever arm means is divided into two legs, a tool-engaging leg and a cam-engaging leg, to allow a limited degree of independent rotary freedom for both legs of the arm means on opposed sides of the pivot point, permitting sufficient freedom of rotary motion of the tool-engaging leg to allow the soft docking of the tool with the cam positioned for soft docking. 21. A tool holster as in claim 20 wherein the range of independent rotary freedom between said, a legs permits the tool to penetrate the cavity to the docking position with said soft docking effect, but also permits hard docking engagement of the tool upon advancement of the cam to close-off the range of permitted rotary freedom between said respective legs, whereby the tool is firmly retained by the tool-engaging end of the pivot lever arm means in a hard docking. 22. A tool holster as in claim 21 wherein each leg of the lever arm means comprises flange contact means positioned to oppose each other, allowing each leg only a limited degree of independent rotary freedom about the pivot point with respect to the other leg, with a degree of permitted rotation to provide freedom for said tool to be inserted into said cavity with said soft docking engagement, but limiting the extent of relative rotary motion of respective legs of the lever arm means to permit subsequent hard docking engagement of the tool. 23. A tool holster as in claim 20 comprising a threaded shaft threadably engaged with the storage case and connected to the cam for actuation of the cam. 24. A tool holster as in claim 23 comprising a thread-driver coupling on the threaded shaft at a location within the cavity to receive a thread driver provided by a tool to be inserted into the holster. 25. A tool holster as in claim 23 comprising a rotary actuation means coupled to the threaded shaft to rotate the threaded shaft. 