A method for controlling a mechanism through the use of higher-dimensional n-curves is disclosed. An electronically-controlled mechanism is provided. Electronic communication is established between a computer and the electronically-controlled mechanism. A controller is running or executing on the computer to send mechanism commands to the electronically-controlled mechanism. Process control software is used to control the electronically-controlled mechanism. The process control software uses higher-dimensional n-curves to control the electronically-controlled mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling a mechanism through the use of higher-dimensional n-curves, comprising: providing an electronically-controlled mechanism; establishing electronic communication by a computer with the electronically-controlled mechanism; executing a controller on the computer to send mechanism commands to the electronically-controlled mechanism; and executing process control software to control the electronically-controlled mechanism, wherein the process control software uses a higher-dimensional n-curve to control the electronically-controlled mechanism, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve comprises a representation of the variation of a plurality of parameters associated with the electronically-controlled mechanism, and wherein the variation of the plurality of parameters is expressed in terms of an extent parameter that defines a boundary of the curve. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes mechanism position. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes mechanism orientation. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes welding voltage. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes glue rate. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes laser intensity. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes focal length. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes spindle speed. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes feed rate. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes Cartesian motion. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes orientation motion. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes speed. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve include subdivision, B-spline, non-uniform rational B-spline and Bezier mathematics. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronically-controlled mechanism comprises a tool. 15. A method for direct control of a mechanism through the use of higher-dimensional n-curves, comprising: providing an electronically-controlled mechanism; establishing electronic communication by a computer with the electronically-controlled mechanism; executing a controller on the computer to send mechanism commands to the electronically-controlled mechanism; and executing process control software to control the electronically-controlled mechanism, wherein the process control software uses a higher-dimensional n-curve to control the electronically-controlled mechanism, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve comprises a representation of the variation of a plurality of parameters associated with the electronically-controlled mechanism, wherein the variation of the plurality of nanometers is expressed in terms of an extent parameter that defines a boundary of the curve, and wherein the process control software generates commands that are directly usable by the controller. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes mechanism position. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes mechanism orientation. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes welding voltage. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes glue rate. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes laser intensity. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes focal length. 22. The method of claim 15, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes spindle speed. 23. The method of claim 15, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes feed rate. 24. The method of claim 15, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes Cartesian motion. 25. The method of claim 15, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes orientation motion. 26. The method of claim 15, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes speed. 27. The method of claim 15, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve include subdivision, B-spline, non-uniform rational B-spline and Bezier mathematics. 28. The method of claim 15, wherein the electronically-controlled mechanism comprises a tool. 29. The method of claim 15, wherein the process control software uses one complex n-curve. 30. The method of claim 15, wherein the process control software uses any combination of complex n-curves. 31. A system for controlling a mechanism through the use of higher-dimensional n-curves, comprising: an electronically controlled mechanism; a computer in electronic communication with the electronically-controlled mechanism, the computer comprising: a processor; memory in electronic communication with the processor; process control software to control the electronically-controlled mechanism, wherein the process control software uses a higher-dimensional n-curve to control the electronically-controlled mechanism, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve comprises a representation of the variation of a plurality of parameters associated with the electronically-controlled mechanism, and wherein the variation of the plurality of parameters is expressed in terms of an extent parameter that defines a boundary of the curve. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes mechanism position. 33. The system of claim 31, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes mechanism orientation. 34. The system of claim 31, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes welding voltage. 35. The system of claim 31, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes glue rate. 36. The system of claim 31, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes laser intensity. 37. The system of claim 31, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes focal length. 38. The system of claim 31, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes spindle speed. 39. The system of claim 31, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes feed rate. 40. The system of claim 31, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes Cartesian motion. 41. The system of claim 31, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes orientation motion. 42. The system of claim 31, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes speed. 43. The system of claim 31, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve include subdivision, B-spline, non-uniform rational B-spline and Bezier mathematics. 44. The system of claim 31, wherein the electronically-controlled mechanism comprises a tool. 45. A system for direct control of a mechanism through the use of higher-dimensional n-curves, comprising: an electronically controlled mechanism; a computer in electronic communication with the electronically-controlled mechanism, the computer comprising: a processor; memory in electronic communication with the processor; process control software to control the electronically-controlled mechanism, wherein the process control software uses a higher-dimensional n-curve to control the electronically-controlled mechanism, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve comprises a representation of the variation of a plurality of parameters associated with the electronically-controlled mechanism, wherein the variation of the naturality of parameters is expressed in terms of an extent parameter that defines a boundary of the curve, and wherein the process control software generates commands that are directly usable by the controller. 46. The system of claim 45, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes mechanism position. 47. The system of claim 45, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes mechanism orientation. 48. The system of claim 45, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes welding voltage. 49. The system of claim 45, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes glue rate. 50. The system of claim 45, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes laser intensity. 51. The system of claim 45, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes focal length. 52. The system of claim 45, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes spindle speed. 53. The system of claim 45, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes feed rate. 54. The system of claim 45, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes Cartesian motion. 55. The system of claim 45, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes orientation motion. 56. The system of claim 45, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve describes speed. 57. The system of claim 45, wherein the higher-dimensional n-curve include subdivision, B-spline, non-uniform rational B-spline and Bezier mathematics. 58. The system of claim 45, wherein the electronically-controlled mechanism comprises a tool. 59. The system of claim 45, wherein the process control software uses one complex n-curve. 60. The system of claim 45, wherein the process control software uses any combination of complex n-curves. 