A load lock is provided for a semiconductor substrate processing system having a transport robot mounted therein. The load lock transport supplies substrates directly to a processing chamber without the need for a central transport robot. The load lock transport is a dual element robot designed for minimum clearance and space and operates within a matching load lock chamber of minimum volume.
Claims I claim: 1. A load lock system constructed to supply semiconductor substrates to a process chamber according to a predetermined sequence, said process chamber processing said substrate in a process cycle, said load lock system comprising: a housing having a load lock chamber constructed therein, said load lock chamber being connected to said process chamber by a process port and being connected to a substrate storage module by a delivery port; a first valve for opening and closing said process port according to said predetermined sequence; a second valve for opening and closing said delivery port according to said predetermined sequence; a pump for pumping said load lock chamber to a vacuum when said first and second valves are closed; a transport, mounted in the load lock chamber, constructed to move substrates into said process chamber for processing, said transport having an articulated arm of two substantially unarticulated links pivotally joined to each other, a first of the two links being pivotally mounted to the housing of the load lock chamber at one end of said arm for pivotal motion of the first link relative to the housing about a first axis, a second of the two links being an end effector capable of holding a substrate at another end of said arm; a process controller connected to said process chamber, first and second valves and said transport mechanism for controlling the operation thereof in said predetermined sequence. 2. A load lock system as described in claim 1, wherein the transport has a drive mechanism comprising a coaxial drive for driving the two links. 3. A load lock system as described in claim 1, wherein said arm is controlled to move said other end in a pick up trajectory and a drop off trajectory, said trajectories being parallel and displaced from each other in at least one plane transverse to the first axis. 4. A load lock system as described in claim 3, wherein said process port is parallel to and displaced, at least in a horizontal plane from said delivery port and said trajectories are positioned to allow said transport to operatively extend and service both of said ports. 5. A load lock system as described in claim 1, wherein the substrate storage module is a front end module constructed to deliver and remove unprocessed and processed substrates from said load lock. 6. A load lock system as described in claim 5, wherein at least a pair of buffer shelves are constructed in the load lock chamber adjacent to said delivery port and wherein said front end module is constructed to pickup and drop off substrates on said buffer shelves. 7. A load lock system as described in claim 6, wherein the arm is controlled to move the other end in a pick up trajectory, wherein the other end moves to one of said buffer shelves to acquire a substrate for processing. 8. A load lock as described in claim 6, wherein after said processing is complete, said other end is moved by said controller along a drop off trajectory into said process chamber to acquire a processed substrate, whereupon the controller reverses movement of the other end through drop off and pickup trajectories to store the processed substrate in one of said buffer shelves. 9. A load lock system as described in claim 3, wherein the load lock chamber is constructed to define a minimum space with respect to the trajectories of the other end of the arm. 10. A load lock system as described in claim 1, further comprising: a second end effector arm pivotally mounted on said first link so that both end effectors are capable of pivotal movement relative to the first link about a common second axis, said second effector arm having a second receiving end for engagement of substrates. 11. In a semiconductor substrate processing system having a processing chamber operatively associated with a load lock chamber and a front end module, said load lock chamber having a transport mechanism mounted therein, a method of transporting a substrate in said load lock chamber comprising: venting said load lock chamber to the atmosphere of said front end module; loading a substrate for processing through a delivery port into said load lock chamber from said front end module for access by said transport mechanism; closing said delivery port of said load lock chamber and pumping said load lock chamber to the operating pressure of said process chamber; opening a process port of said load lock chamber, after said load lock chamber is at said operating pressure, to provide access to said process chamber; operating said transport mechanism to move said substrate directly from said load lock chamber into said process chamber to deposit the substrate in said process chamber through a process port of said load lock chamber; and wherein operating the transport mechanism to deposit the substrate comprises rotating the transport mechanism upper and end effector arms each about a corresponding axis of rotation and in concert to move the substrate along a transport path that positions a center of the substrate during movement along the transport path substantially coincident with an axis of rotation of the upper or end effector arms. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: acquiring said substrate from a buffer shelf in said load lock chamber with said transport mechanism and wherein moving the substrate along the transport path includes; moving said substrate with said transport through a first trajectory from said buffer shelf to a start position; and rotating the end effector arm about its corresponding axis of rotation to enable extension of the transport mechanism for displacement of the substrate towards said process chamber; through a second trajectory parallel to and displaced from said first trajectory. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of defining a space within the load lock chamber having only sufficient clearance to allow the movement of said transport and substrate through said trajectories to minimize the volume of said load lock chamber. 14. A load lock chamber transport constructed to move substrates into a process chamber of a semiconductor substrate processing system in association with a load lock chamber, said transport comprising: an unarticulate arm link located inside of and mounted to the load lock chamber at a proximal end of said link for pivotal motion about a first axis; at least one unarticulated effector arm mounted on a distal end of said arm link for pivotal motion about a second axis parallel to said first axis, said effector arm having a receiving end for engagement of said substrates; and a process controller for controlling the movement of said receiving end of said at least one effector arm in a predetermined sequence including a pick up operation and a drop off operation, wherein the receiving end of the end effector is moved along a path that causes a center of a substrate held by the end effector to be substantially coincident with the first axis. 15. A load lock chamber transport as described in claim 14 wherein said pickup and dropoff operations include movement of said effector arm in independent trajectories, said trajectories being parallel and displaced from each other in a plane transverse to the first axis. 16. A load lock chamber transport as described in claim 15, further comprising; a second end effector arm mounted on said distal end of said lower arm for pivotal movement about said second axis, said second effector arm having a second receiving end for engagement of said substrate; and wherein said process controller is connected for controlling the operation of said second effector arm in said predetermined sequence to effect substrate swapping with the transport without interfacing with a buffer. 17. A load lock chamber transport as described in claim 14, wherein the path is disposed to provide a maximum transport reach to footprint ratio. 