An endoscopic ablation system is provided for use with a flexible endoscope for the ablative treatment of diseased tissue on the interior lining a body lumen. The endoscopic ablation system includes a support member for supporting at least two electrodes that are electrically connected to a RF generator. The electrodes have a shape, size, and spacing that provide ablation between the electrodes, while minimizing ablation of tissue directly underneath the electrodes. The endoscopic ablation system can also include a sheath that fits over a flexible endoscope. A flexible coupling can join the support member to the sheath to facilitate intubation. The support member can include a side opening, and the sheath can include a seal, so that the aspiration means of the endoscope may be used to evacuate the air from inside the body lumen and pull the tissue to be treated into intimate contact with the electrodes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An endoscopic ablation system for electrosurgically treating bodily tissue of a patient, said endoscopic ablation system comprising: at least two electrodes, each of said electrodes having a perimeter P, and adjacent electrodes have adjacent parallel edges spaced apart by a distance d, wherein an ablation index I=P/d is between approximately 1 and 200; a viewing window positioned between adjacent electrodes; an ablation cap for creating space in the lumen of a bodily organ, wherein said at least two electrodes are positioned on said ablation cap, and said viewing window forms a portion of said ablation cap; a sheath, wherein said ablation end cap is hollow and mounted on the distal end of said sheath, wherein a distal end of a flexible endoscope may be inserted through said sheath and at least partially into said ablation end cap, and said sheath and said ablation end cap are rotatable with respect to said flexible endoscope; a seal located near the proximal end of said sheath, said seal adapted to allow passage therethrough of the distal end of the flexible endoscope, whereby said sheath and said ablation cap form an enclosure substantially sealed from the air external to the patient; and an RF generator electrically connected to said at least two electrodes, wherein an operator may actuate said RF generator and ablate tissue endoscopically viewable through said viewing window. 2. An endoscopic ablation system according to claim 1, wherein said first and second electrodes have an ablation index I of between 15 and 35. 3. An endoscopic ablation system according to claim 1, wherein said ablation cap comprises a rigid support member attached to a tapered end cover. 4. An endoscopic ablation system according to claim 3, wherein said tapered end cover is normally closed and is adapted to open in order to allow passage of the distal end of an endoscope therethrough. 5. An endoscopic ablation system according to claim 3, wherein said tapered end cover is made from a transparent, flexible material and is shaped like a bougie tube and is adapted to be passed over a guide wire. 6. An endodcopic ablation system according to claim 1 further including a rotation knob attached at the proximal end of said sheath. 