An in-mold applicator and method for spraying a coating on difficult-to-reach surfaces of a mold is disclosed. The applicator includes a spray head and a base portion at an oblique angle to each other. The outer dimensions of the body portion and the spray head are sufficiently small so that taken in combination with the oblique angle, the applicator and method can enhance the spraying of the coating to difficult-to-reach surfaces within the mold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for spraying a coating on a mold, the mold having a first difficult-to-reach undercut surface which is not directly visible from an external view of the mold, the method comprising: providing an applicator having a body section and a spray head, the spray head having an angled body portion and a non-angled portion such that the spray head defines a fixed oblique angle between the angled and non-angled portions, the spray head having threads on the non-angled portion for threadably securing to threads on the body section, the body section and spray head having outer dimensions sufficiently small in combination with the oblique angle to enhance spraying of the coating onto the difficult-to-reach surfaces of the mold, the body section and spray head each including a central passageway for delivering a liquid medium and an outer passageway surrounding the central passageway for delivering a gaseous medium, the spray head further including a spray cap secured to an outlet end of the spray head by a spray cap lock, the spray cap lock having threads for securing to threads on the spray head, the spray cap lock defining an outer boundary of the spray head; atomizing a fluid by providing the gaseous medium to the outer passageway and the liquid medium to the central passageway of the body portion such that the liquid medium collides with the gaseous medium inside the outer boundary defined by the spray cap lock; and positioning the spray head to spray the atomized fluid within the mold in a head-on position sufficient to squarely spray the atomized fluid onto the mold and the first undercut surface. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the head-on position for squarely spraying the first atomized fluid on the first undercut surface locates a spray fan pattern of the first atomized fluid to sufficiently strike the first undercut surface with sufficient accuracy for reducing the likelihood of the first undercut surface receiving an inadequate amount of coating to sufficiently coat the first undercut surface. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the first atomized fluid is a mold release agent. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising spraying a second atomized fluid onto the first undercut surface from the applicator, the second atomized fluid comprising a polyurethane. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising replacing the spray head with a second spray head that extends at a different oblique angle with respect to the body portion. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the different oblique angle is in the range of 30 to 60 degrees. 7. The method of claim 5 further comprising using the second spray head to coat a second difficult-to-reach undercut surface that is different from the first difficult-to-reach undercut surface. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the oblique angle is 135 degrees. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the first atomized fluid is for skin making. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the oblique angle is less than 90 degrees. 