A robotic device for moving at least one object between locations, including a servo motor system having a single servo axis for effecting motion in at least two directions of motion. The robotic device includes a link arm rotationally coupled to said servo motor system for lifting and placing said at least one object, a head assembly having gripper arms for gripping and releasing said at least one object at said locations. The head assembly includes a leveling mechanism for maintaining said at least one object in a desired orientation, and a split ring sensing mechanism, disposed between said gripper arms, for determining the presence of said at least one object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic device comprising a base, an arm rotatable about a first axis relative to said base, a drive motor to control rotation of said arm about said first axis, a head assembly rotatably mounted on said arm for rotation about an axis parallel to said first axis, said head assembly includes a hand assembly to perimit gripping of an object to be moved, said hand assembly includes a sensor to determine the presence of an object to be moved, said sensor includes a pair of members, each associated with respective one of said fingers and each moveable with said finger between a first position in which a sensing element is active and a second position in which said sensing element is inactive, and a leveling mechanism operable between said base and said head assembly to maintain said head assembly in a predetermined orientation during rotation of said arm about said first axis. 2. A device according to claim 1 wherein said head assembly is rotatably mounted on said head assembly and a motor is mounted on said head assembly to control rotational movement of said hand assembly. 3. A device according to claim 2 wherein said hand assembly is rotatable about an axis orthogonal to said first axis. 4. A device according to claim 1 wherein said hand assembly includes a pair of fingers moveable toward or away from one another and said sensor determines the relative disposition of said fingers. 5. A device according to claim 1 wherein said hand assembly is rotatably mounted on said head assembly and a motor is mounted on said head assembly to control rotational movement of said hand assembly, and each of said pair of members is a part circular segment. 6. A robotic device comprising a base; an arm rotatable about a first axis relative to said base; a drive motor to control rotation of said arm about said first axis; a head assembly rotatably mounted on said arm for rotation about an axis parallel to said first axis, said head assembly includes a tubular shaft rotatably mounted on said arm; a leveling mechanism operable between said base and said head assembly to maintain said head assembly in a predetermined orientation during rotation of said arm about said first axis, said leveling mechanism includes a belt between said base and said head assembly, said belt entrained about a pair of pulleys, one of which is secured to said base and the other of which is secured to said head assembly, said one pulley is adjustable by rotation relative to said base and to cause a corresponding rotation relative to said arm and thereby cause a corresponding adjustment to said predetermined orientation, the other of said pulleys secured to said shaft; and a control harness, said control harness passes through said shaft and along said belt to said base. 7. A device according to claim 6 wherein said head assembly includes a hand assembly rotatably mounted on said head assembly and a motor is mounted on said head assembly to control rotational movement of said hand assembly. 8. A device according to claim 7 wherein a sensor is included in said hand assembly to determine the presence of an object to be moved. 9. A robotic system including a robotic device having a base, an arm rotatable about a first axis relative to said base, a drive motor to control rotation of said arm about said first axis, a head assembly rotatably mounted on said arm for rotation about an axis parallel to said first axis, and a leveling mechanism operable between said base and said head assembly to maintain said head assembly in a predetermined orientation during rotation of said arm about said first axis and a pair of stations to move an object between, at least one of said stations including a support surface with supports therefore to permit adjustment with six degrees of freedom. 10. A device according to claim 9 wherein said head assembly includes a hand assembly to permit gripping of an object to be moved. 11. A device according to claim 10 wherein said hand assembly is rotatably mounted on said head assembly and a motor is mounted on said head assembly to control rotational movement of said hand assembly. 12. A device according to claim 10 wherein a sensor is included in said hand assembly to determine the presence of an object to be moved. 13. A device according to claim 9 wherein said leveling mechanism includes an inextensible member between said base and said head assembly. 