A semiconductor processing system for wafers or other semiconductor articles. The system uses an interface section at an end of the machine accessible from the clean room. A plurality of processing stations are arranged away from the clean room interface. A transfer subsystem removes wafers from supporting carriers, and positions both the wafers and carriers onto a carrousel which is used as an inventory storage. Wafers are shuttled between the inventory and processing stations by a robotic conveyor which is oriented to move toward and away from the interface end. The system processes the wafers without wafer carriers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for moving wafers within an automated wafer processing system, comprising the steps of: supporting an array of wafers at a support location; moving a robot having an engagement implement horizontally in a first direction, to a position where the engagement implement is vertically below the wafers to be moved; moving the robot vertically upwardly, to bring the engagement implement into contact with the wafers; lifting the wafers vertically upwardly, so that the wafers are supported on the engagement implement; moving the engagement implement horizontally in a second direction, opposite to the first direction, to carry the wafers away from the support location; moving the robot to position the engagement implement supporting the wafers into alignment with a rotor; moving the robot horizontally to bring the engagement implement supporting the wafers into the rotor; moving the engagement implement vertically downwardly to set the wafers onto rotor supports in the rotor; and withdrawing the engagement implement from the rotor. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the wafers are supported at opposing side edges at the support location. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the robot moves the engagement implement via an upper robot arm pivotably attached to a lower robot arm. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of spinning the rotor loaded with wafers within a process chamber and spraying a liquid onto the spinning wafers. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of securing the wafers in place within the rotor by pivoting a retainer assembly on the rotor into contact with the wafers. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the wafers are equally spaced apart from each other at the support location. 7. The method of claim 4 wherein the wafers are in a near vertical position while spinning in the process chamber. 8. An automated wafer processing system, comprising: a support for supporting an array of wafers at the edges of the wafers; a robot having an engagement implement for engaging and lifting wafers, with the robot having means for moving the engagement implement horizontally, vertically, and in a circular pivoting movement; a process chamber; a plurality of spray nozzles in the process chamber; and a rotor for receiving the array of wafers and for holding the array of wafers at the edges of the wafers, while the wafers are rotated within the process chamber. 9. The system of claim 8 further comprising a retainer assembly pivotably attached to the rotor for retaining the wafers during rotation. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein the rotor holds the wafers in a near vertical position while spinning in the process chamber. 11. An automated wafer processing system, comprising: a process chamber; a plurality of spray nozzles in the process chamber; support means for supporting an array of wafers before and after processing; rotor means for rotating the array of wafers within the process chamber, while the wafers are sprayed with a liquid from the spray nozzles; and robot means for engaging and lifting wafers, and for moving the wafers horizontally, vertically, and in a circular pivoting movement, between the support means and the rotor means, for loading and unloading the wafers into and out of the rotor means. 12. The system of claim 11 further comprising retainer means associated with the rotor means for retaining the wafers during rotation. 