The method for electroless deposition of a coating material, which may be a metal, semiconductor, or dielectric, that is carried out at a relatively low temperature of the working solution compensated by an increased temperature on the substrate which is controlled by a heater built into the substrate chuck. A decrease in the temperature of the working solution prevents thermal decomposition of the solution and reduces formation of gas bubbles, normally generated at increased temperatures. Accumulation of bubbles on the surface of the substrate is further prevented due to upwardly-facing orientation of the treated surface of the substrate. The substrate holder is equipped with a substrate heater and a substrate cooler, that can be used alternatingly for quick heating or cooling of the substrate surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for electroless deposition of a material in the form a thin film of said material on at least one side of a substrate at a substrate temperature from a deposition solution at a deposition solution temperature in a working chamber of an electroless deposition apparatus, comprising: providing said apparatus with a substrate holder equipped with a substrate cooler and a substrate heater; placing said substrate into said substrate holder in a position of said at least one side of the substrate facing upward; supplying said deposition solution into said apparatus; adjusting a difference between said deposition solution temperature and said substrate temperature to a predetermined value at least with the use of at lease one of said substrate cooler and a said substrate heater; maintaining said difference between said deposition solution temperature and said substrate temperature at said predetermined value; conducting said electroless deposition; and discontinuing said electroless deposition when said thin film reaches a predetermined thickness. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said deposition solution temperature is lower than said substrate temperature. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said deposition solution temperature can be selected within the range from 16.degree. C. to 120.degree. C., and wherein said substrate temperature can be selected within the range from 16.degree. C. to 140.degree. C. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of supplying a gas under controlled pressure into said working chamber. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said substrate cooler and a substrate heater comprises one and the same unit that can function selectively as a heater or a cooler. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said deposition solution is supplied to said working chamber at room temperature and wherein said substrate holder temperature exceeds room temperature. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of supplying said deposition solution into said apparatus comprises wetting said at least one side of the substrate. 8. A method for electroless plating, comprising: maintaining a substrate holder within a temperature range; exposing a substrate held by the substrate holder to a deposition solution having a temperature less than a temperature of the substrate holder; and altering the temperature of the substrate holder to be less than the temperature of the deposition solution subsequent to the step of exposing the substrate to the deposition solution. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of maintaining the substrate holder within a temperature range comprises maintaining the substrate holder between approximately 16.degree. C. and approximately 140.degree. C. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the temperature of the deposition solution is between approximately 16.degree. C. and approximately 95.degree. C. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the temperature of the deposition solution is between approximately 16.degree. C. and approximately 25.degree. C. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of maintaining the substrate holder within the temperature range comprises heating the substrate holder. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the step of heating the substrate holder comprises applying electric current to a heater built into the substrate holder. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the step of heating the substrate holder comprises flowing current in a substantially similar direction through a plurality of semiconductor plates within the substrate holder. 15. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of altering the temperature of the substrate holder comprises passing a cooling medium through a channel within the substrate holder. 16. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of altering the temperature of the substrate holder comprises flowing current in substantially opposite directions through a plurality of semiconductor plates within the substrate holder. 17. A method for electroless deposition, comprising: heating a substrate holder while depositing a film upon a substrate; and cooling the substrate holder to discontinue the deposition process. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the step of cooling the substrate bolder comprises reducing the temperature of the substrate holder to a temperature lower than a temperature of a plating solution used for depositing the film. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the step of heating the substrate holder comprises heating the substrate holder to a temperature higher than a temperature of a plating solution used for depositing the film. 