A robotic positioner for use with an automated processing system, such as an automated welding system, for example, includes a base, a support structure rotatably supported on the base, and at least one work surface supported on the support structure suitable for supportably engaging a workpiece. The support structure extends from the base at an angle relative to vertical, and the work surface extends at an angle relative to the support structure. In operation, a workpiece is secured onto a work surface while in a generally horizontal load/unload position. The support structure and work surface thereon is then rotated into an inclined work position relative to horizontal that is adjacent the automated processing system. Thereafter, the work surface is rotated with the support structure back to the generally horizontal load/unload position so that the workpiece can be removed and another loaded. A robotic positioner having two or more work surfaces can have one work surface in the load/unload position while another is in the work position. Additionally, the work surfaces can be rotatably supported on the support structure, such as by a rotatable platform.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic positioner for supporting an associate workpiece, above an associated floor surface, said robotic positioner comprising: a base on the associated floor; a workpiece support structure supported on said base for rotation about an axis extending at a substantially non-zero angle relative to vertical; and, a work surface on said support structure for supporting the associated workpiece; said work surface being revolvable about said axis with said support structure between first and second positions in which said work surface is respectively disposed at a first angle to vertical and at a second angle to vertical with said first and second angles being different from one another. 2. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 1, wherein said angle of said support structure is about 22.5 degrees. 3. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 1, wherein said first angle to vertical is about 90 degrees. 4. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 1, wherein said second angle to vertical is about 45 degrees. 5. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 1, wherein said support structure includes a lower support portion supported on said base, a pedestal portion extending from said lower support portion, and an upper support portion secured on said pedestal portion. 6. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 5, wherein said upper support portion includes an upper mounting block secured on said pedestal portion and a plurality of angular mounting blocks supported on said upper mounting block. 7. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 5, wherein said lower support portion is mounted in an affixed orientation on said base, and said pedestal portion is rotatably supported on said lower support portion. 8. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 5, wherein said lower support portion is pivotally supported on said base. 9. A robotic positioner for supporting a workpiece, said robotic positioner comprising: a workpiece support structure supported for rotation about an axis extending at an angle relative to vertical, said support structure including a lower support portion, a pedestal portion and an upper support portion; and, a work surface on said support structure for supporting the workpiece, said work surface being supported on said upper support portion, and said upper support portion including an adjustment member for adjusting the position of said work surface relative to said upper support portion; said work surface being revolvable about said axis with said support structure between first and second positions in which said work surface is respectively disposed at a first angle to vertical and at a second angle to vertical. 10. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 9, wherein said adjustment member is pivotally supported on said upper support portion. 11. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 1, wherein said work surface is a first work surface and said robotic positioner further includes a second work surface on said support structure, said second work surface being rotatable about said axis with said support structure between said first and second positions in which said second work surface is respectively disposed at said first angle to vertical and at said second angle to vertical. 12. A robotic positioner for supporting associated workpieces, said robotic positioner comprising: a workpiece support structure supported for rotation about an axis extending at a substantially non-zero angle relative to vertical; first and second work surfaces on said support structure for supporting the associated workpieces; and, a shielding member between said first and said second work surfaces; said first and second work surfaces being revolvable about said axis with said support structure between first and second positions, in said first position said work surfaces being disposed at a first angle to vertical and in said second position said work surfaces being disposed at a second angle to vertical, said first and second angles being different from one another. 13. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a platform supporting said work surface on said support structure. 14. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 13, wherein said platform is rotatably supported on said support structure. 15. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 1, wherein said work surface is a first work surface and said robotic positioner includes a plurality of work surfaces supported on said support structure, each of said work surfaces being spaced from said axis and being revolvable therearound between said first and said second positions, each work surface being disposed at said first angle to vertical in said first position and at said second angle to vertical in said second position. 16. A robotic positioner for sequentially supporting first and second associated workpieces relative to a welding head of an automatic welding system, said robotic positioner comprising: a floor-engaging base; a support structure rotatably supported on said base and having a structure axis extending along a substantially vertical first plane at a substantially non-zero angle relative to vertical; a first work surface on said support structure for rotation therewith and for supporting the first associated workpiece, said first work surface having a first axis and extending transverse to said first axis; a second work surface on said support structure for rotation therewith and for supporting the second associated workpiece, said second work surface having a second axis and extending transverse to said second axis; and, said first and second axes extending at a substantially non-zero angle to said structure axis and to each other. 17. A robotic positioner comprising: a base extending along an associated subjacent surface; a work surface having a first generally horizontal position for supporting a workpiece; and a rotatable support structure extending from said base generally opposite the associated subjacent surface, said support structure having an axis disposed at a substantially non-zero structure angle relative to vertical, said support structure supporting said work surface in said first position and being rotatable about said axis to support said work surface in a second position in which said work surface is disposed at a substantially non-zero work angle relative to horizontal. 18. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 17, wherein said structure angle is about one-half of said work angle. 19. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 18, wherein said work angle is about 45 degrees. 20. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 17, wherein said work surface is a first work surface and said robotic positioner is further comprised of a second work surface supported on said support structure and spaced from said axis opposite said first work surface. 21. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 20 further comprising a shielding member between said first and said second work surfaces. 22. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 17, wherein said support structure includes an upper support portion, a lower support portion and a pedestal portion extending between said upper and lower support portions, said pedestal portion being rotatably supported on said lower support portion. 23. A robotic positioner in accordance with claim 22, wherein said lower support portion is pivotally supported on said base for adjusting said structure angle and includes a pivot adjustment member engaging said base. 24. A robotic positioner for supporting an associated workpiece above a subjacent support surface, said robotic positioner comprising: a base supported on said subjacent support surface; a support structure extending upwardly from said base opposite said subjacent support surface and being rotatable about a structure axis, said structure axis extending along a vertical reference plane at a substantially non-zero axis angle relative to a vertical reference line of said vertical reference plane; and, a work surface adapted to support the associated workpieces, said work surface being supported on said support structure and revolvable therewith about said structure axis between first and second positions, said work surface defining a work surface plane and a work surface reference line extending in a direction normal to said work surface plane; in said first position, said work surface reference line extending in substantial alignment with said vertical reference line; and, in said second position, said work surface reference line extending at a substantially non-zero work line angle to said vertical reference line. 25. A robotic positioner according to claim 24, wherein said work surface plane extends generally transverse said vertical reference plane in at least one of said first and second positions. 26. A robotic positioner according to claim 24, wherein said substantially non-zero axis angle is from about 20 degrees to about 25 degrees. 27. A robotic positioner according to claim 24, wherein said substantially non-zero work line angle is from about 40 degrees to about 60 degrees. 28. A robotic positioner according to claim 24, wherein said work surface is a first work surface, and said robotic positioner further comprises a second work surface supported on said support structure. 29. A robotic positioner according to claim 24, wherein said work surface reference line is disposed along said vertical reference plane in at least one of said first and second positions. 30. A robotic positioner according to claim 24, wherein said work surface reference line extends in a direction generally normal to said work surface. 31. A robotic positioner according to claim 1, wherein said substantially non-zero axis angle is from about 10 degrees to about 40 degrees. 32. A robotic positioner according to claim 16, wherein at least one of said first and second axes extend along said first plane. 33. A robotic positioner according to claim 16, wherein said support structure includes a lower support portion supported on said base, a pedestal portion extending from said lower support portion, and an upper support portion secured on said pedestal portion. 34. A robotic positioner according to claim 33, wherein said lower support portion is pivotally supported on said base. 35. A robotic positioner according to claim 1, wherein said work surface is rotatably supported on said support structure. 36. A robotic positioner according to claim 1, wherein said base includes a bottom surface in abutting engagement with the floor. 37. A robotic positioner according to claim 1, wherein said work surface is in abutting engagement with the work piece. 38. A robotic positioner according to claim 9, wherein said work surface is rotatably supported on said support structure. 39. A robotic positioner according to claim 12, wherein said shielding member is secured on said support structure. 40. A robotic positioner according to claim 12, wherein said first and second work surfaces are rotatably supported on said support structure. 41. A robotic positioner according to claim 16, further comprising a shielding member supported on said support structure between said first and second work surfaces. 42. A robotic positioner according to claim 16, wherein said support structure is pivotally supported on said base such that said angle of said support structure is adjustable. 43. A robotic positioner according to claim 16, wherein said work surface is rotatably supported on said support structure. 44. A robotic positioner according to claim 17, wherein said work surface is rotatably supported on said support structure. 45. A robotic positioner according to claim 24, wherein said work surface is rotatably supported on said support structure. 