Methods and apparatus for efficiently analyzing defects in-line on a wafer by wafer basis are provided. In general terms, embodiments of the present invention provide a simple interface for setting up the entire inspection and defect analysis process in a single set up procedure. The apparatus includes an inspection station for inspecting a specimen for potential defects and a review station for analyzing a sample of the potential defects to determine a classification of such potential defects. The apparatus further includes a computer system having an application interface operable to allow a user to set up the inspection station and the review station during a same setup phase so as to allow the inspection station and the review station to then operate automatically to provide defect information for one or more specimens based on the user set up.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for analyzing defects on specimens, comprising: receiving selection of a recipe for performing an inspection of the specimens for potential defects using an inspection tool and for performing a defect analysis of the potential defects using a review tool that differs from the inspection tool, wherein the recipe is received in a single interface; and automatically setting up the inspection tool based on the recipe and then inspecting the specimens for potential defects using the inspection tool to thereby locate a plurality of potential defects on the specimens; and automatically setting up the review tool based on the recipe and then analyzing the potential defects using the review tool, wherein the analysis of the potential defects results in defect information. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the defect information is in the form of defect classifications of the potential defects. 3. A method as recited in claim 2, wherein the defect information is in the form of pareto charts having a plurality of bars, wherein each bar represents a particular defect type and has a height corresponding to a number of defects found with the particular defect type. 4. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the recipe is selected by selecting an existing recipe when an existing recipe for the specimens is available and generating a new recipe when there is no existing recipe available for the specimens. 5. A method as recited in claim 4, wherein generating a new recipe comprises: providing a test specimen having known defects; setting inspection imaging conditions and one or more threshold parameters for inspecting the test specimen for potential defects and setting review imaging conditions for analyzing the potential defects of the test specimen; under the inspection imaging conditions, performing an inspection on the test specimen to locate potential defects based on the threshold parameters; under the review imaging conditions, performing a defect analysis of the potential defects located during the inspection; adjusting one or more of the inspection imaging conditions, review imaging conditions, and threshold parameters until the potential defects located during the inspection and analyzed during the defect analysis substantially match the known defects of the test specimen; and generating and loading a recipe based on the inspection imaging conditions, review imaging conditions, and threshold parameters when the potential defects located during the inspection and the analyzed during the defect analysis substantially match the known defects of the test specimen. 6. A method as recited in claim 5, wherein the inspection imaging conditions and the review imaging conditions are selected from a group consisting of resolution, noise suppression parameters, focus, an optics mode, a pixel size, thresholds, a landing energy, a beam current density, a scan pattern, a spot size, an acceleration voltage, a wafer bias, and a field of view size. 7. A method as recited in claim 6, wherein setting the inspection imaging conditions and the review imaging conditions include setting parameters only once which are selected from a group consisting of a die size, a die layout, a die origin, a flat or notch position, device layer, and an alignment site image. 8. A method as recited in claim 5, wherein the defect analysis includes classifying the potential defects into defect types or nuisances and the potential defects substantially match the known defects when the classified defect types of the potential defects substantially match the known defects' types. 9. A method as recited in claim 2, wherein the operation of automatically inspecting the specimens for potential defects and analyzing the potential defects comprises: (a) loading and aligning a first one of the specimens for inspection; (b) inspecting the first specimen for potential defects and providing potential defect information; (c) sampling a portion of the potential defects of the first specimen; and (d) reviewing and classifying the sampled potential defects into a plurality of defect types and providing defect information based on such review and classification. 10. A method as recited in claim 9, further comprising repeating operations (a) through (d) for a next specimen immediately after inspecting the first specimen. 11. A method as recited in claim 10, further comprising adjusting the selected recipe based on the provided defect information. 12. A method as recited in claim 10, further comprising halting further processing of the first and the next specimen based on the provided defect information. 13. A method as recited in claim 10, further comprising halting the inspection of the next specimen based on the provided defect information. 14. A method as recited in claim 10, further comprising eliminating or minimizing a root cause of one or more of the defect types based on the provided defect information. 15. A method as recited in claim 10, wherein the defect types include a false defect type. 16. An apparatus for analyzing defects on specimens, comprising: an inspection tool for inspecting a specimen for potential defects; a review tool for analyzing a sample of the potential defects to determine a classification of such potential defects, wherein the inspection tool differs from the review tool; a computer system configured with an application interface to allow a user to input setup conditions for the inspection tool and the review tool during a same setup phase to thereby cause the inspection tool and the review tool automatically to set up and operate based on the input setup conditions to then provide inspection and analysis of defects for one or more specimens. 17. An apparatus as recited in claim 16, wherein the inspection tool and the review tool are integrated together into a single station. 18. An apparatus as recited in claim 16, wherein the application interface has input fields for entry of a plurality of imaging conditions and at least one threshold parameter for the inspection tool and a plurality of imaging conditions for the review tool. 19. An apparatus as recited in claim 18, wherein the computer system is further operable to generate a recipe for operation of the inspection tool and review tool based on the plurality of imaging conditions and the at least one threshold parameter for the inspection tool and the plurality of imaging conditions for the review tool entered by a user. 20. An apparatus as recited in claim 19, wherein the computer system is further operable to automatically initiate execution of the inspection tool and review tool based on the generated recipe. 21. An apparatus as recited in claim 20, wherein the computer system is further operable to automatically optimize the recipe. 22. An apparatus as recited in claim 16, wherein the application interface is implemented on either the inspection tool or the review tool and the inspection tool is located at a different station then the review tool so that the inspection tool is a physically separate device than the review tool. 23. An apparatus as recited in claim 16, wherein the defect information is provided by presenting it within the application interface. 