A counterpulsation device that operates without the use of compressed air or pressurized gas includes at least one inflatable cuff that is adapted to be placed about a selected portion of the patient's body. A first conduit connects the inflatable cuff to an air transfer device so that noncompressed air can be transferred from the air transfer device to the cuff through the first conduit to inflate the cuff. A second conduit connects the cuff to the air transfer device so that air can flow through the second conduit to deflate the cuff. The system is controlled using a computer-based controller that requires a series of initialization procedures before it will operate the system. A patient profile database includes historical treatment data for each patient and is automatically updated with each counter pulsation therapy session.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a counterpulsation therapy system that includes a computer that controls the operation of the system, comprising the steps of: (A) defining a plurality of procedures to be performed by an operator of the system; (B) prompting the operator, using the computer, to perform the plurality of procedures from step (A); (C) verifying that each of the procedures is completed, using the computer; and (D) operating the counterpulsation therapy system only when the verification from step (C) is complete. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (A) includes assigning a preselected order in which the plurality of procedures must be performed. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein step (C) includes verifying that the procedures were completed in the preselected order. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (B) includes providing a computer screen display that visually indicates the procedures to be performed. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein step (B) includes providing a different computer screen display for each of the plurality of procedures and wherein each said display includes visible instructions that guide the operator through the procedure. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein step (C) includes requiring the operator to provide a predefined input to the computer that indicates that the procedures have been completed. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein step (C) includes requiring the operator to provide a separate predefined input to the computer that each indicate that a respective one of the procedures has been completed. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein step (A) includes assigning a preselected order in which the plurality of procedures must be performed and wherein steps (B) and (C) are performed in sequence for each of the procedures and wherein the method includes not permitting an operator to continue on from a current procedure to a subsequent procedure until the operator provides an indication that the current procedure is satisfactorily completed. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the procedures from step (A) includes arranging and initiating an external device for monitoring a condition of the patient and wherein step (C) includes providing the computer with a signal from the external device verifying that the external device has been properly arranged and is operational. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the procedures of step (A) include entering a patient identifier; entering current patient status including one or more of the group consisting of current blood pressure, current heart rate, current body temperature, current weight, current condition of the skin on the portion of the body about which the cuff is placed; arranging an electrocardiogram device such that the device provides an indication of the patient's heart beat to the computer; and arranging a plethysmograph device such that the device provides an indication of the patient's blood pressure to the computer. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein step (C) includes verifying that the procedures of step (A) are performed sequentially in the order listed in claim 10. 