A method and apparatus are provided for detecting contact between a wafer blade of a wafer-handling robot and a component in a wafer-handling system. The robot moves the wafer blade within the system while the wafer blade is maintained at an electrical potential, which is different from an electrical potential of the component. Contact between the wafer blade and the component is detected by sensing a change in the electrical potential of the wafer blade during the contact.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting contact between a wafer blade of a wafer-handling robot and a component in a wafer-handling system, the method comprising: (a) moving the wafer blade within the system with the robot; (b) maintaining the wafer blade at an electrical potential during movement of the wafer blade, wherein the electrical potential of the wafer blade is different from an electrical potential of the component; and (c) sensing a change in the electrical potential of the wafer blade during contact of the wafer blade with the component. 2. The method of claim 1 and further comprising: (d) placing an electrically-conductive wafer on the wafer blade such that the wafer is electrically coupled to the wafer blade; (e) carrying the wafer on the wafer blade during step (a); and (f) sensing a change in an electrical potential of the wafer during contact of the wafer with a component in the system by sensing a change in the electrical potential of the wafer blade. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein step (b) comprises maintaining the wafer blade at a floating electrical potential during movement of the wafer blade. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the electrical potential of the component is a ground potential, and step (c) comprises sensing a change in the electrical potential of the wafer blade toward the ground potential. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the robot comprises an arm having at least one section that is electrically coupled to the wafer blade and wherein step (c) comprises sensing the change in the electrical potential of the wafer blade through a change in an electrical potential of the section of the arm during contact of the wafer blade with the component. 6. The method of claim 5 and further comprising: (d) providing a contact sensor for sensing the change in electrical potential in step (c) through a sense wire; and (e) mounting the contact sensor on the arm and electrically coupling the sense wire to the section of the arm. 7. The method of claim 1 and further comprising: (d) generating a contact indicator signal in response to the change in electrical potential sensed in step (c). 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the contact indicator signal is visually-perceptible. 9. The method of claim 7 and further comprising: (e) transmitting the contact indicator signal as a wireless signal to a receiver. 10. The method of claim 7 and further comprising: (e) stopping movement of the wafer blade in step (a) in response to the contact indicator signal. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the robot comprises an interlock loop, which controls operation of the robot and wherein step (e) comprises breaking the interlock loop in response to the contact indicator signal. 12. A wafer-handling system comprising: a component having an electrical potential; a wafer-handling robot having a robotic arm, which supports a wafer blade for transporting a wafer in the system, wherein the wafer blade has a different electrical potential than the component; and a sensor electrically coupled to the wafer blade to sense a change in the electrical potential of the wafer blade during contact between the wafer blade and the component. 13. The wafer-handling system of claim 12 wherein the component has a ground electrical potential and the wafer blade has a floating electrical potential during movement of the wafer blade in the system. 14. The wafer-handling system of claim 12 wherein: the robotic arm comprises at least one section that is electrically coupled to the wafer blade; and the sensor is electrically coupled to the section of the robotic arm to sense the change in the electrical potential of the wafer blade through a change in an electrical potential of the section of the arm during contact of the wafer blade with the component. 15. The wafer-handling system of claim 12 wherein the sensor generates a contact output signal in response to the change in the electrical potential and comprises a contact indicator, which is perceptible by a human operator and is driven by the contact output signal. 16. The wafer-handling system of claim 12 wherein the sensor comprises: a transmitter, which is mounted to the robot and has a sense wire electrically coupled to the wafer blade to sense the change in the electrical potential of the wafer blade, wherein the transmitter transmits a contact indicator signal in response to the change in the electrical potential; and a receiver, which is remote from the transmitter and receives the contact indicator signal. 17. The wafer-handling system of claim 16 wherein the robot comprises an interlock loop, which controls operation of the robot and the receiver is coupled to break the interlock loop when the receiver receives the contact indicator signal. 18. A wafer blade contact sensor for sensing contact between a wafer blade of a wafer-handling robot and a component in a wafer-handling system, the contact sensor comprising: a sense wire for electrically coupling to the wafer blade; and a sensor circuit, which is electrically-coupled to the sense wire and generates a contact output signal in response to a change in an electrical potential of the wafer blade, as sensed by the sense wire, due to electrical contact between the wafer blade and the component. 19. The wafer blade contact sensor of claim 18 and further comprising: a contact indicator, which is perceptible by a human operator and is driven by the contact output signal. 20. The wafer blade contact sensor of claim 18 wherein the sensor circuit comprises a transmitter, which transmits a wireless contact signal in response to the contact output signal, and wherein the sensor further comprises a receiver, which is remote from the transmitter and receives the wireless contact signal. 