A multi-function end effector includes a plurality of tool change mechanisms in a housing in which a spindle is also mounted for translation along an axis of the spindle. Each tool change mechanism has a gripper that releasably grips a tool holder in which a tool is mounted. The gripper of each tool change mechanism is movable between a stowed position to a tool-change position in which the gripper is coaxially aligned with the axis of the spindle for placing a tool holder held in the gripper in a position to be received by the spindle and for positioning the gripper to receive a tool holder from the spindle. The tools mounted in the tool holders include a drill bit, a countersink tool, and a fastener insertion tool. The end effector also includes a fastener feed system, a hammer device, and a sealant applicator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-function end effector for mounting at a working end of a motion platform, the end effector comprising: a housing; a rotatable spindle mounted in an interior of the housing, the spindle having a recess for receiving a tool holder and a tool-gripping assembly operable to releasably grip the tool holder to fix the tool holder in the spindle; a spindle feed mechanism connected with the spindle and operable to impart translational motion to the spindle along an axis of the spindle for advancing and retracting the spindle such that a tool held in the tool holder is axially advanced and retracted, advancement of the spindle causing the tool to extend out from the housing for engaging a workpiece to be operated upon, retraction of the spindle causing the tool holder and tool to be withdrawn into the interior of the housing; a plurality of tool change mechanisms mounted in the housing, each tool change mechanism having a gripper operable to releasably grip a tool holder having a tool mounted therein and being operable to move from a stowed position in which the gripper is spaced outward from the axis of the spindle, to a tool-change position in which the gripper is coaxially aligned with the axis of the spindle for placing a tool holder held in the gripper in a position to be received by the spindle or for positioning the gripper to receive a tool holder from the spindle; and a plurality of tool holders each having its own dedicated tool change mechanism, the tool holders comprising at least a first tool holder having a rotary cutter mounted therein for drilling a hole through a workpiece, and a second tool holder in which is mounted a fastener insertion tool structured and arranged to insert a blind fastener into the hole in the workpiece when the spindle is advanced and to rotatably drive one portion of the fastener adjacent an accessible side of the workpiece facing the end effector so as to expand another portion of the fastener adjacent an opposite side of the workpiece. 2. The multi-function end effector of claim 1, further comprising a third tool holder in which a countersinking tool is mounted for countersinking the hole in the workpiece. 3. The multi-function end effector of claim 1, further comprising a hammer mechanism mounted in the housing for driving the fastener through the hole in the workpiece after the fastener has been partially inserted into the hole by the fastener insertion tool. 4. The multi-function end effector of claim 3, wherein the hammer mechanism comprises an impact hammer mounted on an arm that is rotatably and translationally movable within the housing for moving the impact hammer between a stand-by position inside the housing spaced outward of the axis of the spindle, and an active position in which a fastener-engaging portion of the impact hammer is coaxial with the axis of the spindle and extends out from the housing to engage a fastener inserted into a hole in the workpiece. 5. The multi-function end effector of claim 4, wherein the arm is rotatably attached at one end thereof to a piston rod of a fluid-operated cylinder that imparts translational movement to the arm. 6. The multi-function end effector of claim 5, wherein the arm is rotated by a cam arrangement as the arm is translated. 7. The multi-function end effector of claim 1, wherein the gripper of each tool change mechanism comprises a pair of opposed gripping fingers movable toward and away from each other for gripping one of the tool holders therebetween. 8. The multi-function end effector of claim 1, further comprising a sealant applicator device mounted in the housing and operable to apply a sealant to the fastener prior to the fastener being inserted into the hole in the workpiece. 9. The multi-function end effector of claim 1, wherein each tool change mechanism pivots about a pivot axis for moving the gripper between the stowed position and the tool-change position. 10. The multi-function end effector of claim 9, wherein the pivot axis of each tool change mechanism is parallel to the axis of the spindle. 11. The multi-function end effector of claim 10, wherein each gripper has its own rotary actuator for pivoting the gripper about the pivot axis, each rotary actuator being mounted in a fixed located in the housing. 12. The multi-function end effector of claim 1, further comprising a fastener feed system for feeding fasteners into the end effector and installing a fastener into the fastener insertion tool. 13. The multi-function end effector of claim 12, wherein the fastener feed system includes a fastener supply unit remote from the end effector and a fastener receiver unit mounted on the end effector, the supply unit transporting fasteners one at a time through a feed conduit to the receiver unit. 14. The multi-function end effector of claim 13, wherein the fastener feed system further comprises a fastener transfer mechanism that retrieves a fastener from the fastener receiver unit and moves the fastener into a position for engagement in the fastener insertion tool. 15. The multi-function end effector of claim 14, wherein the fastener transfer mechanism includes a transfer arm rotatably and translationally movable within the housing and carrying a gripping device at one end of the transfer arm for releasably gripping a fastener and moving the fastener from the receiver unit to the fastener insertion tool. 16. The multi-function end effector of claim 15, wherein the transfer arm is translated by a fluid-operated cylinder and is rotated by a cam arrangement. 17. The multi-function end effector of claim 14, wherein the fastener receiver unit is structured and arranged to receive a plurality of different-sized fasteners in designated receptacles of the receiver unit. 18. The multi-function end effector of claim 17, wherein the receiver unit is operable to shuttle back and forth to move a fastener disposed in any of the receptacles to a pick-up location from which the fastener can be retrieved by the fastener transfer mechanism. 19. A multi-function end effector for mounting at a working end of a motion platform, the end effector comprising: a housing; a spindle mounted in an interior of the housing, the spindle having a recess for receiving a tool holder and a clamping assembly operable to releasably grip the tool holder to fix the tool holder relative to the spindle; a spindle feed mechanism connected with the spindle and operable to impart translational motion to the spindle along an axis of the spindle for advancing and retracting the spindle such that a tool held in the tool holder is axially advanced and retracted, advancement of the spindle causing the tool to extend out from the housing for engaging a workpiece to be operated upon, retraction of the spindle causing the tool holder and tool to be withdrawn into the interior of the housing; a plurality of tool change mechanisms mounted in the housing, each tool change mechanism having a gripper operable to releasably grip a tool holder having a tool mounted therein and being operable to pivot about a pivot axis from a stowed position in which the gripper is spaced outward of the axis of the spindle, to a tool-change position in which the gripper is aligned with the axis of the spindle for placing a tool holder held in the gripper in a position to be received by the spindle and for positioning the gripper to receive a tool holder from the spindle, the pivot axis of each tool-change mechanism being parallel with the axis of the spindle; and a plurality of tool holders each having a different tool mounted therein, each tool holder having its own dedicated tool change mechanism. 20. The multi-function end effector of claim 19, wherein the tool change mechanisms and tool holders comprise at least a first tool change mechanism and first tool holder having a rotary cutter mounted therein for drilling a hole through a workpiece, and a second tool change mechanism and second tool holder in which is mounted a fastener insertion tool structured and arranged to insert a fastener into the hole in the workpiece when the spindle is advanced. 21. The multi-function end effector of claim 20, wherein the fastener insertion tool is structured and arranged to insert a blind fastener into the hole in the workpiece when the spindle is advanced and to rotatably drive one portion of the fastener adjacent an accessible side of the workpiece facing the end effector so as to expand another portion of the fastener adjacent an opposite side of the workpiece. 22. The multi-function end effector of claim 21, further comprising a hammer mechanism for driving the fastener through the hole in the workpiece after the fastener has been partially inserted into the hole by the fastener insertion tool. 23. The multi-function end effector of claim 22, further comprising a third tool change mechanism and third tool holder in which a countersink tool is mounted for countersinking the hole in the workpiece. 24. The multi-function end effector of claim 19, wherein each tool change mechanism includes a rotary actuator, the rotary actuators being mounted in fixed locations in the housing. 25. The multi-function end effector of claim 24, wherein the spindle is arranged to pass between the rotary actuators when the spindle is advanced to place the tool held in the spindle in engagement with the workpiece. 