An endless belt for a belt type polishing machine comprises a support fabric and a polymer layer of relatively low hardness. The polymer layer is formed with drainage grooves. The support fabric may comprise a non woven or woven material, or a membrane with oriented reinforcing yarns. A further version comprises a spiral-link fabric supporting a woven or non woven layer carrying the polymer layer. The polymer layer may be a double layer, the upper of which is either harder or softer than the lower layer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A polishing tool for polishing silicon wafers, said tool comprising an endless belt which includes a continuous unseamed textile fabric supporting a polishing layer, said polishing layer comprising a microcellular or microporous urethane, wherein said fabric is woven and comprises aramid yarns oriented in the lengthwise direction and said polishing layer includes two layers which are of different hardness. 2. A polishing tool according to claim 1 wherein an exposed surface of said polishing layer is formed with grooves. 3. A polishing tool according to claim 1 wherein an upper of said two layers includes beads of plastic, glass or a soluble material. 4. A polishing tool according to claim 1 wherein said polishing layers comprises hollow beads of plastic, glass or other soluble material. 5. An endless belt for polishing semiconductor wafers comprises a continuous unseamed textile fabric supporting a polishing layer, said polishing layer comprising a microcellular or microporous urethane, wherein said fabric is woven and includes aramid yarns oriented in the lengthwise direction, and said polishing layer comprises two layer which are of different hardness. 6. An endless belt according to claim 5 wherein an exposed surface of said polishing layer is formed with grooves. 7. An endless belt according to claim 5 wherein an upper of said two layers includes beads of plastic, glass or a soluble material. 8. An endless belt according to claim 5 wherein said polishing layers comprises hollow beads of plastic, glass or other soluble material. 9. An endless belt for polishing optical flats comprising a continuous unseamed textile fabric supporting a polishing layer, said polishing layer comprising a microcellular or micorporous urethane, wherein said fabric is woven and comprises aramid yarns oriented in the lengthwise direction and said polishing layer includes two layers which are of different harness. 10. An endless belt according to claim 9 wherein an exposed surface of said polishing layer is formed with grooves. 11. An endless belt according to claim 9 wherein an upper of said two layers includes beads of plastic, glass or soluble material. 12. An endless belt according to claim 9 wherein said polishing layers comprises hollow beads of plastic, glass or other soluble material. 13. An endless belt for polishing mirrors comprising a continuous unseamed textile fabric supporting a polishing layer, said polishing layer comprising a microcellular or microporous urethane, said polishing layer including two layers which are of different hardness. 14. An endless belt according to claim 13 wherein said fabric is woven and comprises aramid yarns oriented in the lengthwise direction. 15. An endless belt according to claim 13 wherein an exposed surface of said polishing layer is formed with grooves. 16. An endless belt according to claim 13 wherein an upper of said two layers includes beads of plastic, glass or soluble material. 17. An endless belt according to claim 13 wherein said polishing layers comprises hollow beads of plastic, glass or other soluble material. 