A method and system for mutually-immersive telepresencing includes determining a height of a user and monitoring a height of an image of the user on an adjustable height surrogate. The method includes transmitting the height of the user and the image of the user, and moving the height of the image of the user on the adjustable height surrogate towards the height of the user.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for mutually-immersive telepresencing comprising: determining a height of a user; monitoring a height of an image of a user on an adjustable height surrogate; transmitting the height of the user and the image of the user; and moving the height of the image of the user on the adjustable height surrogate towards the height of the user. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein: determining the height of a user includes: using the head of the user. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein: determining the height of the user includes: using a camera; calculating how far the user is from the camera, and calculating the height of the user based on how far the user is from the camera and the height of the user relative to a height of the camera. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein: determining the height of the user includes: using a pair of cameras; and processing images from the pair of cameras to locate the head of the user. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein: determining the height of the user includes: introducing a height factor to modify the height of the image of the user on the surrogate. 6. A method for mutually-immersive telepresencing comprising: determining a height of a user using a camera system; monitoring a height of an image of a user on an adjustable height surrogate using a sensor; transmitting the height of the user and the image of the user over a high-speed network; and matching the height of the image of the user on the adjustable height surrogate and the height of the user. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6 wherein: determining the height of a user includes: using the head of the user to establish the height of the user. 8. The method as claimed in claim 6 wherein: determining the height of the user includes: using the camera system with a pair of cameras; triangulating how far the user is from the pair of cameras, and triangulating the height of the user based on how far the user is from the pair of cameras and the height of the user relative to an average height of the pair of cameras. 9. The method as claimed in claim 6 wherein: determining the height of the user includes: using the camera system with a pair of cameras; and processing images from the pair of cameras to locate the head of the user using a technique selected from a group consisting of chroma-keying and near-infrared difference keying. 10. The method as claimed in claim 6 wherein: determining the height of the user includes: introducing a height factor to vary the match between the height of the user and the height of the image of the user on the surrogate. 11. A mutually-immersive telepresencing system comprising: a system for determining a height of a user; a system for monitoring a height of an image of a user on an adjustable height surrogate; a system transmitting the height of the user and an image of a user; and a system for moving the height of the image of the user on adjustable height surrogate towards the height of the user. 12. The mutually-immersive telepresencing system as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the system for determining the height of a user includes: a system for using the head of the user. 13. The mutually-immersive telepresencing system as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the system for determining the height of the user includes: a camera; a system for calculating how far the user is from the camera, and a system for calculating the height of the user based on how far the user is from the camera and the height of the user relative to a height of the camera. 14. The mutually-immersive telepresencing system as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the system for determining the height of the user includes: a pair of cameras; and a system for processing images from the pair of cameras to locate the head of the user. 15. The mutually-immersive telepresencing system as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the system for determining the height of the user includes: adjustments for introducing a height factor to modify the height of the image of the user on the surrogate. 16. The mutually-immersive telepresencing system as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the system for moving the height of the image of the user on the adjustable height surrogate towards the height of the user includes a system selected from a group consisting of a linear actuator mechanism and a motor and chain drive system. 17. A mutually-immersive telepresencing system for automatic user-surrogate height matching comprising: a system for determining a height of a user using a camera system; a system for monitoring a height of an image of a user on an adjustable height surrogate using a sensor; a system for transmitting the height of the user and the image of the user over a high-speed network; and a system for matching the height of the image of the user on the adjustable height surrogate and the height of the user. 18. The mutually-immersive telepresencing system as claimed in claim 17 wherein: the system for determining the height of a user includes: a system for using the head of the user to establish the height of the user. 19. The mutually-immersive telepresencing system as claimed in claim 17 wherein: the system for determining the height of the user includes: the camera system having a pair of cameras; a computer for triangulating how far the user is from the pair of cameras, and the computer for triangulating the height of the user based on how far the user is from the pair of cameras and the height of the user relative to an average height of the pair of cameras. 20. The mutually-immersive telepresencing system as claimed in claim 17 wherein: the system for determining the height of the user includes: the camera system having a pair of cameras; and a system processing images from the pair of cameras to locate the head of the user using a technique selected from a group consisting of chroma-keying and near-infrared difference keying. 21. The mutually-immersive telepresencing system as claimed in claim 17 wherein: the system for determining the height of the user includes: an adjustment for introducing a height factor to vary the match between the height of the user and the height of the image of the user on the surrogate. 22. The mutually-immersive telepresencing system as claimed in claim 17 wherein: the system for matching the height of the image of the user on the adjustable height surrogate and the height of the user includes a system selected from a group consisting of a linear actuator mechanism and a motor and chain drive system. 