An apparatus and method for processing a microelectronic substrate comprises a main chamber and a movable boundary. The main chamber comprises a main chamber wall enclosing a main chamber interior. The movable boundary is disposed within the main chamber interior, and is movable between a first position and a second position. At the first position, the movable boundary at least partially defines a sub-chamber in which a substrate can be processed. The sub-chamber is fluidly isolated from the main chamber interior, and provides an environment suitable for a high-pressure processing of the substrate such as cleaning or surface preparation. The sub-chamber can be maintained at a high pressure while the main chamber is maintained at either a low pressure, an atmospheric pressure, or at a vacuum. The apparatus can be directly coupled to an external substrate handling and/or fabrication module, such that the main chamber interior provides a buffer between the sub-chamber and the external module. At the second position of the movable boundary, the substrate can be loaded into or removed from the apparatus, such as by transfer to or from any external module provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic substrate, comprising: (a) a main chamber comprising a main chamber wall, the main chamber wall enclosing a main chamber interior; (b) a sub-chamber disposed within the main chamber interior for containing a microelectronic substrate, the sub-chamber comprising a sub-chamber wall enclosing a sub-chamber interior, wherein the sub-chamber wall comprises a boundary and the sub-chamber interior is adapted for fluid isolation from the main chamber when the sub-chamber is in a closed position; (c) a fluid conduit formed through the main chamber wall and communicating with the sub-chamber interior; and (d) a movable backstop device adapted for providing support to at least one portion of the sub-chamber wall when the sub-chamber is closed. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the sub-chamber is adapted to maintain a higher pressure in the sub-chamber interior than the main chamber. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the sub-chamber is adapted to maintain an above-atmospheric pressure in the sub-chamber interior while the main chamber interior is at a substantially atmospheric pressure. 4. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the sub-chamber is adapted to maintain an above-atmospheric pressure in the sub-chamber interior while the main chamber interior is at a below-atmospheric pressure. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1 comprising a processing medium supply source communicating with the sub-chamber interior through the fluid conduit for pressurizing the sub-chamber interior to a pressure greater than the main chamber interior. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1 comprising a vacuum source fluidly communicating with the main chamber interior. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1 comprising a vent fluidly communicating with the main chamber interior. 8. The apparatus according to claim 1 comprising a gas supply source fluidly communicating with the main chamber interior. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the fluid conduit formed through the main chamber wall is a fluid inlet conduit, the apparatus further comprising a fluid outlet conduit fluidly communicating with the sub-chamber interior. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1 comprising a sealing element disposed at an interface between the sub-chamber interior and the main chamber interior and adapted to enhance fluid isolation between the sub-chamber interior and the main chamber interior. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein the sealing element is supported by a substrate support surface disposed within the sub-chamber. 12. The apparatus according to claim 1 comprising a hermetically-sealed gate providing an interface between the main chamber interior and an environment external to the main chamber, wherein the gate is adapted to selectively provide access into the main chamber interior. 13. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the sub-chamber interior has a volume ranging from approximately 10 ml to approximately 10 l. 14. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the sub-chamber interior has a diameter ranging from approximately 50 mm to approximately 450 mm. 15. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the boundary of the sub-chamber wall is movable within the main chamber interior between a closed position and an open position, wherein at the closed position the boundary at least partially encloses the sub-chamber interior and at least partially fluidly isolates the sub-chamber interior from the main chamber. 16. The apparatus according to claim 15 wherein, at the closed position of the boundary, the boundary cooperates with an interior surface of the apparatus to enclose the sub-chamber interior and fluidly isolate the sub-chamber interior from the main chamber interior. 17. The apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the boundary of the sub-chamber wall comprises one of: (i) a substrate support surface movable in relation to a sub-chamber interior surface; or (ii) a sub-chamber interior surface movable in relation to a substrate support surface disposed within the sub-chamber interior; or (iii) a substrate support surface and a sub-chamber interior surface, wherein the substrate support surface and the sub-chamber interior surface are movable in relation to each other. 18. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic substrate, comprising: (a) a main chamber comprising a main chamber wall, the main chamber wall enclosing a main chamber interior; (b) a movable boundary disposed within the main chamber interior and movable between a first position and a second position, wherein at the first position the movable boundary at least partially defines a sub-chamber comprising a sub-chamber interior fluidly isolated from the main chamber interior; and (c) a movable backstop device adapted for providing support to the boundary when the boundary is in the first position. 19. The apparatus according to claim 18 further comprising a fluid conduit extending through the main chamber wall in communication with the sub-chamber interior. 20. The apparatus according to claim 19 wherein the fluid conduit formed through the main chamber wall is a fluid inlet conduit, the apparatus further comprising a fluid outlet conduit fluidly communicating with the sub-chamber interior. 21. The apparatus according to claim 18 comprising a processing medium supply source communicating with the sub-chamber interior for pressurizing the sub-chamber interior to a pressure greater than the main chamber interior. 22. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein, at the first position of the movable boundary, the sub-chamber interior has a higher pressure than the main chamber interior. 23. The apparatus according to claim 22 wherein, at the first position of the movable boundary, the sub-chamber interior has an above-atmospheric pressure and the main chamber interior has a substantially atmospheric pressure. 24. The apparatus according to claim 22 wherein, at the first position of the movable boundary, the sub-chamber interior has an above-atmospheric pressure and the main chamber interior has a below-atmospheric pressure. 25. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein, at the first position of the movable boundary, the boundary cooperates with an interior surface of the apparatus to enclose the sub-chamber interior and fluidly isolate the sub-chamber interior from the main chamber interior. 26. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the movable boundary comprises one of: (i) a substrate support surface movable in relation to a sub-chamber interior surface; or (ii) a sub-chamber interior surface movable in relation to a substrate support surface disposed within the sub-chamber interior; or (iii) a substrate support surface and a sub-chamber interior surface, wherein the substrate support surface and the sub-chamber interior surface are movable in relation to each other. 27. The apparatus according to claim 18 comprising a vacuum source fluidly communicating with the main chamber interior. 28. The apparatus according to claim 18 comprising a vent fluidly communicating with the main chamber interior. 29. The apparatus according to claim 18 comprising a gas supply source fluidly communicating with the main chamber interior. 30. The apparatus according to claim 18 comprising a sealing element disposed within the main chamber wherein, at the first position of the movable boundary, the sealing element fluidly isolates the sub-chamber interior from the main chamber interior. 31. The apparatus according to claim 30 wherein the sealing element is supported by a substrate support surface disposed within the sub-chamber. 32. The apparatus according to claim 18 comprising a hermetically-sealed gate providing an interface between the main chamber interior and an environment external to the main chamber, wherein the gate is adapted to selectively provide access into the main chamber interior. 33. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the sub-chamber interior has a volume ranging from approximately 10 ml to approximately 10 l. 34. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the sub-chamber interior has a diameter ranging from approximately 50 mm to approximately 450 mm. 35. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic substrate, comprising: (a) a main chamber comprising a main chamber wall, the main chamber wall enclosing a main chamber interior and comprising an interior surface; (b) a substrate support device movable within the main chamber interior between an open position and a closed position, the substrate support device comprising a substrate support surface wherein, at the closed position, the substrate support surface and the interior surface at least partially define a sub-chamber fluidly isolated from the main chamber interior; (c) a fluid conduit extending through the main chamber wall in communication with the sub-chamber; and (d) a moveable backstop device adapted for providing support to the substrate support device when the substrate support device is at the closed position. 36. The apparatus according to claim 35 wherein at least a portion of the substrate support device is constructed from a high-yield strength material. 37. The apparatus according to claim 35 wherein at least a portion of the main chamber wall is constructed from a high-yield strength material. 38. The apparatus according to claim 35 wherein the interior surface of the main chamber wall and the substrate support surface are constructed from a corrosion-resistant material. 39. The apparatus according to claim 35 wherein the interior surface of the main chamber wall and the substrate support surface are treated with a corrosion-resistant material. 40. The apparatus according to claim 35 comprising a hermetically-sealed gate providing an interface between the main chamber interior and an environment external to the main chamber wherein, at the open position of the substrate support device, the substrate support surface is generally aligned with the gate to permit access to the substrate support surface from the external environment. 41. The apparatus according to claim 35 comprising a sealing element disposed within the main chamber wherein, at the closed position of the substrate support device, the sealing element provides a fluidly sealed boundary between the sub-chamber and the main chamber interior. 42. The apparatus according to claim 41 wherein the sealing element is supported by the substrate support device and circumscribes the substrate support surface. 43. The apparatus according to claim 35 wherein, at the closed position of the substrate support device, the sub-chamber has an above-atmospheric pressure and the main chamber interior has a substantially atmospheric pressure. 44. The apparatus according to claim 35 wherein, at the closed position of the substrate support device, the sub-chamber has an above-atmospheric pressure and the main chamber interior has a below-atmospheric pressure. 45. The apparatus according to claim 35 wherein the main chamber has an end portion, the end portion has a bore opening into the main chamber, the substrate support device is movable through the bore, and the apparatus further comprises a sealing element disposed at the bore and fluidly isolating the main chamber interior from an environment external to main chamber. 46. The apparatus according to claim 35 comprising an actuator coupled to the substrate support device for moving the substrate support device between the open and closed positions. 47. An apparatus for processing substrates, comprising: (a) a movable substrate support structure comprising a substrate support surface and a sealing element; (b) a processing chamber bounded by the substrate support surface and the sealing element; (c) a main chamber surrounding the processing chamber and enclosing a main chamber interior fluidly sealable from an environment external to the main chamber and from the processing chamber; (d) an actuator coupled to the substrate support surface and adapted for controlling the processing chamber between an open state and a closed state wherein, at the closed state, the sealing element provides a fluidly isolated boundary between the processing chamber and the main chamber and, at the open state, the substrate support surface is exposed to the main chamber interior; and (e) a moveable backstop device adapted for providing support to the substrate support structure when the processing chamber is in the closed state. 48. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic substrate and adjustable between a substrate processing mode and a substrate access mode, the apparatus comprising: (a) a main chamber comprising a main chamber wall, the main chamber wall enclosing a main chamber interior; (b) an interface component mounted to the main chamber and operable between an open state and a closed state, wherein (i) at the open state, the interface component permits access into the main chamber interior from an environment external to the main chamber, and (ii) at the closed state, the interface component seals the main chamber from the external environment; (c) a boundary movable within the main chamber to a first position corresponding to the substrate processing mode and alternately to a second position corresponding to the substrate access mode, wherein (i) at the first position, the boundary at least partially defines a pressurizable sub-chamber sealingly segregated from the main chamber interior and adapted to confine a substrate, and (ii) at the second position, the boundary permits the substrate to be transferred into and out from the main chamber through the open-state interface component; and (d) a movable backstop device adapted for providing support to the boundary when the boundary is in the first position. 49. The apparatus according to claim 48 comprising a substrate handling module enclosing the external environment, wherein the interface component intercouples the main chamber and the substrate handling module. 50. The apparatus according to claim 49 wherein the substrate handling module comprises a substrate transfer chamber and a robotic end effector disposed within the substrate transfer chamber, and the interface component is adapted for accommodating movement of the end effector therethrough from the substrate transfer chamber to and from the main chamber interior. 51. The apparatus according to claim 49 wherein the main chamber and the substrate handling module enclose respective substantially atmospheric pressure environments. 52. The apparatus according to claim 51 comprising a substrate loading device coupled to the substrate handling module. 53. The apparatus according to claim 49 wherein the main chamber and the substrate handling module enclose respective vacuum environments. 54. The apparatus according to claim 53 comprising a vacuum substrate fabrication module hermetically coupled to the substrate handling module. 55. The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising a support device and wherein the backstop device is adapted to provide support to the sub-chamber wall through the support device. 56. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic substrate, comprising: (a) a main chamber comprising a main chamber wall, the main chamber wall enclosing a main chamber interior and comprising an interior surface; (b) a substrate support device movable within the main chamber interior between an open position and a closed position, the substrate support device comprising a substrate support surface wherein, at the closed position, the substrate support surface and the interior surface at least partially define a sub-chamber fluidly isolated from the main chamber interior; (c) a fluid conduit extending through the main chamber wall in communication with the sub-chamber; and (d) a backstop device mechanically referenced to the main chamber wall. 57. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic substrate, comprising: (a) a main chamber comprising a main chamber wall, the main chamber wall enclosing a main chamber interior and comprising an interior surface; (b) a substrate support device movable within the main chamber interior between an open position and a closed position, the substrate support device comprising a substrate support surface wherein, at the closed position, the substrate support surface and the interior surface at least partially define a sub-chamber fluidly isolated from the main chamber interior; (c) a fluid conduit extending through the main chamber wall in communication with the sub-chamber; and (d) a backstop device mechanically referenced to the main chamber wall, wherein the backstop device comprises a restraint member movable between the substrate support device and the structure referenced to the main chamber wall. 58. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic substrate, comprising: (a) a main chamber comprising a main chamber wall, the main chamber wall enclosing a main chamber interior and comprising an interior surface; (b) a substrate support device movable within the main chamber interior between an open position and a closed position, the substrate support device comprising a substrate support surface wherein, at the closed position, the substrate support surface and the interior surface at least partially define a sub-chamber fluidly isolated from the main chamber interior; (c) a fluid conduit extending through the main chamber wall in communication with the sub-chamber; and (d) a backstop device mechanically referenced to the main chamber wall, wherein the backstop device comprises a restraint member movable between the substrate support device and the structure referenced to the main chamber wall, and wherein the backstop device comprises an actuator and a complaint linkage intercoupling the actuator and the restraint member. 59. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic substrate, comprising: (a) a main chamber comprising a main chamber wall, the main chamber wall enclosing a main chamber interior and comprising an interior surface; (b) a substrate support device movable within the main chamber interior between an open position and a closed position, the substrate support device comprising a substrate support surface wherein, at the closed position, the substrate support surface and the interior surface at least partially define a sub-chamber fluidly isolated from the main chamber interior; (c) a fluid conduit extending through the main chamber wall in communication with the sub-chamber; and (d) a backstop device mechanically referenced to the main chamber wall, wherein the backstop device comprises a restraint member movable between the substrate support device and the structure referenced to the main chamber wall, wherein the backstop device comprises an actuator and a complaint linkage intercoupling the actuator and the restraint member, and wherein the complaint linkage comprises a rod. 60. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic substrate, comprising: (a) a main chamber comprising a main chamber wall, the main chamber wall enclosing a main chamber interior and comprising an interior surface; (b) a substrate support device movable within the main chamber interior between an open position and a closed position, the substrate support device comprising a substrate support surface wherein, at the closed position, the substrate support surface and the interior surface at least partially define a sub-chamber fluidly isolated from the main chamber interior; (c) a fluid conduit extending through the main chamber wall in communication with the sub-chamber; and (d) a backstop device mechanically referenced to the main chamber wall, wherein the backstop device comprises a restraint member movable between the substrate support device and the structure referenced to the main chamber wall, wherein the backstop device comprises an actuator and a complaint linkage intercoupling the actuator and the restraint member, and wherein the complaint linkage comprises a rod having a length ranging from approximately 10 mm to approximately 100 mm. 61. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic substrate, comprising: (a) a main chamber comprising a main chamber wall, the main chamber wall enclosing a main chamber interior and comprising an interior surface; (b) a substrate support device movable within the main chamber interior between an open position and a closed position, the substrate support device comprising a substrate support surface wherein, at the closed position, the substrate support surface and the interior surface at least partially define a sub-chamber fluidly isolated from the main chamber interior; (c) a fluid conduit extending through the main chamber wall in communication with the sub-chamber; and (d) a backstop device mechanically referenced to the main chamber wall, wherein the backstop device comprises a restraint member movable between the substrate support device and the structure referenced to the main chamber wall, wherein the backstop device comprises an actuator and a complaint linkage intercoupling the actuator and the restraint member, and wherein the complaint linkage comprises a rod having a length ranging from approximately 10 mm to approximately 100 mm and having a diameter ranging from approximately 1 mm to approximately 5 mm. 62. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic substrate, comprising: (a) a main chamber comprising a main chamber wall, the main chamber wall enclosing a main chamber interior and comprising an interior surface; (b) a substrate support device movable within the main chamber interior between an open position and a closed position, the substrate support device comprising a substrate support surface wherein, at the closed position, the substrate support surface and the interior surface at least partially define a sub-chamber fluidly isolated from the main chamber interior; (c) a fluid conduit extending through the main chamber wall in communication with the sub-chamber; and (d) a backstop device mechanically referenced to the main chamber wall, wherein the backstop device comprises a restraint member movable between the substrate support device and the structure referenced to the main chamber wall, wherein the backstop device comprises an actuator and a complaint linkage intercoupling the actuator and the restraint member, and wherein the complaint linkage comprises at least two rods. 