A robot hand finger makes a hooking movement similar to that of the human fingers with less number of driving units by installing a 4-joint link. A robot hand includes several fingers and 4-joint link in order to implement a horizontal movement of the fingers. A robot hand selectively drives a hooking movement and a horizontal movement of fingers with less number of driving units by having a clutch unit. A robot hand includes fingers with a strain gage and is able to control a grasping force by using a value measured by the strain gage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot hand comprising: a robot hand base portion; two moving fingers installed facing each side of the hand base portion; first and second horizontal moving guides installed at each said moving finger facing each other, of which one end is binge-coupled at the hand base portion and the other end is hinge-coupled at the moving finger, so as to form a parallelogram 4-joint link structure to force the moving finger to move in a direction extending along a side of the moving finger; a horizontal moving unit for making the horizontal moving guides to be rotated on the basis of a shaft hinge-coupled at the hand base portion, said horizontal moving unit comprising: a second driving motor for driving the horizontal moving guides to be rotated centering around a shaft hinge-coupled with the hand base portion; and a horizontal movement driving force transfer unit installed between the second driving motor and the horizontal moving guides so that the horizontal moving guides are rotated by using a driving force of the second driving motor, said horizontal movement driving force transfer unit comprising two moving worm gears formed at one of the first and second horizontal moving guides respectively coupled to the two moving fingers, two moving worms installed to be simultaneously in mesh with the two moving worm gears, and a clutch unit for driving the moving worms by means of the second driving motor. 2. The robot hand of claim 1, wherein the clutch unit comprises: a fourth bevel gear coaxially formed with a rotational shaft of the moving worm; a second bevel gear installed to be in mesh with the fourth bevel gear; a first bevel gear coaxially installed with the second bevel gear; and a third bevel gear installed to be in mesh with the first bevel gear and fixed at a driving shaft of the second driving motor. 3. The robot hand of claim 1, wherein four moving fingers are installed, facing each other two by two, and the first and second horizontal moving guides are installed at each moving finger. 4. A robot hand comprising: a robot hand base portion; a moving finger installed at the side of the hand base portion; first and second horizontal moving guides installed facing each other, of which one end is hinge-coupled at the hand base portion and the other end is hinge-coupled at the moving finger, so as to form a parallelogram 4-joint link structure to force the moving finger to move in a direction extending along a side of the moving finger; a second driving motor for making the horizontal moving guides to be rotated on the basis of a shaft hinge-coupled at the hand base portion; a horizontal movement driving force transferring unit installed between the second driving motor and the horizontal moving guides so as for the horizontal moving guides to be rotated by using a driving force of the second driving motor; a moving finger hooking unit to allow the moving finger to make a hooking movement; a fixed finger having a first phalanx fixed at the side of the hand base portion and a second phalanx hinge-coupled at the end of the first phalanx by a first joint; a fixed finger hooking unit installed between the second driving motor and the fixed finger to allow the fixed finger to make a hooking movement by using the driving force of the second driving motor; and a clutch unit selectively transferring the driving force of the second driving motor to one of the horizontal movement driving force transferring unit and the fixed finger hooking unit by the hooking movement of the moving finger. 5. The robot hand of claim 4, wherein the moving finger includes a first phalanx hinge-coupled with the first and second horizontal moving guides so that the binge shaft faces in the longitudinal direction of the moving finger, and a second phalanx binge-coupled with the distal end of the first phalanx by a first axis; the horizontal movement driving force transfer unit includes a moving worm gear formed at either one of the first and second horizontal moving guides and a moving worm formed to be in mesh with the moving worm gear; the fixed finger hooking unit includes a fixed finger bending worm gear formed at the second phalanx of the fixed finger and a fixed finger bending worm installed to be in mesh with the fixed finger bending worm gear, and the clutch unit includes a third bevel gear formed at a driving shaft of the second driving motor, a fifth bevel gear installed facing the third bevel gear and coaxially formed with the fixed finger bending worm, a fourth bevel gear coaxially formed with the moving worm, a clutch shaft parallel to a rotational shaft of the moving worm and installed movable in a longitudinal direction between the third bevel gear and the fifth bevel gear, a cam unit for changing the hooking movement of the moving finger to a linear movement of the clutch shaft, a sixth bevel gear formed at the clutch shaft so as to be simultaneously in mesh with the third bevel gear and the fifth bevel gear, and first and second bevel gears formed at the clutch shaft so as to be in mesh with the third bevel gear and the fourth bevel gear according to movement of the clutch shaft. 6. The robot hand of claim 5, wherein the cam unit comprises: a cam engaging jaw formed at the second phalanx of the moving finger; a cam follower making a linear movement in association with the cam engaging jaw by the hooking movement of the second phalanx of the moving finger; a wire connecting the cam follower and the clutch shaft; a wire guide covering the wire and fixed at the horizontal moving guide; and an elastic member installed between the wire guide and the clutch shaft. 7. The robot hand of claim 6, wherein the moving fingers, the first and second horizontal moving guides, the moving worm gears are installed to be symmetrical to each other, and the moving worm is simultaneously in mesh with the moving worm gears. 8. The robot hand of claim 7, wherein the moving finger and the fixed finger comprises: a third phalanx of which one end is hinge-coupled with the distal end of the second phalanx by a second axis; and an auxiliary link of which one end is hinge-coupled with the first phalanx and the other end is hinge-coupled with the third phalanx so as to cross a straight line connecting the first axis and the second axis, in order to construct a 4-joint link forcing the third phalanx to be moved dependent on a rotational movement of the second phalanx. 9. The robot hand of claim 8, wherein the moving finger hooking unit comprises: a bending worm gear formed at the second phalanx; a bending worm coupled to be in mesh with the bending worm gear; and a first driving motor for driving the bending worm. 10. The robot hand of claim 9, further comprising: a strain gage installed at the third phalanxes of the moving finger and the fixed finger; a calculating unit for calculating a strength of a force applied to the third phalanx by measuring a voltage value form the strain gage; and a controller for controlling the first driving motor and the second driving motor by using the strength of the force calculated by the calculating unit. 11. The robot hand of claim 8, wherein the moving finger hooking unit includes a cylinder of which one end is connected to the first phalanx and the other end is connected to the second phalanx. 12. The robot hand of claim 11, further comprising: a strain gage installed at the third phalanxes of the moving finger and the fixed finger; a calculating unit for calculating a strength of a force applied to the third phalanx by measuring a voltage value form the strain gage; and a controller for controlling the cylinder and the second driving motor by using the strength of the force calculated by the calculating unit. 13. A robot hand finger comprising: a first phalanx; a second phalanx of which one end is hinge-coupled with the distal end of the first phalanx by a first axis; a third phalanx of which one end is hinge-coupled with the distal end of the second phalanx by a second axis; an auxiliary link of which one end is hinge-coupled with the first phalanx and the other end is hinge-coupled with the third phalanx so as to cross a straight line connecting the first axis and the second axis, in order to construct a 4-joint link which forces the third phalanx to be moved dependent on a rotational movement of the second phalanx; and a finger hooking unit for rotating the second phalanx centering around the first axis, said finger hooking unit comprising: a bending worm gear formed at the second phalanx; a bending worm moved in mesh with the bending worm gear; and a first driving motor for driving the bending worm. 14. The robot hand finger of claim 13, wherein the finger hooking unit includes a tension unit of which one end is connected to the first phalanx and the other end is connected to the second phalanx. 15. A robot hand finger comprising: a first phalanx; a second phalanx of which one end is hinge-coupled with the distal end of the first phalanx by a first axis; a third phalanx of which one end is hinge-coupled with the distal end of the second phalanx by a second axis; an auxiliary link of which one end is hinge-coupled with the first phalanx and the other end is hinge-coupled with the third phalanx so as to cross a straight line connecting the first axis and the second axis, in order to construct a 4-joint link which forces the third phalanx to be moved dependent on a rotational movement of the second phalanx; and a finger hooking unit for rotating the second phalanx centering around the first axis, said finger hooking unit including a tension unit of which one end is connected to the first phalanx and the other end is connected to the second phalanx. 16. The robot hand finger of claim 15, further comprising a connector of which one end is fixed at the first phalanx and the other end is hinge-coupled with the auxiliary link. 