A multi-lap mold manufacturing system includes an overhead rail circuit upon which a multiple of molds transit a closed loop for a multiple of laps. The system is separated into Zones in which a particular mold operation is performed relative to which lap each of the plurality of molds has completed. At least one of the Zones is a spray Zone in which the mold is sprayed robotically. Robot utilization is extremely high as multiple spray operations occur in but a few spray Zones. Application of exceedingly expensive environmental emission control devices is at least partially mitigated by the reduced number of spray stations and the much smaller factory footprint. Consolidation of multiple spray operations into a few spray Zones also advantageously simplifies the control of chemical and ambient variables which improves production efficiencies and reduces operator dependency.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of molding an article comprising the steps of: (1) defining a closed circuit; (2) ordering a plurality of open molds in a reoccurring sequence dependent upon which lap each of the plurality of molds has completed; (3) transiting the plurality of open molds about the closed circuit for a plurality of laps; and (4) performing a predetermined series of operations on each of the plurality of open molds during each of said plurality of laps, at least one of said plurality of operations comprising an environmentally controlled applying operation, the predetermined series of operations including transiting the plurality of open molds through the environmentally controlled applying operation as a multiple of sets in which each set includes a reoccurring sequence of open molds in which each open mold within each set is on a different lap. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of: queuing the plurality of molds prior to said environmentally controlled applying operation. 3. A method as recited in claim 2, wherein said ordering step further comprises the step of: segregating the plurality of molds into a first and a second parallel queue relative to which lap each of the plurality of molds has completed prior to said applying operation. 4. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of: segregating the plurality of molds into a first and a second parallel queue relative to which lap each of the plurality of molds has completed; transiting a first mold from the first queue through a first environmentally controlled applying operation; and transiting a second mold from the second queue through a second environmentally controlled applying operation. 5. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: transiting the first mold from the first environmentally controlled applying operation to a third queue along a common circuit with said first queue; and transiting the second mold from the second environmentally controlled applying operation to a fourth queue along a common circuit with said second queue. 6. A method as recited in claim 5, further comprising the steps of: merging the first mold from the third queue with the second mold from the fourth queue into a fifth queue; curing the first mold and the second mold within the fifth queue. 7. A method as recited in claim 5, further comprising the steps of: releasing the first mold from the third queue; releasing the second mold and a third mold from the fourth queue; merging the first mold from the third queue with the second mold and the third mold from the fourth queue into a fifth queue such that the molds within the fifth queue are sequenced in a predetermined order; and curing the molds within the fifth queue. 8. A method as recited in claim 7, further comprising the steps of: releasing the first mold, second mold and the third mold from the fifth queue as a set of molds sequenced in said predetermined order. 9. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: generating an airflow from a plurality of blower ports to a plurality of exhaust parts. 10. A method as recited in claim 9, further comprising the steps of: directing the airflow toward the environmentally controlled applying operation. 11. A method as recited in claim 10, further comprising the steps of: directing the airflow toward the environmentally controlled applying operation from a first and a second direction. 12. A method as recited in claim 9, further comprising the steps of: exhausting the airflow directly from each of the environmentally controlled applying operation. 13. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of: tracking each of the molds individually. 14. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: locating a sensor at a decision point along the closed circuit; communicating between the sensor and each of the open molds which transit thereby; and directing the mold in response to said communicating step. 15. A method as recited in claim 14, further comprising the step of: locating the sensor prior to a split along the closed circuit. 16. A method as recited in claim 14, further comprising the step of: locating the sensor prior to the environmentally controlled applying operation. 17. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: locating a mold clamp actuator at a predetermined position along the closed circuit; communicating between the mold clamp actuator and a central controller; and selectively operating the mold clamp actuator to selectively prevent the transiting of one of the plurality of open molds about the closed circuit in response to said communicating step. 18. A method as recited in claim 17, further comprising the step of: locating the mold clamp actuator prior to the environmentally controlled applying operation. 19. A method as recited in claim 17, further comprising the step of: locating the mold clamp actuator after each of a first and a second parallel queue. 20. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the environmentally controlled applying operation further comprises a spraying step. 21. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said step (4) further comprises ordering each open mold within each set in a third lap, first lap, second lap sequence prior to entering the environmentally controlled operation. 22. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said step (3) further comprises: continually cycling through three positions. 23. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of: starting-up and shutting-down the transiting or the plurality of open molds in a staged manner. 