A system and method for heat treating castings and removing sand cores therefrom. The castings are initially located in indexed positions with their x, y, and z coordinates known. The castings are passed through a heat treatment station typically having a series of nozzles mounted in preset positions corresponding to the known indexed positions of the castings passing through the heat treatment station. The nozzles apply fluid to the castings for heat treating the castings and degrading the sand cores for removal from the castings.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for processing castings comprising: a series of molds each containing a core and in which a molten metal is received to define and form a casting; a series of saddles adapted to receive the castings in a desired orientation having known, indexed position coordinates; and a heat treatment station in which the saddles, with the castings located in their known, indexed positions therein, are received for heat treatment of the castings and core removal, said heat treatment station including: at least one heating zone through which the castings are moved with the castings oriented in predefined, known positions, and wherein a fluid media is applied to the castings to heat treat the castings and degrade said cores within the castings. 2. The system of claim 1 and wherein said heat treatment station includes a plurality of nozzle stations each comprising a series of robotically operated nozzles adapted to move about the castings between at least first and second nozzle positions in alignment with a series of core openings formed in the castings for directing the fluid media toward the castings from different directions to degrade the cores. 3. The system of claim 1 and wherein said saddles each include a series of walls defining a casting receptacle and a plurality of locating devices positioned within said casting receptacle, so as to engage and guide the castings into their known, indexed positions having known position coordinates within said saddles. 4. The system of claim 3 and wherein said locating devices comprise guide pins and wherein the castings are formed in said molds with corresponding locating openings in which said guide pins are received for locating the castings in their known, indexed positions within said saddles. 5. The system of claim 1 and wherein said molds include an internal heating source for preheating said molds and at least partially heat treating the castings. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said internal heating source comprises a heated fluid media received and/or circulated through said molds for heating said molds internally to a soak temperature for at least partially heat treating the castings therewithin. 7. The system of claim 1 and further comprising a radiant chamber positioned upstream from said heat treatment station and having at least one heat source, wherein heat is applied to the castings as they are received and move through said radiant chamber sufficient to arrest cooling of the castings to at least a process control temperature prior to the castings being moved into said heat treatment station. 8. The system of claim 7 and further comprising a source of fluid media within the radiant chamber for directing the fluid media into the casting to degrade the core therein. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said cores are formed of material that is soluble in said fluid media applied to the castings. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said fluid media is selected from water, steam, organic solvents, thermal oils and combinations thereof. 