Track anomalies in an automated storage library are detected by transmitting a track health signal from one portion of the track. The presence of a track anomaly is determined based on any reception of the transmitted signal at another portion of the track.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting track anomalies in an automated storage library having at least one robotic device servicing data storage requests, the method comprising: forming a track having a first end and a second end, at least one robotic device operative to access data storage devices by moving along the track; transmitting a track health signal from the first end of the track section; and determining the presence of a track anomaly based on any reception of the transmitted signal at the second end of the track. 2. A method of detecting track anomalies in an automated storage library as in claim 1 further comprising determining the presence of a track anomaly based on any reception of the transmitted signal by a robotic device located along the track. 3. A method of detecting track anomalies in an automated storage library as in claim 2 further comprising transmitting a second track health signal from the robotic device. 4. A method of detecting track anomalies in an automated storage library as in claim 2 further comprising transmitting the determination of the presence of a track anomaly from the robotic device through the track. 5. A method of detecting track anomalies in an automated storage library as in claim 1 further comprising transmitting a signal indicative of the presence of an anomaly from the second end of the track to the first end of the track. 6. A method of detecting track anomalies in an automated storage library as in claim 5 further comprising: waiting for a timeout period after transmitting a track health signal from the first end of the track; and determining an anomaly on the track if no response is received at the first end. 7. A method of detecting track anomalies in an automated storage library as in claim 1 further comprising: determining that a track anomaly exists in the track moving a robotic device along the track section, the robotic device having two contacts spaced apart along a length of the track, the robotic device forming a signal path between the two contacts; and detecting a location of the track anomaly based on a position of the robotic device along the track. 8. A method of detecting track anomalies in an automated storage library as in claim 1 wherein the track health signal is a time varying signal, the track anomaly detected by differences between the time varying signal as transmitted and as received. 9. A method of detecting track anomalies in an automated storage library as in claim 1 wherein the track health signal is a high-current DC signal, the track anomaly detected by differences between the high-current signal as transmitted and as received. 10. A method of detecting track anomalies in an automated storage library as in claim 1 further comprising at least one transceiver located along the track section away from both the first end and the second end, each transceiver transmitting a track health signal and determining the presence of a track anomaly based on any reception of a transmitted health signal. 11. A data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage locations for holding data storage media disposed within the library; a rail disposed within the library located to provide access to the storage locations; a conductor on the rail; at least one robotic device mounted to travel along the rail, the robotic device accessing storage media held in the storage locations; a transmitter in communication with the conductor, the transmitter operative to transmit a track health signal onto the conductor; and a receiver in communication with the conductor, the receiver operative to receive the track health signal and to determine track health based on the transmitted track health signal. 12. A data storage library as in claim 11 wherein the rail has a first end and a second end and wherein the transmitter is located at the first end. 13. A data storage library as in claim 11 wherein the rail has a first end and a second end and wherein the receiver is located at the second end. 14. A data storage library as in claim 11 wherein the receiver is located within at least one robotic device. 15. A data storage library as in claim 11 wherein the transmitter is located within at least one robotic device. 16. A data storage library as in claim 11 further comprising a plurality of receivers spaced along the rail, each receiver operative to receive the track health signal. 17. A data storage library as in claim 11 further comprising a plurality of transmitters spaced along the rail, each transmitter operative to transmit a track health signal onto the conductor. 18. A data storage library as in claim 11 wherein the track health signal is a time varying signal, the track health determined by differences between the time varying signal as transmitted and as received. 19. A data storage library as in claim 11 wherein the track health signal is a high-current DC signal, the track health determined by differences between the high-current signal as transmitted and as received. 20. A data storage library as in claim 11 wherein each robotic device has at least one pair of brushes making contact with the conductor, the brushes spaced apart along a direction of travel of the robotic device along the rail, the robotic device forming an electrical circuit between the brushes. 21. A data storage library as in claim 20 further comprising a controller operative to move the robotic device along the rail whereby a defect in the rail is located when the health signal travels through the robotic device electrical circuit and around at least a portion of the defect. 22. A method of determining the health of track used in an automated storage library having at least one robotic device servicing data storage requests by moving along the track, the method comprising: transmitting a track health signal through a conductor, the conductor following the track, the conductor supplying electrical current for operation of the at least one robotic device; sensing presence of the track health signal on the conductor; and determining track health based on the transmitted track health signal and on the sensed presence of the track health signal. 