A method and apparatus is provided for determining substrate drift from its nominal or intended position. The apparatus includes at least two fixed reference points. The reference points can be fixed with respect to the processing tool, or with respect to the end effector. As a robotic arm moves the end effector and substrate along a path, a camera captures images of the edge of the substrate and the reference points. Two or more cameras can also be provided. A computer can then calculate positional drift of the substrate, relative to its expected or centered position on the end effector, based upon these readings, and this drift can be corrected in subsequent robotic arm movement.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for positioning a substrate, comprising: an end effector configured to transport the substrate along a path; at least one reference mark; at least one camera positioned to capture two images, each image including at least one reference mark and a different portion of an edge of the substrate; and a processor configured to calculate a difference in position of the substrate relative to an ideal substrate position, the processor receiving input from the at least one camera. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one reference mark comprises at least two reference marks fixed with respect to the end effector. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein each of the at least two reference marks are provided directly on the end effector. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein each of the at least two reference marks is provided on a reference mark holder attached to the end effector. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein each of the at least two reference marks comprises a series of reference markings. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the at least two reference marks are spaced along a line substantially perpendicular to the path. 7. An apparatus for positioning a substrate, comprising; an end effector configured to transport the substrate along a path; at least one reference mark; at least one camera positioned to capture two images, each image including at least one reference mark and a different portion of an edge of the substrate, whereung the at least one camera has no more than a 50 mm.times.50 mm field of view; and a processor configured to calculate a difference in position of the substrate relative to an ideal substrate position, the processor receiving input from the at least one camera. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the at least one camera has no more than a 20 mm.times.20 mm field of view. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the at least one camera has no more than a 10 mm.times.10 mm field of view. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one camera is a charge coupled device. 11. An apparatus for positioning a substrate, comprising: an end effector configured to transport the substrate along a path; at least one reference mark; at least one camera positioned to capture two images, each image including at least one reference mark and a different portion of an edge of the substrate, wherein the at least one camera is triggered by a sensor which detects the presence or absence of the substrate within a field of view of the camera; and a processor configured to calculate a difference in position of the substrate relative to an ideal substrate position, the processor receiving input from the at least one camera. 12. An apparatus for positioning a substrate, comprising: an end effector configured to transport the substrate along a path; at least one reference mark; at least one camera positioned to capture two images, each image including at least one reference mark and a different portion of an edge of the substrate, wherein the at least one camera is triggered by a timer; and a processor configured to calculate a difference in position of the substrate relative to an ideal substrate position, the processor receiving input from the at least one camera. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one camera comprises a charge coupled device that is triggered by a change in pixel values corresponding to the presence or absence of the substrate. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the charge coupled device is triggered by a certain number of pixels registering a light intensity above or below a certain threshold level. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the charge coupled device is triggered by an overall light intensity detected by the charge coupled device crossing a certain threshold level. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one camera comprises a first camera positioned to capture an image of a second reference mark. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the first camera and the second camera capture their respective images at about the same time. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the processor is configured to calculate a distance between the substrate edge and one of the reference marks. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the processor is configured to calculate the difference in position of the substrate relative to the ideal substrate position without calculating an actual wafer center point. 20. An apparatus for positioning a substrate, comprising: an end effector configured to transport the substrate along a path; at least one reference mark; at least one camera positioned to capture two images, each image including at least one reference mark and a different portion of an edge of the substrate; and a processor configured to calculate a difference in position of the substrate relative to an ideal substrate position, the processor receiving input from the at least one camera, wherein the processor is configured to calculate a center point for the substrate and a drift of the substrate with respect to an ideal center point on the end effector. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the processor is configured to calculate positional changes for compensating for the calculated difference in position. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the processor is configured to instruct a robot connected to the end effector in response to the calculated positional changes. 23. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the processor is configured to identify a flat or notch on the substrate. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the processor is configured to interpolate a virtual edge for the substrate near a reference mark when a flat or notch is identified. 25. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one reference mark is fixed with respect to the at least one camera. 26. An apparatus for positioning a substrate, comprising: an end effector configured to transport the substrate along a path; at least two reference marks fixed with respect to the end effector; at least one camera positioned to capture two images, each image including one of the reference marks and a different portion of an edge of the substrate; and a processor configured to calculate a position of the substrate relative to the reference marks, the processor receiving input from the at least one camera. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the at least on camera comprises a single camera positioned to capture the two images as the end effector travels along the path. 