A prealigner for aligning a disk-like work piece such as a silicon wafer, by centering and rotationally orienting the work piece. The prealigner centers and orients the work piece while only touching the periphery of the work piece using a plurality of wafer rollers and an air bearing table to support the weight of the wafer. The prealigner can accept a range of different diameters of work piece without modification because the wafer rollers are radially moveable until they contact and center the work piece. The prealigner includes a plurality of simple optical sensors for detecting a notch in the work piece and the work piece is rotationally oriented based on a notch detection signal from the optical sensors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for centering and aligning a disk-like article having an outer periphery comprising; a main body having a center point; a plurality of rollers that are moveably attached to said main body wherein each of said rollers is radially moveable relative to said center point and rotatable about its respective axis of rotation; wherein said rollers contact the periphery of said disk-like article when they are moved radially inward, thereby centering said disk-like article concentrically with the center point of said main body and wherein said rollers are capable of spinning said disk-like article when contacting the edges of said disk-like article whereby said disk-like article can be rotationally oriented. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said rollers are radially moveable by a distance sufficient to allow alignment and orientation of disk-like articles that have a variation in diameter of up to 6 inches. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said disk-like article is held in a substantially horizontal position when said rollers contact the periphery of said disk-like article. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said rollers are radially moveable by a distance sufficient to allow disk-like articles of varying sizes to be aligned and oriented in said apparatus. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said rollers support at least a portion of the weight of said disk-like article when they contact the periphery of said disk-like article. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said disk-like article is held in a substantially horizontal position when said rollers contact the periphery of said disk-like article. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a sensor to detect when said rollers make contact with the periphery of said disk-like article and a controller that stops motion of said rollers based on data from said sensor. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a belt drive that moves said rollers radially relative to said center point and wherein said sensor comprises a tension sensor on said belt drive. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a notch sensor attached to said main body for detecting a discontinuity in the periphery of said disk-like article. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said rollers spin said disk-like article to a predetermined orientation based upon a signal from said notch sensor. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said notch sensor comprises a light source and a light receiver both disposed on one side of said disk-like article wherein said light receiver detects light from said light source that is reflected off of the surface of said disk-like article. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said apparatus includes exactly three rollers that are moveably attached to said main body and wherein each of said three rollers is radially moveable relative to said center point and rotatable about its respective axis of rotation. 13. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein each of said rollers comprises a central vertical portion with a first slope and a lip attached to the bottom of said central vertical portion with a second slope that is shallower than said first slope wherein said disk-like article is supported on said lip when said rollers contact the periphery of said disk-like article. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said disk-like article is held in a substantially horizontal position when said rollers contact the periphery of said disk-like article. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said main body comprises a plate with apertures therein and a blower that forces a flow of air through said apertures to create an air bearing support for supporting at least a portion of the weight of said disk-like article. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said disk-like article is held in a substantially horizontal position when said rollers contact the periphery of said disk-like article. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said rollers support at least a portion of the weight of said disk-like article when they contact the periphery of said disk-like article. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said disk-like article is held in a substantially horizontal position when said rollers contact the periphery of said disk-like article. 