An automotive vehicle sound absorption system. An expandable material, such as an polymer-based foam, is disposed on a surface of a wall. Upon activation, the foam transforms, preferably during an automobile assembly operation, and remains bonded to surface for sound absorption.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for reducing noise in an automotive vehicle, comprising: (a) providing an automated system that includes a mini-applicator having an extruder; (b) elevating a temperature of an expandable acoustical material with the automated system thereby softening the expandable material without substantially expanding the expandable material; (c) providing a surface of a member of the automotive vehicle, the member being positioned in a beltline location of the automotive vehicle upon assembly of the vehicle; (d) extruding with the mini-applicator the thermally expandable plastic acoustical material at the elevated temperature onto the surface; (e) bonding the expandable material to the surface wherein the expandable material includes a plurality of nodes, which are substantially spaced apart from each other; (f) activating the expandable material to initiate formation of a cellular foam by exposing the expandable material to temperatures ranging from about 145.degree. C. to about 210.degree. C. in an automobile e-coat operation; and (g) expanding the expandable material such that the cellular foam exhibits a relatively high degree of sound absorption, wherein: i) said plurality of nodes expand away from the surface and toward each other such that the plurality of nodes combine together to form a mass, said mass providing an exposed surface that is partially formed from each of the plurality of nodes; ii) said exposed surface of said mass has an irregular topography with curved surfaces of varying heights and shapes. 2. A method as in claim 1, wherein he expandable material has a linear geometry upon bonding. 3. A method as in claim claim 1, wherein the expandable material has a component selected from the group consisting of an ethylene copolymer, an ethylene terpolymer and an epoxy material. 4. A method as in claim 1, wherein the automated system includes a robot device. 5. A method as in claim 1, further comprising assembling the member to the automotive vehicle. 6. A method as in claim 5, wherein t e member is a portion of a door of the automotive vehicle. 7. A method as in claim 6, wherein the location of the member makes the member a portion of a window frame. 8. A method as in claim 1, wherein the automobile e-coat operation is an e-coat preparation step. 9. A method as in claim 1, wherein he expandable material is relatively free of tack to the touch after bonding to the surface. 10. A method as in claim 1, wherein a substantial portion of the exposed surface does not contact any portion of the automotive vehicle to allow the mass to absorb sound of variable frequencies. 11. A method for reducing noise in an automotive vehicle, comprising: (a) providing an automated system that includes a mini-applicator having a robotic device for moving an extruder; (b) elevating a temperature of an expandable acoustical material with the automated system thereby softening the expandable material without substantially expanding the expandable material, the expandable material having a component selected from the group consisting of an ethylene copolymer, an ethylene terpolymer and an epoxy material; (c) providing a surface of a member of the automotive vehicle, the member being positioned in a beltline location of the automotive vehicle upon assembly of the vehicle; (d) extruding with the mini-applicator the thermally expandable plastic acoustical material at the elevated temperature onto the surface; (e) bonding the expandable material to the surface, the expandable material including a plurality of nodes having a linear geometry upon bonding, the expandable material being relatively free of tack to the touch after bonding; (f) activating the expandable material to initiate formation of a cellular foam by exposing the expandable material to temperatures ranging from about 145.degree. C. to about 210.degree. C. in an automobile e-coat operation; and (g) expanding the expandable material such that the cellular foam exhibits a relatively high degree of sound absorption, wherein: i) said plurality of nodes expand away from the surface and toward each other such that the plurality of nodes combine together to form a mass, said mass providing an exposed surface that is partially formed from each of the plurality of nodes; ii) said exposed surface of said mass has an irregular topography with curved surfaces of varying heights and shapes. 12. A method as in claim 11, wherein the member is a portion of a door of the automotive vehicle and a portion of a window frame. 13. A method as in claim 11, wherein the member extends from a pillar region of the automotive vehicle to a door region. 14. A method for reducing noise in an automotive vehicle, comprising: (a) providing an automated system that includes a mini-applicator having a robotic device for moving an extruder; (b) elevating a temperature of an expandable acoustical material above a melting point of the expandable acoustical material with the automated system thereby softening the expandable material without substantially expanding the expandable material, the expandable material having olefinic component and a component selected from the group consisting of an ethylene copolymer, an ethylene terpolymer and an epoxy material; (c) providing a surface of a member of the automotive vehicle, the member being positioned in a beltline location of the automotive vehicle upon assembly of the vehicle; (d) extruding with the mini-applicator the thermally expandable plastic acoustical material at the elevated temperature onto the surface; (e) bonding the expandable material to the surface, the expandable material having a linear geometry upon bonding, the expandable material being relatively free of tack to the touch after bonding wherein the expandable material includes a plurality of nodes, which are substantially spaced apart from each other; (f) activating the expandable material to initiate formation of a cellular foam by exposing the expandable material to temperatures ranging from about 145.degree. C. to about 210.degree. C. in an automobile e-coat operation; and (g) expanding the expandable material such that the cellular foam exhibits a relatively high degree of sound absorption and such that the cellular foam is at least 1000 percent the size of the expandable material after expansion of the expandable material wherein: i) said plurality of nodes expand away from he surface and toward each other such that the plurality of nodes combine together to form a mass, said mass providing an exposed surface that is partially formed from each of the plurality of nodes; ii) said exposed surface of said mass has an irregular topography with curved surfaces of varying heights and shapes; and iii) a substantial portion of the exposed surface does not contact any portion of said automotive vehicle to allow said mass to absorb sound of variable frequencies. 