A pulse-echo sonar scanner for a mobile robot includes a transmitter which generates a pulse signal, an acoustic transducer which transmits and receives acoustic signals, a receiver, means for determining performance characteristics of the transducer for a given pulse, means for storing the performance characteristics, and means for determining threshold levels for an echo based on the stored performance characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: transmitting a signal; receiving a first echo in response to the signal; and receiving a second echo in response to the signal; wherein if an amplitude of the first echo exceeds a corresponding amplitude of the second echo, then the second echo is determined to be a multipath error from a single object; and wherein if an amplitude of the second echo exceeds a corresponding amplitude of the first echo, then the first and second echoes are determined to be from first and second objects, respectively, and the method further comprises: using the first echo to determine information relating to the first object; and using the second echo to determine information relating to the second object. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the information relating to the first object comprises a distance to the first object. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the information relating to the second object comprises a distance to the second object. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing data that corresponds to the first echo and/or the second echo. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first object is acoustically-weaker than the second object. 6. A method comprising: transmitting a waveform having a predetermined shape; receiving a signal; analyzing a shape of the signal; and determining if the signal comprises an echo of the waveform based on analysis of the shape of the signal and the waveform having the predetermined shape; wherein, if the signal has substantially the predetermined shape, the signal is determined to be an echo of the waveform. 7. A method comprising: transmitting a waveform having a predetermined shape; receiving a signal; analyzing a shape of the signal; and determining if the signal comprises an echo of the waveform based on analysis of the shape of the signal and the waveform having the predetermined shape; wherein, if the signal deviates beyond a certain tolerance from the predetermined shape, the signal is determined not to be an echo of the waveform. 8. An apparatus comprising: a transducer which transmits a signal; a receiver which receives a first echo and a second echo in response to the signal; and a processor which compares amplitudes of the first and second echoes; wherein if an amplitude of the first echo exceeds a corresponding amplitude of the second echo, then the processor determines that the second echo is a multipath error from a single object; and wherein if an amplitude of the second echo exceeds a corresponding amplitude of the first echo, then the processor determines that the first and second echoes are from first and second objects, respectively, and the processor: uses the first echo to determine information relating to the first object; and uses the second echo to determine information relating to the second object. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the information relating to the first object comprises a distance to the first object. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the information relating to the second object comprises a distance to the second object. 11. The apparatus of claim 8; further comprising a memory which stores data that corresponds to the first echo and/or the second echo. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first object is acoustically-weaker than the second object. 13. An apparatus comprising: a transducer which transmits a waveform having a predetermined shape; a receiver which receives a signal; and a processor which analyzes a shape of the signal, and determines if the signal comprises an echo of the waveform based on analysis of the shape of the signal and the waveform having the predetermined shape; wherein, if the signal has substantially the predetermined shape, the signal is determined to be an echo of the waveform. 14. An apparatus comprising: a transducer which transmits a waveform having a predetermined shape; a receiver which receives a signal; and a processor which analyzes a shape of the signal, and determines if the signal comprises an echo of the waveform based on analysis of the shape of the signal and the waveform having the predetermined shape; wherein, if the signal deviates beyond a certain tolerance from the predetermined shape, the signal is determined not to be an echo of the waveform. 15. A computer program stored on a computer-readable medium, the computer program comprising instructions that cause a processor to: cause a signal to be transmitted; receive a first echo in response to the signal; and receive a second echo in response to the signal; wherein if an amplitude of the first echo exceeds a corresponding amplitude of the second echo, then the second echo is determined to be a multipath error from a single object; and wherein if an amplitude of the second echo exceeds a corresponding amplitude of the first echo, then the first and second echoes are determined to be from first and second objects, respectively, and the computer program provides for: using the first echo to determine information relating to the first object; and using the second echo to determine information relating to the second object. 16. The computer program of claim 15, wherein the information relating to the first object comprises a distance to the first object. 17. The computer program of claim 15, wherein the information relating to the second object comprises a distance to the second object. 18. The computer program of claim 15, further comprising instructions to store data that corresponds to the first echo and/or the second echo. 19. The computer program of claim 15, wherein the first object is acoustically-weaker than the second object. 20. A computer program stored on a computer-readable medium, the computer program comprising instructions that cause a processor to: cause a waveform having a predetermined shape to be transmitted; receive a signal; analyze a share of the signal; and determine if the signal comprises an echo of the waveform based on analysis of the shape of the signal and the waveform having the predetermined shape; wherein, if the signal has substantially the predetermined shape, the signal is determined to be an echo of the waveform. 21. A computer program stored on a computer-readable medium, the computer program comprising instructions that cause a processor to: cause a waveform having a predetermined share to be transmitted; receive a signal; analyze a shape of the signal; and determine if the signal comprises an echo of the waveform based on analysis of the shape of the signal and the waveform having the predetermined shape; wherein, if the signal deviates beyond a certain tolerance from the predetermined shape, the signal is determined not to be an echo of the waveform. 