One or more of three different measures are taken to preheat a wafer before it is loaded into direct contact with a wafer holder, in order to provide optimal throughput while reducing the risk of thermal shock to the wafer. The first measure is to move the wafer holder to a raised position prior to inserting the wafer into the reaction chamber and holding the wafer above the wafer holder. The second measure is to provide an increased flow rate of a heat-conductive gas (such as H.sub.s purge gas) through the chamber prior to inserting the wafer therein. The third measure is to provide a power bias to radiative heat elements (e.g., heat lamps) above the reaction chamber.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of loading a wafer onto a wafer holder within a reaction chamber, the wafer holder initially having a higher temperature than the wafer, at least a portion of the wafer holder having a lowered position and a raised position, an upper surface of the at least a portion of the wafer holder having a surface area greater than 25% of the surface area of a lower surface of the wafer, the method comprising: providing a flow of heat-conductive gas within the reaction chamber; moving said portion of the wafer holder to its raised position; inserting the wafer into the reaction chamber; holding the wafer spaced above said portion of the wafer holder in its raised position while the heat-conductive gas flows within the reaction chamber, for a time period sufficient to permit the wafer temperature to increase to a level sufficient to substantially reduce the likelihood that the wafer will curl or pop if the wafer is lowered onto the at least a portion of the wafer holder; after said time period, lowering said portion to its lowered position and lowering the wafer onto said wafer holder; and processing the wafer on the wafer holder while in its lowered position. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein lowering the wafer onto said portion of the wafer holder is conducted before lowering said portion of the wafer holder to its lowered position. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein lowering said portion of the wafer holder to its lowered position is conducted before lowering the wafer onto the wafer holder. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing radiant heat to the reaction chamber from at least one lamp above the reaction chamber. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein a bank of lamps is provided above the reaction chamber, and providing radiant heat comprises providing fixed power to the bank of lamps above the reaction chamber. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein a bank of lamps is provided above the reaction chamber, the method further comprising: before said time period, switching a temperature control of the reaction chamber from closed loop temperature control to fixed power to one or more of the bank of lamps; and after said time period, switching the temperature control of the reaction chamber from fixed power to one or more of the bank of lamps to closed loop temperature control. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein holding the wafer spaced above said portion of the wafer holder comprises holding the wafer such that a gap of less than 1.300 mm is maintained between a top-most portion of the upper surface of said portion of the wafer holder and the lower surface of the wafer. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein holding the wafer spaced above said portion of the wafer holder comprises holding the wafer such that a gap of less than 1.143 mm is maintained between the upper surface of said portion of the wafer holder and the lower surface of the wafer. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein lowering the wafer onto the wafer holder comprises dropping the wafer onto said portion of the wafer holder. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein holding the wafer comprises holding the wafer with a robotic end-effector, and wherein lowering the wafer comprises releasing the wafer from the end-effector and permitting the wafer to drop. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said end-effector comprises a Bernoulli wand. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein inserting the wafer into the reaction chamber comprises: holding the wafer with a Bernoulli wand; and moving the wand into the reaction chamber so that the wafer is held above said portion of the wafer holder in its raised position. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein providing a flow of heat-conductive gas comprises providing a flow of gas at a first flow rate prior to lowering the wafer onto the wafer holder and at a second flow rate after lowering the wafer the wafer holder, the second flow rate being at least 50% less than the first flow rate. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein providing a flow of heat-conductive gas comprises providing a flow of gas at a flow rate of 40-60 slm. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the heat-conductive gas comprises hydrogen gas. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the wafer holder has a temperature of approximately 900.degree. C. during said step of inserting said wafer into said reaction chamber, said wafer being a 200 mm wafer, said time period being within the range of about 2.0-4.0 seconds. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the wafer holder has a temperature of approximately 900.degree. C. during said step of inserting said wafer into said reaction chamber, said wafer being a 300 mm wafer, said time period being within the range of about 5-9 seconds. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein walls of said reaction chamber, including the upper wall, are formed of quartz. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the wafer holder comprises a susceptor. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the wafer has an upper surface, and wherein during the step of holding the wafer spaced above said portion of the wafer holder, the amount of heat received by the lower surface of the wafer is within about 30% of the amount of heat received by the upper surface of the wafer. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein a recess is formed in an upper surface of the wafer holder, said recess sized and configured to closely receive said wafer. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein a plurality of grooves are formed in an upper surface of the wafer holder, the grooves configured to permit gas flow between the wafer and the wafer holder when the wafer is in contact with the wafer holder. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the wafer holder comprises a single piece. 24. A method of loading a wafer onto a wafer holder within a reaction chamber, the wafer holder initially having a higher temperature than the wafer, comprising: providing radiant heat to the reaction chamber from at least one lamp above the reaction chamber; providing a flow of heat-conductive gas within the reaction chamber, at a first flow rate; inserting a wafer into the reaction chamber; holding the wafer above the wafer holder while the radiant heat is being provided to the reaction chamber and while the heat-conductive gas flows within the reaction chamber between the wafer and the wafer holder, for a time period sufficient to substantially reduce the likelihood of wafer curl or pop if the wafer is loaded into direct contact with the wafer holder; lowering the wafer onto the wafer holder; and after the wafer is lowered onto the wafer holder, continuing but decreasing the flow of the heat-conductive gas to a second flow rate at least 50% less than the first flow rate. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said heat-conductive gas is hydrogen gas. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the decreasing the flow of the heat-conductive gas to the second flow rate is performed before CVD processing. 27. A method of loading a wafer onto a wafer holder within a reaction chamber, the wafer holder initially having a higher temperature than the wafer, comprising: providing power at a fixed rate to an array of lamps generally centered above the reaction chamber and above the wafer holder, while simultaneously providing power at a substantially lower rate to other lamps outside of the reaction chamber, said lamps transmitting radiant heat to the reaction chamber; providing a flow of heat-conductive gas within the reaction chamber; inserting a wafer into the reaction chamber; holding the wafer above the wafer holder during said steps of providing power and providing a flow of heat-conductive gas, for a time period sufficient to permit the wafer temperature to increase to a level sufficient to substantially reduce the likelihood of thermal shock to the wafer if the wafer is lowered onto the wafer holder; and lowering the wafer onto the wafer holder. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein at least a portion of the wafer holder has a lowered position and a raised position, an upper surface of the at least a portion of the wafer holder having a surface area greater than 25% of the surface area of a lower surface of the wafer, the method further comprising: prior to inserting the wafer into the reaction chamber, moving the at least a portion of the wafer holder to its raised position; maintaining the at least a portion of the wafer holder in its raised position during said time period; and after said time period, lowering the at least a portion of the wafer holder to its lowered position; wherein the wafer is within 1.300 mm of the at least a portion of the wafer holder while said at least a portion of the wafer holder is maintained in its raised position. 