A medical system that allows a medical device to be controlled by one of two input devices. The input devices may be consoles that contain handles and a screen. The medical devices may include robotic arms and instruments used to perform a medical procedure. The system may include an arbitrator that determines which console has priority to control one or more of the robotic arms/instruments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing a surgical procedure, comprising: robotically manipulating a medical instrument by articulating a robotic arm in response to movement of an input device, the medical instrument having an end effector movable in a surgical worksite; generating robotic data with the robotic arm during manipulation of the medical instrument; generating video data by capturing an image of the medical instrument and the surgical worksite with a camera; transmitting the robotic data from the robotic arm; transmitting the video data from the camera; multiplexing the robotic data and video data onto a communication link; and receiving the robotic data and video data from the communication link adjacent the input device. 2. A method for performing a surgical procedure as in claim 1, wherein the input device comprises a handle actuatable by a hand of an operator, and wherein robotically manipulating the medical instrument comprises moving the handle with the hand so as to articulate the robotic arm. 3. A method for performing a surgical procedure as in claim 1, further comprising one or more sensors coupled to the robotic arm, wherein generating robotic data comprises generating feedback from the one or more sensors. 4. A method for performing a surgical procedure as in claim 3, wherein generating feedback comprises sensing the position of the robotic arm. 5. A method for performing a surgical procedure as in claim 1, further comprising one or more sensors coupled to the end effector, wherein generating robotic data comprises generating feedback from the one or more sensors. 6. A method for performing a surgical procedure as in claim 5, wherein generating feedback comprises sensing the force applied by actuation of the end effector. 7. A method for performing a surgical procedure as in claim 1, wherein the camera is coupled to an endoscope. 8. A method for performing a surgical procedure as in claim 1, further comprising transmitting the multiplexed data across a network. 9. A method for performing a surgical procedure as in claim 8, further comprising displaying an image from the multiplexed data. 10. A method for performing a surgical procedure as in claim 8, wherein the data is transmitted in packets. 