A steerable endoscope has an elongated body with a selectively steerable distal portion and an automatically controlled proximal portion. The endoscope body is inserted into a patient and the selectively steerable distal portion is used to select a desired path within the patient's body. When the endoscope body is advanced, an electronic motion controller operates the automatically controlled proximal portion to assume the selected curve of the selectively steerable distal portion. Another desired path is selected with the selectively steerable distal portion and the endoscope body is advanced again. As the endoscope body is further advanced, the selected curves propagate proximally along the endoscope body, and when the endoscope body is withdrawn proximally, the selected curves propagate distally along the endoscope body. This creates a serpentine motion in the endoscope body that allows it to negotiate tortuous curves along a desired path through, around, and between organs within the body.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for determining an axial position of an elongate instrument insertable into a body cavity, the elongate instrument having a proximal portion and a selectively steerable distal portion, the apparatus comprising: a transducer adapted to slidingly receive the elongate instrument therethrough while measuring an axial position of the elongate body during advancement or withdrawal near the transducer, the transducer being attached to a fixed point of reference relative to the elongate instrument; and a motion controller in electrical communication with the transducer for receiving a signal from the transducer indicative of the axial position of the elongate instrument. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the transducer is configured as a ring which defines an opening through which the elongate instrument passes. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the transducer is adapted to produce a corresponding electrical signal indicative of the axial position as the elongate instrument passes through the transducer. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a first roller and a second roller attached to the transducer for contacting an exterior surface of the elongate body. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising a measurement apparatus in electrical communication with at least the first roller. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the measurement apparatus comprises a potentiometer. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a motor coupled to the first roller for urging the elongate instrument in an axial direction. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the transducer is attached adjacently to an elongated housing having a base and a linear track upon which the elongate body is advanced or withdrawn. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the transducer is attached adjacently to a selectively rotatable drum, the elongate body being positionable about a circumference of the drum. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a measurement apparatus connected to a pivot axis of the rotatable drum for converting a rotational movement of the drum into a longitudinal translation of the elongate body. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the measurement apparatus comprises a potentiometer. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the transducer measures an axial distance traveled by the elongate instrument by detecting the axial position through a method selected from the group consisting of optical, electronic, and mechanical methods. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fixed point of reference comprises a surgical table. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fixed point of reference comprises an insertion location on a body of a patient. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the transducer is positioned externally of the body cavity. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the elongate instrument defines at least one lumen therethrough. 