The invention relates to a rotational flash guard and method of use of a rotational flash guard. In general, the flash guard is attached to a support frame by an arm, a linkage mechanism pivotally interconnects the arm and the support frame, and an extensible power member connects the support frame to the linkage mechanism. Due to the unique configuration of the rotational flash guard it is adapted for movement about a work piece positioner to allow for use of a robotic tool while providing protection to the operator and other workers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A workstation comprising: a support frame; a flash guard; an arm supporting said flash guard and being pivotally mounted to said support frame for pivotal movement about an arm axis from a first position to a second position; linkage mechanism pivotally interconnecting said arm and said support frame; an extensible power member connected to said support frame and to said linkage mechanism, said power member being movable from a retracted position holding said arm in said first position to an extended position to move said arm to said second position. 2. A workstation according to claim 1 wherein said arm pivots more than 180 degrees between said first and said second positions. 3. A workstation according to claim 1 wherein said linkage mechanism includes first, second and third links pivotally connected to one another. 4. A workstation according to claim 3 wherein said first link is also pivotally connected to said arm, said second link is also pivotally connected to said support frame, and said third link is also pivotally connected to said extensible power member. 5. A workstation according to claim 1 further comprising a balancing mechanism connected to said support frame and to said second arm. 6. A workstation according to claim 1 further comprising a second arm supporting said flash guard and being pivotally connected to said support frame for movement between first and second positions. 7. A workstation according to claim 6 further comprising a second balancing mechanism connected to said support frame and to said arm. 8. A workstation according to claim 6 further comprising a robot mounted to said support frame; a work piece holder on said support frame for supporting a work piece adjacent said robot, said flash guard being on one side of said work piece holder when in said first position and being on said other side of said work piece holder when in said second position. 9. A workstation comprising: a support frame: an arm assembly comprising first and second spaced apart arms and a cross bar extending there between; a flash guard sheet member detachably connected to said cross bar; a first work piece holder on said support frame; a robot mounted on said support frame adjacent said first work piece holder; said arm assembly being mounted on said support frame for movement from a first position wherein said flash guard is on a first side of said work piece holder to a second position wherein said flash guard is on a second side of said work piece holder opposite from said first side. 10. A workstation according to claim 9 further comprising a second work piece holder spaced from said first work piece holder, a second arm assembly and a second flash guard sheet member attached to said second arm assembly; said second arm assembly being mounted to said support frame for movement between first and second positions respectively, said first work piece holder being between said first and second flash guard sheet members when said first and second arm assemblies are in their first positions, and said second work piece holder being between said first and second flash guard sheet members when said first and second arm assemblies are in their second positions. 11. A method for providing a flash guard comprising: attaching a first flash guard sheet member to a first arm assembly pivotally mounted to a support frame; pivoting said arm assembly from a first position wherein said flash guard sheet member is on a first side of a first work piece holder to a second position wherein said flash guard sheet member is on a second side of said first work piece holder opposite from said first side. 12. A method according to claim 11 further comprising attaching a second flash guard sheet member to a second arm assembly pivotally mounted to said support frame and pivoting said second arm assembly from a first position to a second position, said first and second flash guard sheet members being on opposite sides of said first work piece holder when in their respective first positions and being on opposite sides of a second work piece holder when in their respective second positions. 13. A method according to claim 11 wherein a robot is mounted to said support frame adjacent said first work piece holder, said method further comprising detaching said first flash guard sheet member from said first arm assembly so as to gain access to said robot for servicing said robot. 14. A method according to claim 13 further comprising performing a robotic function on a work piece mounted on said work piece holder. 