A method is provided for determining crystallization conditions for a protein, the method comprising: performing in a same fermentation apparatus 2 or more separate fermentations where each fermentation comprises cells expressing a protein to be purified and has a fermentation volume of less than 500 mL; purifying the expressed protein from the separate fermentations; and determining crystallization conditions for the purified protein by submicroliter crystallization experiments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for processing a plurality of samples comprising: a first station for performing a plurality of fermentations, each fermentation being performed in a different sample vessel; a second station comprising a centrifuge for performing a further processing step on the plurality of fermented samples where the sample is retained in the same sample vessel as the fermentation during the further processing step; and, means for crystallizing proteins expressed in the samples. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the means is capable of crystallizing hundreds of thousands of proteins per day. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises means for performing x-ray crystallography. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for analyzing on an imaging station as many as 1 million images from as many as 140,000 crystallization experiments set up each day. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for identifying crystals with crystal detecting algorithms. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for automatically positioning and centering about 30 to about 50 protein crystals per hour with a robot. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the crystals are frozen and analyzed by X-ray diffraction. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the beamline produces diffraction data that is subject to phasing and refinement calculations and is converted to a three dimensional representation of the protein. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the three dimensional representation of the protein undergoes virtual ligand screening wherein a computerized simulation of the interaction between proteins and potential drugs identifies drug leads for synthesis and/or in vitro and/or in vivo testing. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the first and/or second station is automated. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein two or more sample vessels are coupled to a gas distribution arrangement. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein one or more components of the system are coupled to a controller that functions to instruct operation of the components. 13. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one robotic gripper apparatus that is structured to move sample vessels between at least the first and second stations. 14. The system of claim 1, further comprising a sonication device that is insertable into sample vessels. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein two or more sample vessels are held in a carrier. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the carrier is portable. 