An apparatus optimizes arm velocity when the arm is carrying a given payload. More specifically, the apparatus controls the performance of a motor so that the motor can move the arm at an arm maximum velocity when the arm is carrying the given payload. To that end, the apparatus includes an information input to receive motor performance information, and a controller operatively coupled with the information input. The controller is capable of determining the arm maximum velocity from the motor performance information. The controller also is capable of causing the motor to move the arm at the arm maximum velocity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for controlling a motor, the motor capable of moving an arm at an arm maximum velocity when the arm is carrying a given payload, the apparatus comprising: an information input to receive motor performance information when the arm is carrying the given payload; and a controller operatively coupled with the information input, the controller capable of determining the arm maximum velocity from the motor performance information, the controller also being capable of causing the motor to move the arm at the arm maximum velocity; and an interface to forward messages to a trajectory generator that calculates trajectory information for the arm, wherein the trajectory generator attempts to increase motor velocity when the motor is not running at a predetermined velocity, and wherein the messages include a clamp message causing the trajectory generator to stop attempting to increase the motor velocity when the motor is not running at the predetermined velocity. 2. The apparatus as defined by claim 1 further including an increment module operatively coupled with the controller, the increment module being capable of increasing the motor velocity toward the arm maximum velocity in discrete amounts. 3. The apparatus as defined by claim 1 wherein the controller is capable of causing the motor to move the arm a predetermined amount less than the arm maximum velocity, the predetermined amount being a function of the arm maximum velocity. 4. The apparatus as defined by claim 1 wherein the messages further include a message including data that causes the trajectory generator to recalculate trajectory data based upon the maximum velocity. 5. The apparatus as defined by claim 1 further including a following error module capable of calculating following error of the motor, the following error of the motor being calculated as a function of the motor performance information, the arm maximum velocity being a function of the following error. 6. The apparatus as defined by claim 1 wherein the arm is a robotic arm. 7. A method of controlling a motor capable of moving an arm, the arm being capable of moving at an arm maximum velocity when carrying a given payload, the method comprising: receiving motor performance information when the arm is carrying the given payload; dynamically determining the arm maximum velocity based on the motor performance information; and causing the motor to move the arm at a velocity that is a function of the arm maximum velocity; and forwarding a clamp message to a trajectory generator that attempts to increase motor velocity when the motor is not running at a predetermined velocity, the clamp message causing the trajectory generator to stop attempting to increase the motor velocity when the motor is not running at the predetermined velocity. 8. The method as defined by claim 7 wherein dynamically determining includes: calculating the following error of the motor; and determining if the following error equals or exceeds a maximum value. 9. The method as defined by claim 7 wherein dynamically determining includes repeatedly determining the arm maximum velocity as the arm moves during a single cycle. 10. The method as defined by claim 7 further including forwarding a trajectory message to a trajectory generator that calculates arm trajectory data, the trajectory message including data that causes the trajectory generator to recalculate trajectory data based upon the arm maximum velocity. 11. The method as defined by claim 7 further including increasing the motor velocity toward the arm maximum velocity in discrete amounts. 12. The method as defined by claim 7 wherein the arm is a robotic arm. 13. The method as defined by claim 7 wherein the motor moves the arm at a velocity that is a predetermined amount less than the arm maximum velocity. 14. A computer program product for use on a computer system for controlling a motor capable of moving an arm, the arm being capable of moving at an arm maximum velocity when carrying a given payload, the computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having computer readable program code thereon, the computer readable program code comprising: program code for receiving motor performance information when the arm is carrying the given payload; program code for dynamically determining the arm maximum velocity based on the motor performance information; and program code for causing the motor to move the arm at a velocity that is a function of the arm maximum velocity; and program code for forwarding a clamp message to a trajectory generator that attempts to increase motor velocity when the motor is not running at a predetermined velocity, the clamp message causing the trajectory generator to stop attempting to increase the motor velocity when the motor is not running at the predetermined velocity. 15. The computer program product as defined by claim 14 wherein the program code for dynamically determining includes: program code for calculating the following error of the motor; and program code for determining if the following error equals or exceeds a maximum value. 16. The computer program product as defined by claim 14 wherein the program code for dynamically determining includes program code for repeatedly determining the arm maximum velocity as the arm moves during a single cycle. 17. The computer program product as defined by claim 14 further including program code for forwarding a trajectory message to a trajectory generator that calculates arm trajectory data, the trajectory message including data that causes the trajectory generator to recalculate trajectory data based upon the arm maximum velocity. 18. The computer program product as defined by claim 14 further including program code for increasing the motor velocity toward the arm maximum velocity in discrete amounts. 19. The computer program product as defined by claim 14 wherein the arm is a robotic arm. 20. The computer program product as defined by claim 14 further including program code for causing the motor to move the arm at a velocity that is a predetermined amount less than the arm maximum velocity. 