Substrates such as silicon wafers, flat panel displays, and hard disk drive head substrates are electrostatically gripped using power derived from a physically separated source. Noncontacting coupling permits operation in vacuum as a result of its efficient energy conversion. Bidirectional communications between a controller and the remote gripper electronics along its power coupling lines is enabled. Inclusion of a communications link allows monitoring of system status and full control over the substrate sensing, grip, and release processes. The system of the present invention provides freedom from rf bias filtering considerations, and enables installation of grippers on robot arms without stretching, bending, or sliding electrical connections.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electronic system used for the purpose of holding substrates comprising: (a) an electrostatic gripper surface; (b) a first electronic unit mounted in proximity to the electrostatic gripper which generates at least one high voltage output connected to an electrostatic gripper electrode; (c) a coupling device containing transponder elements enabling power to be supplied to the first electronic unit and permitting data signal exchange with the first electronic unit, the first electronic unit being in connection with the coupling device by only two wires; and (d) a second electronic unit mounted in proximity to control and power connections of the processing apparatus, which provides power through said coupling device to the first electronic unit and performs data exchange through the coupling device with the first electronic unit. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the first electronic unit provides one high voltage output. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the first electronic unit provides two high voltage outputs. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the coupling device may cease operation, disconnecting the first and second electronic units, and where the first electronic unit contains energy storage means permitting gripper operation while the connection is broken. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the coupling device transponder elements include at least one plug and at least one socket forming a direct connection that may be broken during gripper operation. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the coupling device contains at least one pair of functioning transponder elements in noncontacting electromagnetic connection. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the coupling device contains an optical data link. 8. The system of claim 6 wherein the coupling device contains an optical power link. 9. The system of claim 6 wherein the coupling device contains a magnetic data link. 10. The system of claim 6 wherein the coupling device contains a magnetic power link. 11. The system of claim 6 wherein the coupling device contains at least one transformer with two windings so disposed as to provide a gap between the windings. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the coupling device consists of one transformer. 13. The system of claim 11 wherein the coupling device consists of two transformers. 14. The system of claim 11 wherein the coupling device consists of three transformers. 15. The system of claim 11 wherein the coupling device consists of four transformers. 16. The system of claim 11 wherein the power signal coupled is in the range 20 kHz to 2 MHz. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the power signal coupled is in the range 200 kHz to 600 kHz. 18. The system of claim 11 wherein data transfer between the first and second electronic units is performed by modulation of signals impressed upon the transformer windings. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein said data transfer is performed by modulation of signals in the range of 1 MHz to 20 MHz in at least one data transfer direction. 20. The system of claim 18 wherein said data transfer from the second to first electronic unit is performed by modulation of the power transfer waveform. 21. The system of claim 11 wherein the power drive from the second unit to the coupling device contains an adaptive feedback circuit which permits resonance of the power drive signal with the coupling device inductance and the other circuit capacitances. 22. The system of claim 21 wherein the power drive adaptive feedback circuit contains a power output limiting device. 23. The system of claim 22 wherein the power output limiting device permits amplitude modulation of the power signal for the purposes of data transfer to the first electronic unit. 24. The system of claim 1 wherein the first electronic unit employs a voltage switching half bridge optocoupler pair to obtain a reversible polarity high voltage output with high power efficiency. 25. The system of claim 24 wherein the optocouplers employ semi-insulating GaAs material as a photoconductor. 26. The system of claim 24 wherein the first electronic unit employs a capacitor-diode voltage multiplier system to obtain high efficiency high voltage output from relatively low-voltage input pulses. 27. The system of claim 1 wherein substrate position sensing is performed using an oscillator connected such that variations in chuck capacitance cause oscillator frequency shifts which are detected using at least one of period and frequency measurement techniques. 28. The system of claim 27 wherein the oscillator is connected to one electrostatic gripper electrode. 29. The system of claim 27 wherein the oscillator is connected between two electrostatic gripper electrodes. 30. The system of claim 29 wherein the oscillator frequency is in the range of 400 kHz to 15 MHz. 31. The system of claim 30 wherein the oscillator frequency is in the range of 2 MHz to 10 MHz. 32. An electronic system used for the purpose of holding substrates comprising: (a) an electrostatic gripper surface (b) a first electronic unit mounted in proximity to the electrostatic gripper which generates at least one high voltage output connected to an electrostatic gripper electrode; (c) a coupling device containing transponder elements enabling power to be supplied to the first electronic unit and permitting data signal exchange with the first electronic unit, the coupling device contains at least one pair of functioning transponder elements in noncontacting electromagnetic connection, the pair of transponder elements transmitting both power and data therebetween; and (d) a second electronic unit mounted in proximity to control and power connections of the processing apparatus, which provides power through said coupling device to the first electronic unit and performs data exchange through the coupling device with the first electronic unit. 