An apparatus and method which is particularly suitable for maintaining a wafer at an optimum temperature for the alignment and exposure step during photolithography. The apparatus includes a cooling plate having at least one cooling channel. A coolant is continually circulated through the cooling channel to cool the cooling plate and the wafer resting thereon prior to transfer of the wafer to a wafer stage in a stepper, for example. The cooling plate may be mounted on an OF table inside the stepper and include a central opening for receiving the wafer-engaging shaft of the OF table. The cooling plate maintains all regions of the wafer at substantially the same temperature as the wafer stage in the stepper prior to transfer of the wafer to the wafer stage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for controlling temperature of a wafer, comprising: a cooling plate having a body for receiving a wafer; at least one cooling channel provided in said body for circulating a coolant through said body; and a coolant pump and supply tank provided in fluid communication with said at least one cooling channel for containing the coolant and circulating the coolant through said at least one cooling channel, said body having a central opening extending therethrough and wherein said at least one cooling channel at least partially encircles said central opening; and wherein said at least one cooling channel comprises an inlet and an outlet adjacent to each other in an edge of said body. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a coolant intake conduit disposed in fluid communication with said inlet and a coolant outlet conduit disposed in fluid communication with said outlet. 3. A method of controlling temperature of a wafer, comprising the steps of: providing a cooling plate having a body and at least one cooling channel provided in said body, said body having a central opening extending through said body and wherein said at least one cooling channel at least encircles said central opening; wherein said at least one cooling channel comprises an inlet and an outlet adjacent to each other in an edge of said body; circulating a coolant having a selected temperature through said at least one cooling channel, substantially uni-directionally around said central opening; and imparting said selected temperature to the wafer by supporting the wafer on said body. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said selected temperature is about 22.5.degree. C. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein said supporting the wafer on said body comprises the step of supporting the wafer on said body for at least about 30 seconds. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said selected temperature is about 22.5.degree. C. 7. The method of claim 3 further comprising a coolant intake conduit disposed in fluid communication with said inlet and a coolant outlet conduit disposed in fluid communication with said outlet. 8. The method of claim 3 wherein said inlet and said outlet are disposed in adjacent, spaced-apart relationship to each other. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising a coolant intake conduit disposed in fluid communication with said inlet and a coolant outlet conduit disposed in fluid communication with said outlet. 10. The method of claim 3 further comprising a coolant pump and supply tank provided in fluid communication with said at least one cooling channel for containing the coolant and circulating the coolant through said at least one cooling channel. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said selected temperature is about 22.5.degree. C. 12. The method of claim 10 where in said supporting the wafer on said body comprises the step of supporting the wafer on said body for at least about 30 seconds. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said selected temperature is about 22.5.degree. C. 14. A method of controlling temperature of a wafer in a pre-alignment chamber of a stepper, comprising the steps of: providing a cooling plate in the pre-alignment chamber, said cooling plate having a body and at least one cooling channel provided in said body, said body having a central opening extending therethrough and wherein said at least one cooling channel encircles said central opening; wherein said at least one cooling channel comprises an inlet and an outlet adjacent to each other in an edge of said body; circulating a coolant having a selected temperature through said at least one cooling channel, substantially uni-directionally around said central opening; and imparting said selected temperature to the wafer by supporting the wafer on said body. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said selected temperature is about 22.5.degree. C. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein said supporting the wafer on said body comprises the step of supporting the wafer on said body for at least about 30 seconds. 