The present invention includes a microplate for performing crystallography studies and methods for making and using such microplates. In particular, the microplate has a frame which includes a plurality of wells formed therein. Each well includes a first well and a second well. The first well includes a relatively small reservoir having a substantially concaved form capable of receiving a protein solution and a reagent solution. The second well includes a relatively large reservoir capable of receiving a reagent solution that has a higher concentration than the reagent solution within the first well, wherein the protein solution and the reagent solution within the first well interact with the reagent solution within the second well via a vapor diffusion process which enables the formation of protein crystals within the first well. The microplate may be sized so that it can be handled by a robotic handling system and/or a liquid handling system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microplate, comprising: a frame including a plurality of wells formed therein, each well including: a first well having a relatively small reservoir with a substantially concaved bottom; and a second well having a relatively large reservoir, wherein said first well is not entirely located within said second well nor is said first well entirely located outside of said second well but instead said first well and said second well share a wall that physically separates the small reservoir from the large reservoir in a manner that the small reservoir still has a portion of itself not counting the wall or space above the wall that overlaps a portion of said second well. 2. The microplate of claim 1, wherein said frame has a footprint sized to be handled by a robotic handling system. 3. The microplate of claim 1, wherein each well is positioned on said frame such that a liquid handling system can automatically deposit a sample solution into the small reservoir of said first well and can automatically deposit a reagent solution into a large reservoir of said second well. 4. The microplate of claim 1, further comprising a seal that is positioned over said plurality of wells. 5. The microplate of claim 1, wherein said microplate is manufactured from cyclo-olefin. 6. The microplate of claim 1, wherein said frame and said plurality of wells form a multi well high-throughput protein crystallography plate. 7. A protein crystallography plate, comprising: a frame made from cyclo-olefin that includes a plurality of wells formed therein, each well is also made from cyclo-olefin and includes: a first well including a relatively small reservoir having a substantially concaved bottom for receiving a protein solution and a reagent solution; and a second well including a relatively large reservoir for receiving a reagent solution that has a higher concentration than the reagent solution within said first well, wherein the protein solution and the reagent solution within said first well interact with the reagent solution within said second well via a vapor diffusion process which enables the formation of protein crystals within said first well, wherein said first well is not entirely located within said second well nor is said first well entirely located outside of said second well but instead said first well and said second well share a wall that physically separates the small reservoir from the large reservoir in a manner that the small reservoir still has a portion of itself not counting the wall or space above the wall that overlaps a portion of said second well. 8. The protein crystallography plate of claim 7, wherein said frame has a footprint sized to be handled by a robotic handling system. 9. The protein crystallography plate of claim 7, wherein each well is positioned on said frame such that a liquid handling system can automatically deposit the protein solution and the reagent solution into the small reservoir or said first well and can automatically deposit the reagent solution into the large reservoir or said second well. 