The present invention provides compounds, methods and systems for sequencing nucleic acid using single molecule detection. Using labeled NPs that exhibit charge-switching behavior, single-molecule DNA sequencing in a microchannel sorting system is realized. In operation, sequencing products are detected enabling real-time sequencing as successive detectable moieties flow through a detection channel. By electrically sorting charged molecules, the cleaved product molecules are detected in isolation without interference from unincorporated NPs and without illuminating the polymerase-DNA complex.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A charge-switch nucleotide phosphate (NP) probe, said NP probe comprising: an intact NP probe having a terminal phosphate with a fluorophore moiety attached thereto via a linker carrying at least one positive charge, wherein said terminal phosphate is a pyrophosphate with a fluorophore moiety attached thereto, said intact NP probe having a first molecular charge associated therewith, whereupon cleavage of said terminal phosphate as a phosphate fluorophore moiety, said phosphate fluorophore moiety carries a second molecular charge, wherein the difference between said first molecular charge and said second molecular charge is at least 0.5. 2. A charge-switch nucleotide phosphate (NP) probe, said NP probe comprising: an intact NP probe having a terminal phosphate with a fluorophore moiety attached thereto via a linker carrying at least two positive charges, wherein said terminal phosphate is a pyrophosphate with a fluorophore moiety attached thereto, said intact NP probe having a first molecular charge associated therewith, whereupon cleavage of said terminal phosphate as a phosphate fluorophore moiety, said phosphate fluorophore moiety carries a second molecular charge, wherein the difference between said first molecular charge and said second molecular charge is at least 0.5. 3. A charge-switch nucleotide phosphate (NP) probe, said NP probe comprising: an intact NP probe having a terminal phosphate with a fluorophore moiety attached thereto, said intact NP probe having a first molecular charge associated therewith, whereupon cleavage of said terminal phosphate as a phosphate fluorophore moiety, said phosphate fluorophore moiety carries a second molecular charge, wherein the difference between said first molecular charge and said second molecular charge is at least 0.5, wherein said charge-switch probe is selected from the group consisting of compound 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59 and 60 in FIGS. 6A-D. 4. An intact charge-switch nucleotide phosphate (NP) probe, wherein upon enzymatic cleavage of said intact charge-switch NP probe to produce a phosphate detectable moiety, said phosphate detectable moiety migrates to an electrode, and said intact charge-switch NP probe migrates to the other electrode, wherein said charge-switch NP probe is a nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) and said phosphate detectable moiety is a pyrophosphate with a fluorophore moiety attached thereto. 5. The intact charge-switch NP probe according to claim 4, wherein upon cleavage of said phosphate detectable moiety as a pyrophosphate fluorophore moiety, said pyrophosphate fluorophore moiety carries a positive charge relative to said intact NTP probe. 6. The intact charge-switch NP probe according to claim 4, wherein upon cleavage of said phosphate detectable moiety as a pyrophosphate fluorophore moiety, said pyrophosphate fluorophore moiety carries a negative charge relative to said intact NTP probe. 7. The intact charge-switch NP probe according to claim 4, wherein said fluorophore moiety is attached to said terminal phosphate via a linker. 8. The intact charge-switch NP probe according to claim 7, wherein said fluorophore linker is an alkylene group having between about 5 to about 12 carbons. 9. The intact charge-switch NP probe according to claim 7, wherein said linker carries at least one positive charge. 10. The intact charge-switch NP probe according to claim 7 wherein said linker carries at least two positive charges. 11. An intact charge-switch nucleotide phosphate (NP) probe, wherein upon enzymatic cleavage of said intact charge-switch NP probe to produce a phosphate detectable moiety, said phosphate detectable moiety migrates to an electrode, and said intact charge-switch NP probe migrates to the other electrode, and wherein said charge-switch NP probe is a member selected from the group consisting of a deoxynucleotide triphosphate (dNTP), and a nucleotide triphosphate (NTP). 12. The intact charge-switch NP probe according to claim 11, wherein said charge-switch NP probe is a deoxynucleotide triphosphate (dNTP). 13. The intact charge-switch NP probe according to claim 12, wherein said deoxynucleotide triphosphate (dNTP) is a member selected from the group consisting of deoxyadenosine triphosphate, deoxycytosine triphosphate, deoxyguanosine triphosphate, deoxythymidine triphosphate and deoxyuridine triphosphate. 14. The intact charge-switch NP probe according to claim 11, wherein said nucleotide triphosphate (NTP) is a member selected from the group consisting of adenosine triphosphate, cytosine triphosphate, guanosine triphosphate and uridine triphosphate. 15. An intact charge-switch nucleotide phosphate (NP) probe, wherein upon enzymatic cleavage of said intact charge-switch NP probe to produce a phosphate detectable moiety, said phosphate detectable moiety migrates to an electrode, and said intact charge-switch NP probe migrates to the other electrode, wherein at least one of the phosphate moieties of said nucleotide phosphate probe has an ionized oxygen atom with a counter-cation associated therewith. 16. The intact charge-switch NP probe according to claim 15, wherein said counter-cation is a metal ion. 17. The intact charge-switch NP probe according to claim 16, wherein said metal ion is selected from the group consisting of Mg.sup.++, Mn.sup.++, K.sup.+ and Na.sup.+. 