An apparatus and a method for the cleaning of magnetic tape cartridge drive, particularly such as removable data-storage media tapes, and especially an arrangement and method of providing a disposable cartridge retention spring cleaning tool.
Claims What we claim is: 1. An arrangement for the removal of accumulated debris from a removable data-storage media cartridge drive retention spring; said arrangement comprising: a cleaner fixture having a cleaner arm connected thereto, said cleaner fixture being manually positionable to cause said cleaner arm to contact said retention spring so as to scrape debris from contacting surface portions of said retention spring; and debris collecting structure being fastened to said cleaner fixture below said cleaner arm and retention spring for collecting and discarding debris scraped from said retention spring by said cleaner arm. 2. An arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein said debris collecting structure comprises a disposable block which is detachably fastened to said cleaner fixture, said block comprising an adhesive surface facing toward said cleaner arm and retention spring for adherent receipt of scraped debris. 3. An arrangement as claimed in claim 2, wherein said adhesive surface on said block comprises a layer of a material selected from the group of materials consisting of acrylate or a rubber-based pressure-sensitive adhesive. 4. An arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein said cleaner arm comprises a disposable metallic scraper blade which is detachably fastened to said cleaner fixture. 5. An arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein said cleaner fixture comprises an external configuration which is substantially commensurate with the external dimensions of an LTO cartridge for an automated data-storage library. 6. An arrangement for the removal of accumulated debris from a removable data-storage media cartridge drive retention spring, wherein said arrangement comprises an automated cleaner fixture insertable into tape drives of an automated data-storage library; comprising: a rotatable wheel of said cleaner fixture for contacting surface portions of said retention spring for abrading or scraping accumulated debris from said retention spring surface portions; and drive means operatively connected to said rotatable wheel for imparting rotation to said wheel for scraping said debris from therewith contacting surface portions of said retention spring. 7. An arrangement as claimed in claim 6, wherein said rotatable wheel is disposable and possesses a sticky circumferential surface contacting said retention spring surface portions, said sticky surface being a layer selected from the group of materials consisting of rubber, rubber incorporating an abrasive substance, and rubber having a double-sided pressure-sensitive adhesive applied thereto. 8. An arrangement as claimed in claim 6, wherein said drive means comprises a battery-powered motor; and a drive belt connecting said rotatable wheel to an output drive of said motor for imparting rotation to said wheel in response to operation of said motor. 9. An arrangement as claimed in claim 8, wherein said wheel is connected to a pulley, said output drive of the motor comprising a gear arrangement connected to a further pulley, said drive belt operatively extending between said pulleys. 10. An arrangement as claimed in claim 9, wherein a gear rack structure operatively connected to said motor conveys said cleaner fixture having an LTO cartridge profile along a carrier into contact with an LTO drive so as to enable said rotatable wheel to contact said surface portions of the retention spring. 11. An arrangement as claimed in claim 10, wherein said cleaner fixture is periodically operated in conformance with a preventive maintenance algorithm based on an initial occurrence of a debris-ascertaining cartridge loading and unloading count into an LTO library. 12. A method for the removal of accumulated debris from a removable data-storage media cartridge drive retention spring; said method comprising: providing a cleaner fixture having a cleaner arm connected thereto, said cleaner fixture being manually positioned to cause said cleaner arm to contact said retention spring so as to scrape debris from contacting surface portions of said retention spring; and fastening debris collecting structure to said cleaner fixture below said cleaner arm and retention spring for collecting and discarding debris scraped from said retention spring by said cleaner arm. 13. A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein said debris collecting structure comprises a disposable block which is detachably fastened to said cleaner fixture, said block comprising an adhesive surface facing toward said cleaner arm and retention spring for adherent receipt of scraped debris. 14. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein said adhesive surface on said block comprises a layer of a material selected from the group of materials consisting of acrylate or a rubber-based pressure-sensitive adhesive. 15. A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein said cleaner arm comprises a disposable metallic scraper blade which is detachably fastened to said cleaner fixture. 16. A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein said cleaner fixture comprises an external configuration which is substantially commensurate with the external dimensions of an LTO cartridge for an automated data-storage library. 17. A method for the removal of accumulated debris from a removable data-storage media cartridge drive retention spring, wherein said arrangement comprises an automated cleaner fixture insertable into tape drives of an automated data-storage library; said method comprising: providing a rotatable wheel of said cleaner fixture for contacting surface portions of said retention spring for abrading or scraping accumulated debris from said retention spring surface portions; and operatively connecting drive means to said rotatable wheel for imparting rotation to said wheel for scraping said debris from therewith contacting surface portions of said retention spring. 18. A method as claimed in claim 17, wherein said rotatable wheel is disposable and possesses a sticky circumferential surface contacting said retention spring surface portions, said sticky surface being a layer selected from the group of materials consisting of rubber, rubber incorporating an abrasive substance, and rubber having a double-sided pressure-sensitive adhesive applied thereto. 19. A method as claimed in claim 17, wherein said drive means comprises a battery-powered motor; and a drive belt connecting said rotatable wheel to an output drive of said motor for imparting rotation to said wheel in response to operation of said motor. 20. A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein said wheel is connected to a pulley, said output drive of the motor comprising a gear arrangement connected to a further pulley, said drive belt operatively extending between said pulleys. 21. A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein a gear rack structure operatively connected to said motor conveys said cleaner fixture having an LTO cartridge profile along a carrier into contact with an LTO drive so as to enable said rotatable wheel to contact said surface portions of the retention spring. 22. A method as claimed in claim 21, wherein said cleaner fixture is periodically operated in conformance with a preventive maintenance algorithm based on an initial occurrence of a debris-ascertaining cartridge loading and unloading count into the data-storage library. 