A robot apparatus is provided which includes body portions such as a head block (4), leg blocks (3A to 3D), an actuator (25) to actuate the body portions and a CPU (10) to supply a control signal to the actuator (25). In this apparatus, information about an external force applied to the apparatus, such as the position, magnitude, direction, etc. of the external force, is computed on the basis of changes of the control signal supplied from the CPU (10) to drive the actuator (25) and a signal supplied as a response to the CPU (10) when the actuator (25) is driven. The external force information is supplied to the CPU (10) and used as information for selection of a behavior and emotion of the robot apparatus and the next behavior of the apparatus. Thus, in the robot apparatus, since the external force information is computed on the basis of an output from the CPU (10) and outputs from the actuator (25) and a potentiometer (26), so an external force can be detected by the use of existing devices and no dedicated sensors have to be additionally provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomously behaving robot apparatus comprising: a body; a plurality of actuators connected to the body and each having a joint drive; means for controlling the actuator based on a predetermined control signal; a storage means having stored a relation between the control signal and a measured value of a torque on the joint drive; a storage means having stored a relation between a force applied to the actuator and a computed value of a torque on each joint drive based on the force application; and an external force detecting means for computing the measured torque value on the basis of a change of the control signal and detecting a direction and magnitude of the force applied to the actuator from the relation between the computed measured torque value and computed torque value. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein the control signal is a PWM (pulse width modulation) pulse. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of leg blocks to be driven in a predetermined pattern; and means for computing a distance from each side of a polygon defined by connecting landing points of landing ones of the plurality of leg blocks to a projected point, on a walking surface, of the center of gravity of the robot apparatus; the external force detecting means determining whether or not an external force is applied to the robot apparatus, on the basis of the specified and actual amounts of motion, and the distance computing means-computed distance from each side of the polygon to the projected point. 4. A method of controlling the operation of an autonomously behaving robot apparatus, comprising steps of: controlling a plurality of actuators connected to the body unit and each having a joint drive with the use of a predetermined control signal; and computing, on the basis of a change of the control signal, the measured torque value with the use of a storage means having stored therein a relation between the control signal and a measured value of a torque developed at the joint drive and a storage means having stored therein a relation between a force applied to the actuator and a computed value of a torque developed at each joint drive due to the force application and detecting a direction and magnitude of the force applied to the actuator from the relation between the computed measured torque value and computed torque value. 5. The method as set forth in claim 4, wherein the control signal is a PWM (pulse width modulation) pulse. 6. The method as set forth in claim 4, wherein the robot apparatus has a plurality of leg blocks to be driven in a predetermined pattern, and further comprising steps of: computing a distance from each side of a polygon defined by connecting landing points of landing ones of the plurality of leg blocks to a projected point, on a walking surface, of the center of gravity of the robot apparatus; and determining whether or not an external force is applied to the robot apparatus, on the basis of the specified and actual amounts of motion, and the distance computing means-computed distance from each side of the polygon to the projected point. 