A position determination system for movable objects or personnel comprising at least one portable position sensor built into a wearable item of a member of personnel having an identification number, or embedded into a movable object having an identification number, and a high accuracy position determination device. The high accuracy position determination device is configured to provide a set of high accuracy initialization data including a set of high accuracy absolute positional data indicative of location of the initialization device, a set of high accuracy velocity/acceleration data indicative of velocity/acceleration of the initialization device, and a set of high accuracy orientation data indicative of orientation of the high accuracy position determination device. The portable position sensor is configured to utilize the high accuracy initialization data to generate and broadcast the positional data of at least one member of personnel having an identification number, or of at least one movable object having an identification number.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A position determination system for personnel members or movable objects comprising: at least one portable position sensor, each said portable position sensor further comprising: an inertial navigation system (INS) module capable of determining its absolute acceleration data adjusted for a local gravitational factor; a portable wireless communication module; and a power source adapted to provide power to said portable position sensor; a high accuracy position determination device capable of determining its position and velocity with high accuracy; and a link between each said portable position sensor and said high accuracy position determination device; wherein said high accuracy position and velocity data provided by said high accuracy position determination device and said acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor provided by at least one said portable position sensor is linked by incorporating said set of high accuracy velocity data provided by said high accuracy position determination gravitational factor provided by at least one said INS module in order to generate a set of absolute velocity data indicative of an absolute velocity of said at least one INS module; and by integrating said set of high accuracy positional data provided by said high accuracy position determination device into said set of absolute velocity data in order to generate a set of INS data including a set of high accuracy absolute positional data indicative of location of said at least one INS module. 2. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein at least one said portable position sensor is built into a wearable item of a member of said personnel having an identification number ID_Number. 3. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein at least one said portable position sensor is embedded into a movable object having an ID_Object_Number. 4. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further includes: a portable data processor; and a substantially continuous one-way communication link; wherein said portable position sensor is configured to substantially continuously receive said high accuracy position and velocity data from said high accuracy position determination device by using said one-way communication link; and wherein said portable data processor is configured to derive a set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module based on said high accuracy position and velocity data provided by said high accuracy position determination device and based on said acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor provided by said INS module. 5. The position determination system of claim 4, wherein said portable data processor derives said set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module by incorporating said set of high accuracy velocity data provided by said high accuracy position determination device into said set of measured absolute acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor provided by said INS module in order to generate a set of absolute velocity data indicative of an absolute velocity of said INS module; and by integrating said set of high accuracy positional data provided by said high accuracy position determination device into said set of absolute velocity data in order to generate a set of INS data including a set of absolute positional data indicative of location of said INS module. 6. The position determination system of claim 5, wherein said portable data processor generates a set of INS positional error data that indicates the degree of accuracy of said set of absolute INS positional data. 7. The position determination system of claim 6, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further includes: a memory block; said memory block is configured to record said set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module over a first time period. 8. The position determination system of claim 7, wherein said memory block is further configured to record said set of INS positional error data that indicates the degree of accuracy of said set of absolute INS positional data over a second time period. 9. The position determination system of claim 6, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further includes: a display device configured to display a set of INS positional error data that indicates the degree of accuracy of said set of absolute INS positional data. 10. The position determination system of claim 5, wherein said portable data processor generates a set of INS absolute velocity/acceleration vector error data that indicates the degree of accuracy of said absolute velocity/acceleration vector of said INS module. 11. The position determination system of claim 5, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further includes: a display device configured to display said set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module over a time period. 12. The position determination system of claim 4, wherein said one-way communication link further comprises: a network of short range transceivers configured to support substantially continuous communication between said high accuracy position determination device and at least one said portable position sensor. 13. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further includes: a portable data processor; and a substantially continuous two-way communication link; wherein said portable position sensor is configured to substantially continuously receive said high accuracy position and velocity data provided by said high accuracy position determination device by using said two-way communication link; wherein said portable data processor is configured to derive a set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module based on said high accuracy position and velocity data provided by said high accuracy position determination device and based on said acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor provided by said INS module; and wherein said portable wireless communication module is configured to substantially continuously broadcast said set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module by using said two-way communication link. 14. The position determination system of claim 13, wherein said portable wireless communication module is further configured to substantially continuously broadcast said set of INS positional error data corresponding to said INS module by using said two-way communication link. 15. The position determination system of claim 13, wherein said two-way communication link further comprises: a communication system selected from the group consisting of: {a Bluetooth communication system, an Ultra Wide Band (UWB) communication system, an (802.11a) communication system, an (802.11b) communication system, an (802.11g) communication system, a LAN network, a WAN network, and a Wi-Fi network}. 16. The position determination system of claim 1 further including: a one-way communication link; and a tracking station further including: a data processor configured by using said one-way communication link to substantially continuously receive said high accuracy position and velocity data provided by said high accuracy position determination device and said acceleration data adjusted for a local gravitational factor provided by each said portable position sensor; and wherein said data processor is configured to derive an INS positional data including an INS positional error data corresponding to each said INS module. 17. The position determination system of claim 16, wherein said tracking station further includes: a display configured to display and to track each said INS module based on said INS positional data including said INS positional error data corresponding to one said INS module. 18. The position determination system of claim 17, wherein said tracking station is configured to substantially continuously communicate with each said INS module using said two-way communication link. 19. The position determination system of claim 18, wherein said tracking station further includes: an alarm device configured to communicate to each said INS module using said two-way communication link that its positional error data exceeds a predetermined threshold. 20. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein said high accuracy position determination device further comprises: a Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) further including: an integrated Satellite Positioning System (SATPS)/transceiver unit; and a display devices. 21. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein said high accuracy position determination device further comprises: a Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) further including: an integrated Global Positioning System (GPS)/transceiver unit; and a display device. 22. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein said high accuracy position determination device further includes: a high accuracy position determination device including a set of high accuracy orientation data indicative of orientation of said high accuracy position determination device. 23. The position determination system of claim 22, wherein said high accuracy position determination device is configured to provide to at least one said portable position sensor a set of high accuracy orientation data indicative of orientation of said high accuracy position determination device. 24. The position determination system of claim 22, wherein said high accuracy position determination device further comprises: a Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) further including: an integrated Vector Global Positioning System (Vector GPS)/transceiver unit; and a display device; and an orientation device; wherein said integrated Vector Global Positioning System (Vector GPS) is configured to determine an orientation vector and a velocity vector of said MIS; and wherein said orientation device is configured to use said orientation vector and said velocity vector of said MIS for an initial calibration of at least one said portable position sensor; and wherein said orientation device is configured to use said orientation vector and said velocity vector of said MIS for subsequent re-calibration of at least one said portable position sensor at time instances when at least one said portable position sensor includes a velocity vector substantially equal to said velocity vector of said MIS. 25. The position determination system of claim 24, wherein said orientation device further comprises: a cavity configured to hold said integrated INS/transceiver for initial calibration or for subsequent re-calibration of said portable position sensor. 26. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein said high accuracy position determination device further comprises: a Portable Initialization Station (PIS) further including: an integrated Satellite Positioning System (SATPS)/transceiver unit; and a display device. 27. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein said high accuracy position determination device further comprises: a portable initialization station (PIS) further including: an integrated Global Positioning System (GPS)/transceiver unit; and a display device. 28. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein said high accuracy position determination device further comprises: a Portable Initialization Station (PIS) further including: an integrated Vector Global Positioning System (Vector GPS)/transceiver unit; and a display device; and an orientation device; wherein said integrated Vector Global Positioning System (Vector GPS) is configured to determine an orientation vector of said PIS; and wherein said orientation device is configured to use said orientation vector of said PIS for an initial calibration of at least one said portable position sensor; and wherein said orientation device is configured to use said orientation vector of said PIS for subsequent re-calibration of at least one said portable position sensor. 29. The position determination system of claim 28, wherein said orientation device further comprises; a cavity configured to hold said integrated INS/transceiver for initial calibration or for subsequent re-calibration of said portable position sensor. 30. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further comprises: a low power miniature INS integrated with a short range transceiver. 31. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further comprises: a low power miniature INS built into a wearable item selected from the group consisting of: {shoes; an article of clothing; and a watch}. 32. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further comprises: a low power miniature INS integrated with a short range transceiver and built into a wearable item selected from the group consisting of: {shoes; an article of clothing; and a watch}. 33. A method for tracking movable objects or personnel; each said movable object or a member of personnel including an portable position sensor; said method comprising the steps of: using a high accuracy position determination device to provide a set of high accuracy initialization data including a set of high accuracy absolute positional data indicative of location of said high accuracy position determination device, a set of high accuracy velocity/acceleration data indicative of velocity/acceleration of said high accuracy position determination device, and a set of high accuracy orientation data indicative of orientation of said high accuracy position determination device to at least one said portable position sensor; substantially continuously measuring a set of absolute acceleration data adjusted for a local gravitational factor of each said portable position sensor by using said portable position sensor; generating a set of absolute velocity data indicative of each said portable position sensor absolute velocity by incorporating said set of high accuracy initialization data into said set of measured absolute acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor by using said portable position sensor; generating a set of absolute positional data indicative of each said portable position sensor location by integrating said set of high accuracy initialization data into said set of generated absolute velocity data by using said portable position sensor; generating a set of INS positional error data that indicates a degree of accuracy of each said portable position sensor location by using said portable position sensor; and generating a set of INS absolute velocity/acceleration vector error data that indicates a degree of accuracy of each said portable position sensor absolute velocity/acceleration vector by using said portable position sensor. 34. The method of claim 33 further including the step of: substantially continuously broadcasting each said set of INS data including said set of absolute positional data indicative of one said INS module location by using at least one communication link between each said INS module and a Mobile Initialization Sation (MIS) or a Portable Initialization Station (PIS). 35. The method of claim 34 further including the step of: substantially continuously broadcasting each said set of INS data including said set of absolute velocity/acceleration data indicative of said INS module absolute velocity/acceleration using said at least one communication link between each said INS module and said MIS or said PIS. 36. The method of claim 35 further including the steps of: substantially continuously broadcasting said set of INS positional error data by using said at least one communication link between each said INS module and said MIS or said PIS; and substantially continuously broadcasting said set of INS absolute velocity/acceleration vector error data by using said at least one communication link between each said INS module and said MIS or said PIS. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein said step of using said high accuracy position determination device to provide said set of high accuracy initialization data to said at least one portable position sensor further includes the steps of: providing an initial calibration to each said portable position sensor by using a communication link between said high accuracy position determination device and said one portable position sensor; and providing subsequent re-calibration to at least one portable position sensor by using said communication link between said high accuracy position determination device and said one INS module that broadcasts a set of INS positional error data exceeding a predetermined positional error data threshold. 38. The method of claim 37 further including the step of: providing subsequent re-calibration to at least one portable position sensor by using said communication link between said high accuracy position determination device and said one INS module that broadcasts a set of INS absolute velocity/acceleration vector error data exceeding a predetermined absolute velocity/acceleration vector error data threshold. 39. The method of claim 37, wherein said step of providing said subsequent re-calibration to said at least one portable position sensor further includes the step of: providing said subsequent re-calibration to said at least one portable position sensor while at least one said portable position sensor includes a velocity vector that is substantially equal to said velocity vector of said high accuracy position determination device. 40. The method of claim 33, wherein said step of providing said set of high accuracy initialization data to said at least one portable position sensor further includes the step of: using a one-way Bluetooth communication link between said high accuracy position determination device and each said portable position sensor. 41. The method of claim 33, wherein said step of providing said set of high accuracy initialization data to said at least one portable position sensor further includes the step of: using a Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) including an integrated Satellite Positioning System (SATPS)/transceiver unit to continuously obtain said set of high accuracy initialization data. 42. The method of claim 33, wherein said step of providing said set of high accuracy initialization data to said at least one portable position sensor further includes the step of: using a Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) including an integrated Global Positioning System (GPS)/transceiver unit to continuously obtain said set of high accuracy initialization data. 43. The method of claim 33, wherein said step of providing said set of high accuracy initialization data to said at least one portable position sensor further includes the step of: using a Portable Initialization Station (PIS) including an integrated Satellite Positioning System (SATPS)/transceiver unit to continuously obtain said set of high accuracy initialization data. 44. The method of claim 33, wherein said step of providing said set of high accuracy initialization data to said at least one portable position sensor further includes the step of: using a Portable Initialization Station (PIS) including an integrated Global Positioning System (GPS)/transceiver unit to continuously obtain said set of high accuracy initialization data. 45. The method of claim 33 further including the step of: displaying said set of INS positional error data further including a set of INS positional error data that indicates a degree of accuracy of each said portable position sensor location by using a display device. 46. A position determination system for personnel members or movable objects, each said personnel member or each said movable object including an INS module; said system comprising: a means for determining an INS acceleration data adjusted for a local gravitational factor for each said INS module; a means for wireless communication with each said INS module; and a high accuracy position determination means capable of determining its position and velocity with high accuracy; wherein said high accuracy position and velocity data provided by said high accuracy position determination means is received by each said INS module by using said means for wireless communication, and wherein said received high accuracy position and velocity data and said INS acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor are used to derive an INS positional data corresponding to each said INS module. 47. The position determination system of claim 46, wherein at least one said INS module further includes: a portable data processing means; wherein said portable data processing means is configured to derive said set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module. 48. The position determination system of claim 46, wherein at least one said INS module further includes: a memory means configured to record said set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module over a time period. 49. The position determination system of claim 46, wherein at least one said INS module further includes: a display means configured to display said set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module over a time period. 