A multi-lap mold manufacturing system includes an overhead rail circuit upon which a multiple of molds transit a closed loop for a multiple of laps. The system is separated into Zones in which a particular mold operation is performed relative to which lap each of the plurality of molds has completed. At least one of the Zones is a spray Zone in which the mold is sprayed robotically. Robot utilization is extremely high as multiple spray operations occur in but a few spray Zones. Application of exceedingly expensive environmental emission control devices is at least partially mitigated by the reduced number of spray stations and the much smaller factory footprint. Consolidation of multiple spray operations into a few spray Zones also advantageously simplifies the control of chemical and ambient variables which improves production efficiencies and reduces operator dependency.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of molding an article comprising the steps of: (1) defining a closed circuit; (2) transiting a plurality of open molds about the closed circuit for a plurality of laps; and (3) performing a predetermined series of operations during each of said plurality of laps, the predetermined series of operations including transiting the plurality of open molds through a spraying operation as a multiple of sets in which each set includes a reoccurring sequence of open molds in which each open mold within each set is on a different lap. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said step (3) comprises a spraying operation during each of the laps. 3. A method as recited in claim 2, wherein said spraying operation occurs within a common spray booth during each of the laps. 4. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of laps of said step (2) comprises three laps and three open molds within the set. 5. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said step (2) comprises transiting a plurality of molds along the closed circuit in a predetermined sequence. 6. A method as recited in claim 5, further comprising the step of: ordering the plurality of molds into the spraying operation as a reoccurring sequence of sets of open molds. 7. A method as recited in claim 5, further comprising the step of: ordering the plurality of molds in a reoccurring sequence dependent upon which lap each of the plurality of molds has completed. 8. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of: ordering the set with a mold on a first lap following a mold on a final lap. 9. A method as recited in claim 8, wherein said ordering step further comprises the step of: following the mold on the first lap with a mold on a second lap. 10. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of: queuing the plurality of molds after completion of one of the plurality of laps within a queue along the closed circuit. 11. A method as recited in claim 10, wherein said queuing step further comprises the step of: curing the plurality of molds while within the queue. 12. A method as recited in claim 10, wherein said queuing step further comprises the step of: segregating the plurality of molds into a first and a second parallel queue relative to which lap each of the plurality of molds has completed. 13. A method as recited in claim 12, wherein said queuing step further comprising the steps of: releasing a first mold from the first queue; releasing a second mold and a third mold from the second queue; and sequencing the third mold after the second mold and the second mold after the first mold along the closed circuit. 14. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: segregating the plurality of molds into a first queue and a second queue relative to which lap each of the plurality of molds has completed; transiting the molds within the first queue through a first spraying operation; and transiting the molds within the second queue through a second spraying operation. 15. A method as recited in claim 14, wherein said first spraying operation and said second spraying operation are performed sequentially. 16. A method as recited in claim 14, wherein said first spraying operation and said second spraying operation are performed sequentially by a single robotic sprayer. 17. A method of molding an article comprising the steps of: (1) defining a closed circuit; (2) ordering a plurality of open molds in a reoccurring sequence dependent upon which lap each of the plurality of molds has completed; (3) transiting the plurality of open molds about the closed circuit for a plurality of laps; and (4) performing a predetermined series of operations on each of the plurality of open molds during each of said plurality of laps, the predetermined series of operations including transiting the plurality of open molds through a spraying operation as a multiple of sets in which each set includes a reoccurring sequence of open molds in which each open mold within each set is on a different lap. 18. A method as recited in claim 17, further comprising the step of: queuing the plurality of molds prior to said spraying operation. 19. A method as recited in claim 18, wherein said queuing step further comprises the step of: segregating the plurality of molds into a first and a second parallel queue relative to which lap each of the plurality of molds has completed prior to said spraying operation. 20. A method as recited in claim 17, further comprising the step of: segregating the plurality of molds into a first and a second parallel queue relative to which lap each of the plurality of molds has completed; transiting a first mold from the first queue through a first spraying operation; and transiting a second mold from the second queue through a second spraying operation. 21. A method as recited in claim 20, further comprising the steps of: transiting the first mold from the first spraying operation to a third queue along a common circuit with said first queue; and transiting the second mold from the second spraying operation to a fourth queue along a common circuit with said second queue. 22. A method as recited in claim 21, further comprising the steps of: merging the first mold from the third queue with the second mold from the fourth queue into a fifth queue; curing the first mold and the second mold within the fifth queue. 23. A method as recited in claim 21, further comprising the steps of: releasing the first mold from the third queue; releasing the second mold and a third mold from the fourth queue; merging the first mold from the third queue with the second mold and the third mold from the fourth queue into a fifth queue such that the molds within the fifth queue are sequenced in a predetermined order; and curing the molds within the fifth queue. 24. A method as recited in claim 23, further comprising the steps of: releasing the first mold, second mold and the third mold from the fifth queue as a set of molds sequenced in said predetermined order. 25. A method of molding an article comprising the steps of: (1) defining a closed circuit; (2) transiting a plurality of open molds about the closed circuit for a plurality of laps; (3) performing a predetermined series of operations during each of said plurality of laps, the predetermined series of operations including transiting the plurality of open molds through a spraying operation as a multiple of sets in which each set includes a reoccurring sequence of open molds in which each open mold within each set is on a different lap; and (4) removing one of the plurality of open molds from the closed circuit to perform an off-circuit operation. 26. A method as recited in claim 25, wherein said step (4) comprises transiting the one of the plurality of open molds along an exit spur which extends from the closed circuit. 27. A method as recited in claim 25, wherein the off-circuit operation of said step (4) comprises a repair operation. 28. A method as recited in claim 25, wherein the off-circuit operation of said step (4) comprises removing the one of the plurality of molds to a storage area. 29. A method of molding an article comprising the steps of: (1) defining a closed circuit; (2) transiting a plurality of open molds about the closed circuit for a plurality of laps; (3) performing a predetermined series of operations during each of said plurality of laps, the predetermined series of operations including transiting the plurality of open molds through a spraying operation as a multiple of sets in which each set includes a reoccurring sequence of open molds in which each open mold within each set is on a different lap; and (4) transiting a mold along a spur which extends from the closed circuit to insert an open mold to the plurality of open molds on the closed circuit. 30. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said step (3) further comprises ordering each open mold within each set in a third lap, first lap, second lap sequence prior to entering the spraying operation. 31. A method as recited in claim 17, wherein said step (4) further comprises ordering each open mold within each set in a third lap, first lap, second lap sequence prior to entering the spraying operation. 32. A method as recited in claim 25, wherein said step (3) further comprises ordering each open mold within each set in a third lap, first lap, second lap sequence prior to entering the spraying operation. 33. A method as recited in claim 29, wherein said step (3) further comprises ordering each open mold within each set in a third lap, first lap, second lap sequence prior to entering the spraying operation. 34. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the spraying operation of said step (3) further comprises: continually cycling through three positions. 35. A method as recited in claim 17, wherein the spraying operation of said step (4) further comprises: continually cycling through three positions. 36. A method as recited in claim 25, wherein the spraying operation of said step (4) further comprises: continually cycling through three positions. 37. A method as recited in claim 29, wherein the spraying operation of said step (4) further comprises: continually cycling through three positions. 38. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of: starting-up and shutting-down the transiting of the plurality of open molds in a staged manner. 