A coronary artery bypass graft procedure is performed through one or more openings made in the patient to create a point of entry to the thoracic cavity. A vein measurement device measures the distance between the proximal and distal anastomotic sites for each graft. A proximal anastomosis tool splits to release a graft vessel after deploying an anastomosis device at the proximal anastomosis site. The tool may be articulated. An integrated stabilizer stabilizes one or more tools relative to the surface of the beating heart at a distal anastomotic site. A distal anastomotic tool may be provided as part of the integrated stabilizer, and connects one end of the graft vessel to a target vessel. An epicardial dissector may be provided as part of the integrated stabilizer, and dissects the epicardium from the target vessel at a distal anastomotic site, as needed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing beating-heart closed-chest surgery on a patient to connect a graft vessel to at least one target vessel, comprising: creating at least one point of entry into the thoracic cavity; gaining access to a distal anastomotic site; stabilizing the heart by inserting through at least one point of entry an integrated stabilizer connected to a tool; and performing a distal anastomosis between an end of the graft vessel and the side of the target vessel with said tool while the heart is beating, said performing comprising stapling the graft vessel to the target vessel and creating an opening in the target vessel. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing a proximal anastomosis between the graft vessel and another target vessel while the heart is beating, utilizing a tool inserted through at least one point of entry. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said performing a proximal anastomosis comprises: placing an end of a tool substantially normal to the target vessel, said tool holding the graft vessel; and deploying an anastomosis device to attach the graft vessel to the target vessel. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising splitting said tool to release the graft vessel. 5. The method of claim 2, further comprising measuring the distance between the proximal anastomosis site and the distal anastomotic site with a vein measuring device inserted through at least one point of entry into the thoracic cavity. 6. The method of claim 2, further comprising viewing the anastomosis sites during the procedure. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said creating comprises utilizing a sub-xyphoid approach. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said creating comprises utilizing an intercostal approach. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising deploying a trocar port in at least one point of entry into the thoracic cavity. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said gaining access comprises creating an opening in the pericardium, wherein the opening extends substantially from the aorta to the apex of the heart. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said gaining access comprises accessing the intrapericardial space. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said performing a distal anastomosis further comprises attaching a clamp assembly to the distal end of the graft vessel. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising slicing the distal end of the graft vessel. 14. The method of claim 12, further comprising connecting said clamp assembly to said tool. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing at least one additional distal anastomosis. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said distal anastomosis is sutureless. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said stabilizing includes exerting a force against both the heart and the chest wall, whereby said force restricts motion of the heart. 18. A The method of claim 1, wherein said integrated stabilizer has a substantially oval perimeter configured to contact the heart. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising a linkage connected to said integrated stabilizer, wherein said linkage extends out of at least one point of entry during said stabilizing and said performing. 20. A method for performing beating-heart closed-chest surgery on a patient to connect a graft vessel to at least one target vessel, comprising: creating at least one point of entry into the thoracic cavity; gaining access to a distal anastomotic site; stabilizing the heart by inserting through at least one point of entry an integrated stabilizer connected to a tool; performing a proximal anastomosis between the graft vessel and another target vessel while the heart is beating utilizing a tool inserted through at least one point of entry wherein said proximal anastomosis is sutureless; and performing a distal anastomosis between an end of the graft vessel and the side of the target vessel with said tool while the heart is beating. 21. A method for performing beating-heart closed-chest surgery on a patient to connect a graft vessel to at least one target vessel, comprising: creating at least one point of entry into the thoracic cavity; gaining access to a distal anastomotic site; stabilizing the heart by inserting through at least one point of entry an integrated stabilizer connected to a tool, wherein said stabilizing includes securing the integrated stabilizer to the heart by deploying at least one clip from said integrated stabilizer to engage the heart; performing a distal anastomosis between an end of the graft vessel and the side of the target vessel with said tool while the heart is beating; and removing at least one said clip after said performing. 22. A method for performing beating-heart closed-chest surgery on a patient to connect a graft vessel to at least one target vessel, comprising: creating at least one point of entry into the thoracic cavity; gaining access to a distal anastomotic site; stabilizing the heart by inserting through at least one point of entry an integrated stabilizer having an open space and connected to a tool; and performing a distal anastomosis between an end of the graft vessel and the side of the target vessel with said tool while the heart is beating, wherein said tool is positioned substantially within said open space of said integrated stabilizer during said performing wherein said integrated stabilizer comprises a shell having said open space. 23. A method for performing beating-heart closed-chest surgery on a patient to connect a graft vessel to at least one target vessel, comprising: creating at least one point of entry into the thoracic cavity; gaining access to a distal anastomotic site; stabilizing the heart by inserting through at least one point of entry an integrated stabilizer connected to a tool, wherein said integrated stabilizer includes an integrated endoscope; and performing a distal anastomosis between an end of the graft vessel and the side of the target vessel with said tool while the heart is beating. 24. A method for performing beating-heart closed-chest surgery on a patient to connect a graft vessel to at least one target vessel, comprising: creating at least one point of entry into the thoracic cavity; gaining access to a distal anastomotic site; stabilizing the heart by inserting through at least one point of entry an integrated stabilizer connected to a tool, wherein said integrated stabilizer includes a shell having an open space therein and an integrated light source; and performing a distal anastomosis between an end of the graft vessel and the side of the target vessel with said tool while the heart is beating wherein said tool is positioned substantially within said open space of said shell during said performing. 25. A method for performing beating-heart closed-chest surgery on a patient to connect a graft vessel to at least one target vessel, comprising: creating at least one point of entry into the thoracic cavity; gaining access to a distal anastomotic site; stabilizing the heart by inserting through at least one point of entry an integrated stabilizer connected to a tool, wherein said tool includes an anvil; and performing a distal anastomosis between an end of the graft vessel and the side of the target vessel with said tool while the heart is beating, wherein said performing comprises inserting said anvil through the wall of and into the lumen of the target vessel. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising moving said anvil against the wall of the target vessel. 