The invention relates to a tactile sensor capable of obtaining information for a plurality of degrees of freedom at each point on a surface by introducing multi-channel sensing that uses color or optical spectrum to an optical tactile sensor. An optical tactile sensor is provided with a tactile section and imaging means, the tactile section comprising a transparent elastic body and a plurality of groups of markers provided inside the elastic body, each marker group being made up of a number of colored markers, with markers making up different marker groups having different colors for each group, and behavior of the colored markers when an object touches the elastic body being photographed by the imaging means. Preferably, the marker groups have mutually different spatial arrangements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An optical tactile sensor having a tactile portion and imaging device, said tactile portion comprising a transparent elastic body and a plurality of marker groups provided in said body, each marker group being comprised of a number of colored markers, with markers constituting different marker groups having different colors for each group, and behavior of colored markers being photographed by said imaging device when said elastic body is contacted by an object. 2. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said behavior of the markers comprises at least one of displacement, strain and inclination of the markers. 3. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said marker groups have different spatial arrangements from each other. 4. The sensor of claim 3, wherein said marker groups are laminated in the elastic body. 5. The sensor of claim 3, wherein said marker groups intersect each other in the elastic body. 6. The sensor of claim 4, wherein the markers constituting the marker groups are microscopic spherical particles and the spherical markers constituting the marker group for each layer have different colors from each other. 7. The sensor of claim 6, wherein said imaging device is arranged at a position opposite to a surface touched by the object, the layers are laminated away from said surface in said transparent elastic body, and the distribution density of markers for each marker group is made smaller away from the surface. 8. The sensor of claim 4, wherein the markers constituting the marker groups are extremely thin cylindrical or columnar bodies having microscopic cross sections, a number of markers are aligned in parallel to form each marker group, and the extremely thin markers constituting the marker group for each layer have different colors from each other. 9. The sensor of claim 8, wherein said extremely thin markers extend along an observation direction. 10. The sensor of claim 5, wherein the markers constituting the marker groups are thin strips, a number of strip markers are aligned in parallel to form each marker group, and the strip markers constituting each marker group have different colors from each other. 11. The sensor of claim 10, wherein said marker groups are two marker groups embedded in the elastic body. 12. The sensor of claim 11, wherein the strip markers for each marker group perpendicularly intersect each other. 13. The sensor of claim 10, wherein side portions of the strip markers extend along an observation direction. 14. The sensor of claim 13, wherein the side portions of the strip markers have different colors for each side. 15. The sensor of claim 10, wherein the side portions of the strip markers are inclined to an observation direction. 16. The sensor of claim 3, wherein the tactile portion comprises a plurality of plane markers arranged facing an observation direction, said plane markers are normally concealed by concealment markers, each plane marker is partitioned into a plurality of portions having different colors for each portion, and the partitioned portions having the same color constitute each marker group. 17. The sensor of claim 16, wherein said plane markers and said concealment markers are provided and spaced with each other in the elastic body, and an arrangement is made such that said plane markers are concealed by said concealment markers and not observed in a state where external force is not acting on the transparent elastic body. 18. The sensor of claim 3, wherein each marker group is a plane group comprised of a plurality of planes extending in the same direction, and extending directions and colors thereof are different between each marker group. 19. The sensor of claim 18, wherein planes constituting the plane group for each marker group are spacedly arranged with each other, and each plane constituting one marker group is arranged between each plane constituting another marker group. 20. The sensor of claim 19, wherein edges of each plane are adjoining. 21. The sensor of claim 18, wherein said tactile portion comprises two marker groups. 22. The sensor of claim 21, wherein the plane groups for respective marker groups comprise inclined surfaces that mutually extend in different directions with respect to the contact surface, and when viewing along an observation direction, all inclined surfaces extend in parallel to each other. 23. The sensor of claim 18, wherein said tactile portion comprises three marker groups. 24. The sensor of claim 18, wherein the planes constituting each marker group are adjoining with edges thereof to form stepped surfaces, said planes comprise a color filter that only allows a respective different color, said stepped surface is contacted by the object via a light guide film, there is no contact between the light guide and the stepped surfaces when there is no contact with the object, and contact between the light guide and the stepped surfaces starts when there is contact with the object such that white light filled inside the light guide passes through the color filters of the stepped surfaces and is imaged as colored light. 25. The sensor of claim 1, said sensor further comprising one or more light source. 26. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said imaging device is arranged at a position opposite to the side of the transparent elastic body contacted by the object. 27. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said markers are made of an elastic material. 28. The sensor of claim 1, wherein portions of the elastic body constitute colored markers. 29. A tactile portion for an optical tactile sensor, said portion comprising a transparent elastic body and a plurality of marker groups provided in said elastic body, and each marker group being comprised of a number of colored markers, with markers constituting different marker groups having different colors for each group. 30. The portion of claim 29, wherein said marker groups have different spatial arrangements from each other. 31. A sensing method using an optical tactile sensor having a tactile portion and imaging device, said tactile portion comprising a transparent elastic body and a plurality of marker groups provided in said body, each marker group being comprised of a number of colored markers, with markers constituting different marker groups having different colors for each group, said method comprising taking images of behavior of colored markers by said imaging device when said elastic body is contacted by an object and processing said images, and observing at least one of displacement, strain and inclination of markers to obtain tactile information about a plurality of degrees of freedom. 32. The method of claim 31, the method comprising selectively perceiving makers of a certain color from a plurality of colored markers having different colors. 33. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said colored marker is made of a colored material. 34. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said colored marker is a marker whose surface is coated with a colored material. 35. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said colored marker is a marker whose surface is coated with a photosensitive material. 36. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said colored marker is a marker whose surface comprises a surface for scattering light. 37. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said colored filter comprises a color filter. 