A robotic portion 1 has X-axis, Y-axis and Z-axis modules 2, 3, 4 and can move in three axial directions. This robotic portion 1 is mounted in such a manner as to move on a second base 10 in the X-axis direction. Furthermore, the second base is mounted in such a manner as to move on a first base 12 in the Y-axis direction. Then, the robotic portion 1 can be moved on either the first or second base 12, 10 on pins 7, 8 provided on the Z-axis module 4 which act as fulcrums by moving the robotic portion 1 in the Y-axis direction or the X-axis direction with the pins 7, 8 being inserted into hole portions 14, 11 formed in the first or second base 12, 10.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self-moved robotic apparatus comprising: a first base; a second base mounted on said first base and adapted to move on said first base in a Y-axis direction; a robot base portion mounted on said second base and adapted to move in an X-axis direction which intersects at right angles with the Y-axis direction; a first robot movable portion adapted to move on said robot base portion in the X-axis direction; and a second robot movable portion adapted to move on said first robot movable portion in the Y-axis direction, said second robot movable portion having an engagement portion adapted to engage with either said first base or said second base, wherein: when said robot base portion is moved in the Y-axis direction and said engagement portion of said second robot movable portion is in engagement with said first base, said robot base portion moves together with said second base on said first base in the Y-axis direction by driving said second robot movable portion; and when said robot base portion is allowed to move in the X-axis direction and said engagement portion of said second robot movable portion is in engagement with said second base, said robot base portion moves on said second base in the x-axis direction by driving said first robot movable portion. 2. A self-moved robotic apparatus, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said second robot movable portion has a movable portion which can move in a Z-axis direction which intersects at right angles with both the X-axis direction and the Y-axis direction. 3. A self-moved robotic apparatus as set forth in claim 2, further comprising a first locking mechanism for fixing said second base to said first base and a second locking mechanism for fixing said robot base portion to said second base. 4. A self-moved robotic apparatus as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a first locking mechanism for fixing said second base to said first base and a second locking mechanism for fixing said robot base portion to said second base. 5. A self movable robotic apparatus comprising: a base (12, 10); a robot base portion (2) mounted on the base in a manner that the robot base portion (2) is movable in an X-axis direction; a robotic portion having a robotic movable portion (3, 4, 4a) mounted on the robot base portion and an objective portion (5, 6) which is moved in the X-axis direction and a Y-axis direction with respect to the robot base portion (2) by driving the robotic movable portion; an X-axis locking mechanism (9) which holds the robot base portion (2) on the base (12, 10) with respect to the X-direction, when the robotic movable portion (3, 4, 4a) is driven to move the objective portion (5, 6) within a movable area which is associated with an X-axis location of the robot base portion (2) on the base (12, 10), and an X-axis engagement mechanism (7, 11) which holds the robotic movable portion (3, 4, 4a) on the base (12, 10) with respect to the X-direction, when the X-axis locking mechanism (9) is released and the robotic movable portion (3, 4, 4a) is driven to move the robot base portion (2) in the X-axis direction so as to change the X-axis location of the robot base portion (2) and the movable area of the objective portion (5, 6); wherein a movable range of the robotic movable portion (3, 4, 4a) in the X-axis direction on the base (12, 10) is longer than a movable range of the robotic movable (3, 4, 4a) in the X-axis direction on the robot base potion (2), due to the movement of the robot base portion in the X-axis direction by means of the robotic movable portion (3, 4, 4a). 6. The self-movable robotic apparatus claimed in claim 5, wherein the objective portion (5, 6) includes a hand mechanism (5). 7. The self-movable robotic apparatus claimed in claim 5, wherein the objective portion (5, 6) is moved in the X-axis, the Y-axis and a Z-axis directions with respect to the robot base portion (2) by driving the robotic movable portion. 8. The self-movable robotic apparatus claimed in claim 5, wherein the base includes a first base (12) and a second base (10) mounted on the first base in a manner that the second base (10) is movable in the Y-direction. 9. The self-movable robotic apparatus claimed in claim 8, further comprising: a Y-axis locking mechanism (13) which holds the second base (10) on the first base (12) with respect to the Y-direction, when the robotic movable portion (3, 4, 4a) is driven to move the objective portion (5, 6) within the movable area which is associated with a Y-axis location of the second base (10) on the first base (12); and a Y-axis engagement mechanism (8, 14) which holds the robotic movable portion (3, 4, 4a) on the first base (12) with respect to the Y-direction, when the Y-axis locking mechanism (13) is released and the robotic movable portion (3, 4, 4a) is driven to move the second base (10) in the Y-axis direction so as to change the Y-axis location of the robot base portion (2) and the movable area of the objective portion (5, 6). 