A method of creating and using a polishing substrate having a coating layer is described. The method that includes providing a substrate having one or more predetermined patterns disposed on a surface of the substrate and coating the surface of the substrate with an abrasive to form a coated substrate conforming to the predetermined pattern. An apparatus enabling preparation and use of a fixed abrasive polishing member is described. The apparatus includes a patterned substrate, an abrasive coating a surface of the patterned substrate and a vacuum deposition chamber in which the abrasive is applied to the surface of the substrate. In addition, rather than a fixed abrasive, non-abrasive material may be applied to the surface of the patterned substrate, in which case, a conventional slurry may be used in planarization of an applied semiconductor wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for preparation and use of a polishing substrate comprising: a substrate having a plurality of predetermined patterns of different three-dimensional shapes, a base of each of the plurality of patterns disposed along substantially the same plane; a coating layer coated on a surface of the substrate; a vacuum deposition chamber, configured to receive the substrate and in which the coating layer is applied to the surface of the substrate; and a chemical-mechanical polishing chamber disposed downstream from the vacuum deposition chamber and configured to receive both the coated substrate and a semiconductor wafer, the chemical-mechanical polishing chamber configured to planarize the semiconductor wafer. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the coating layer comprises an abrasive layer. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a binder layer disposed between the abrasive layer and the surface of the substrate. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a cure mechanism that applies a curing process to the coated substrate prior to planarization of the semiconductor wafer such that the abrasive is bound to the substrate. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the coating layer comprises a non-abrasive material layer that is suitable for use with an abrasive slurry. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising a binder layer disposed between the non-abrasive material layer and the surface of the substrate. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising a cure mechanism that applies a curing process to the coated substrate prior to planarization of the semiconductor wafer such that the non-abrasive material is bound to the substrate. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the coating layer comprises an abrasive/binder mixture. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a cure mechanism that applies a curing process to the coated substrate prior to planarization of the semiconductor wafer such that the abrasive/binder mixture layer is bound to the substrate. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a cleaning chamber that removes at least a remainder of the coating layer from the substrate subsequent to application of the coated substrate to the semiconductor wafer via plasma-assisted gas etching, the cleaning chamber disposed downstream of the chemical-mechanical polishing chamber; and a substrate transfer mechanism that transfers the substrate from the cleaning chamber to the vacuum deposition chamber; wherein subsequent to the removal of the remainder of the coating layer from the substrate in the cleaning chamber, the substrate is transferred to the vacuum deposition chamber by the substrate transfer mechanism and a new coating layer is applied to the substrate. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of patterns are selected from the group consisting of a rectangular pattern, a trapezoidal pattern, a hemispherical pattern, a pillar pattern and a prismatic pattern. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of patterns have a maximum height of about 20 .mu.m to about 50 .mu.m and a maximum width of about 100 .mu.m to about 1000 .mu.m. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of patterns have a density of 60-95%. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein an area of the coating layer exposed as a fixed consumable remains constant with planarization usage. 15. An apparatus for preparation and use of a polishing substrate comprising: a substrate having a predetermined three-dimensional pattern; a coating layer disposed on a surface of the substrate, the coating layer containing an abrasive having particles of 0.1 .mu.m to 3.0 .mu.m, the coating layer being an outermost layer disposed on the substrate that contains any abrasive; a vacuum deposition chamber, configured to receive the substrate and in which the coating layer is applied to the surface of the substrate; and a chemical-mechanical polishing chamber disposed downstream from the vacuum deposition chamber and configured to receive both the coated substrate and a semiconductor wafer, the chemical-mechanical polishing chamber configured to planarize the semiconductor wafer. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a binder layer disposed between the coating layer and the surface of the substrate. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising a cure mechanism that applies a curing process to the coated substrate prior to planarization of the semiconductor wafer such that the coating layer is bound to the substrate. 18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the coating layer comprises a non-abrasive material layer that is suitable for use with an abrasive slurry. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a binder layer disposed between the non-abrasive material layer and the surface of the substrate. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a cure mechanism that applies a curing process to the coated substrate prior to planarization of the semiconductor wafer such that the non-abrasive material is bound to the substrate. 21. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the coating layer comprises an abrasive/binder mixture. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising a cure mechanism that applies a curing process to the coated substrate prior to planarization of the semiconductor wafer such that the abrasive/binder mixture layer is bound to the substrate. 23. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising: a cleaning chamber that removes at least a remainder of the coating layer from the substrate subsequent to application of the coated substrate to the semiconductor wafer via plasma-assisted gas etching, the cleaning chamber disposed downstream of the chemical-mechanical polishing chamber; and a substrate transfer mechanism that transfers the substrate from the cleaning chamber to the vacuum deposition chamber; wherein subsequent to the removal of the remainder of the coating layer from the substrate in the cleaning chamber, the substrate is transferred to the vacuum deposition chamber by the substrate transfer mechanism and a new coating layer is applied to the substrate. 24. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the pattern is selected from the group consisting of a rectangular pattern, a trapezoidal pattern, a hemispherical pattern, a pillar pattern and a prismatic pattern. 25. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the pattern has a maximum height of about 20 .mu.m to about 50 .mu.m and a maximum width of about 100 .mu.m to about 1000 .mu.m. 26. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the pattern has a density of 60-95%. 27. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein an area of the coating layer exposed as a fixed consumable remains constant with planarization usage. 