A robot apparatus 1 is to be electrically charged autonomously. An electrical charging device 100 is provided with two markers, namely a main marker 118 and a sub-marker 119, and the heights of the markers are pre-stored in the robot apparatus. When the robot apparatus 1 is to find the direction and the distance to the electrical charging device 100, a CCD camera 20 finds the direction vector of the marker from the photographed image. This direction vector is transformed into a position vector of a camera coordinate system {c} and further into a position vector of the robot coordinate system {b}. The coordinate in the height-wise direction in the robot coordinate system {b} is compared to the pre-stored height to find the distance between the markers and the robot apparatus and the direction of the robot apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrical charging system including a robot apparatus and an electrical charging device, said robot apparatus having built-in a power supply unit for driving and adapted for acting autonomously responsive to an inner state, said electrical charging device electrically charging said power supply unit, wherein said electrical charging device includes at least one marker provided at a predetermined position; said robot apparatus including imaging means for imaging a surrounding state; storage means having the information on the position of said marker pre-stored therein; position vector calculating means for calculating the distance and the direction to said marker from the information on said marker position stored in said storage means and from an image including the marker position, photographed by said imaging means; and operation controlling means for performing control for causing movement of said robot apparatus towards said electrical charging device depending on the distance and the direction to said marker calculated by said position vector calculating means. 2. The electrical charging system according to claim 1 wherein said at least one marker comprises plural markers, and at least two of said markers are provided at different positions of said electrical charging device; said storage means having stored therein the position relationships of said markers and the mounting positions thereof to said electrical charging device. 3. The electrical charging system according to claim 2 wherein said position vector calculating means includes direction vector calculating means for calculating a direction vector from the center of the angle of view of an image photographed by said imaging means to said marker position in said image; and coordinate transformation means for transforming the direction vector on the photographed image calculated by said direction vector calculating means to a position vector in an imaging coordinate system centered about said imaging means and for transforming the position vector of said imaging coordinate system centered about said imaging means into a position vector in a robot coordinate system centered about said robot apparatus; said position vector calculating means calculating the distance between said marker and the robot apparatus from a marker position in said robot apparatus and from a marker position stored in said storage means. 4. The electrical charging system according to claim 2 further comprising: coordinate system correlation calculating means for calculating the relative position and the relative angle between the robot coordinate system and the coordinate system of the electrical charging device centered about said electrical charging device from the position relationships of said markers, mounting positions of said markers in said electrical charging device and the distance and the directions of said markers calculated by said position vector calculating means. 5. The electrical charging system according to claim 2 wherein, if the totality of said markers are not imaged by said imaging means, said operation controlling means performs control so that the robot apparatus will be moved to a preset position with the already imaged marker as a reference. 6. The electrical charging system according to claim 2 wherein a coordinate of an entrance position the robot apparatus can reach by straightforward movement and a coordinate of a predetermined point around said electrical charging device are stored in said storage means by said coordinate system of the electrical charging device; said operation controlling means performing control to cause the robot apparatus to be moved to said entrance position through said predetermined point depending on the position relationships of said markers calculated by said position vector calculating means. 7. The electrical charging system according to claim 1 wherein the robot apparatus includes movement means; and wherein the point of origin of said robot coordinate system and the point of origin of said coordinate system of electrical charging device are set on the floor touch plane of said movement means. 8. An electrical charging controlling method for an electrical charging system including a robot apparatus and an electrical charging device, said robot apparatus having built-in a power supply unit for driving and adapted for acting autonomously responsive to an inner state thereof, said electrical charging device electrically charging said power supply unit, said controlling method comprising the steps of: pre-storing the information on the position of at least one marker; a position vector calculating step of calculating the distance and the direction to said marker from an image of said marker provided to an electrical charging device, photographed by said imaging step and from information on the position of said marker pre-stored in storage means; and performing control for causing movement of said robot apparatus towards said electrical charging device depending on the calculated distance and the direction to said marker. 9. The electrical charging controlling method according to claim 8 wherein said at least one marker comprises plural markers, and at least two of said markers are provided at different positions of said electrical charging device; the pre-stored information including the position relationships of said markers and the mounting positions thereof to said electrical charging device. 10. The electrical charging controlling method according to claim 9 wherein said position vector calculating step calculates a direction vector from the center of the angle of view of an image photographed by said imaging step to said marker position in said image; and further including a coordinate transformation step of transforming the direction vector on the photographed image calculated by said direction vector calculating step to a position vector in an imaging coordinate system centered about an imaging position and for transforming the position vector of said imaging coordinate system into a position vector in a robot coordinate system centered about said robot apparatus; said position vector calculating step calculates the distance between said marker and the robot apparatus from a marker position in said robot coordinate system and from a marker position stored in said storage means. 11. The electrical charging controlling method according to claim 10 further comprising: coordinate system correlation calculating step of calculating the relative position and the relative angle between the robot coordinate system and the coordinate system of the electrical charging device centered about said electrical charging device from the position relationships of said markers, mounting positions of said markers in said electrical charging device and the distance and the directions of said markers calculated by said position vector calculating step. 12. The electrical charging controlling method according to claim 9 wherein, if the totality of said markers are not imaged by said imaging step, said step of performing control performs control so that the robot apparatus will be moved to a preset position with the already imaged marker as a reference. 13. The electrical charging controlling method according to claim 9 wherein a coordinate of an entrance position from which the robot apparatus can reach by straightforward movement and a coordinate of a predetermined point around said electrical charging device are stored by said coordinate system of the electrical charging device; said step of performing control performs control to cause the robot apparatus to be moved to said entrance position through said predetermined point depending on the calculated position relationships of said markers. 14. The electrical charging controlling system according to claim 8 wherein the point of origin of said robot coordinate system and the point of origin of the of said coordinate system of said electrical charging device are set on a floor touch plane. 15. A robot apparatus having built-in a power supply unit for driving and adapted for acting autonomously responsive to an inner state thereof; said robot apparatus including imaging means for imaging a surrounding state; storage means having pre-stored the information on the position of at least one marker provided to an electrical charging device electrically charging said power supply unit; position vector calculating means for calculating the distance and the direction to said marker from the information on said marker position stored in said storage means and from an image including the marker position photographed by said imaging means; and operation controlling means for performing control for causing movement of said robot apparatus towards said electrical charging device depending on the distance and the direction to said marker calculated by said position vector calculating means. 16. The robot apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said at least one marker comprises plural markers, and at least two of said markers are provided at different positions of said electrical charging device; said storage means having stored therein the position relationships of said markers and the mounting positions thereof to said electrical charging device. 17. The robot apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said position vector calculating means includes direction vector calculating means for calculating a direction vector from the center of the angle of view of an image photographed by said imaging means to said marker position in said image; and coordinate transformation means for transforming the direction vector on the photographed image calculated by said direction vector calculating means to a position vector in an imaging coordinate system centered about said imaging means and for transforming the position vector of said imaging coordinate system into a position vector in a robot coordinate system centered about said robot apparatus; said position vector calculating means calculating the distance between said marker and the robot apparatus from a marker position in said robot coordinate system and from a marker position stored in said storage means. 18. The robot apparatus according to claim 16 further comprising: coordinate system correlation calculating means for calculating the relative position and the relative angle between the robot coordinate system and the coordinate system of the electrical charging device centered about said electrical charging device from the position relationships of said markers, mounting positions of said markers in said electrical charging device and the distance and the directions of said markers calculated by said position vector calculating means. 19. The robot apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said at least one marker comprises plural markers, and if the totality of said markers are not imaged by said imaging means, said operation controlling means performs control so that the robot apparatus will be moved to a preset position with the already imaged marker as a reference. 20. The robot apparatus according to claim 16 wherein a coordinate of an entrance position from which the robot apparatus can reach said electrical charging device by straightforward movement and a coordinate of a predetermined point around said electrical charging device are stored in said storage means by said coordinate system of the electrical charging device; said operation controlling means performing control to cause the robot apparatus to be moved to said entrance position through said predetermined point depending on the position relationships of said markers calculated by said position vector calculating means. 21. The robot apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the robot apparatus includes movement means; and wherein the point of origin of said robot coordinate system and the point of origin of said coordinate system of electrical charging device are set on the floor touch plane of said movement means. 22. In an electrical charging system including a robot apparatus and an electrical charging device, said robot apparatus having built-in a power supply unit for driving and adapted for acting autonomously responsive to an inner state, a program for allowing said robot apparatus to execute charging processing of electrically charging said power supply unit, said program comprising: an imaging step of imaging a surrounding state; a position vector calculating step of calculating the distance and direction to a marker from an image of said marker provided to an electrical charging device, photographed by said imaging step, and from the pre-stored information on said marker; and a movement controlling step of performing control for causing movement of said robot apparatus towards said electrical charging device depending on the distance and direction to said marker calculated by said position vector calculating step. 23. In an electrical charging system including a robot apparatus and an electrical charging device, said robot apparatus having built-in a power supply unit for driving and adapted for acting autonomously responsive to an inner state, a recording medium having recorded thereon a program for allowing said robot apparatus to execute charging processing of electrically charging said power supply unit, said program comprising: an imaging step of imaging a surrounding state; a position vector calculating step of calculating the distance and direction to a marker from an image of said marker provided to an electrical charging device, photographed by said imaging step, and from the pre-stored information on said marker; and a movement controlling step of performing control for causing movement of said robot apparatus towards said electrical charging device depending on the distance and direction to said marker calculated by said position vector calculating step. 