Disclosed is a microarray printing system and methods of printing probe microarrays. The system has a print-head formed of one or more capillary bundle, such as light-guiding capillaries. The bundles may especially be bundles of capillaries that provide a large number of probes on the surface of a substrate. Methods of registering or correlating the distal and proximal ends of the capillaries are also provided. Further, the invention provides methods and equipment for identifying defective microarrays that are missing one or more probes from the surface of the microarray.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A capillary bundle comprising: a body having a proximal end and a distal end; a plurality of isolated channels, each of said channels extending from said proximal end to said distal end and being surrounded by a channel wall having a first region in communication with said channel and at least a second region on a side of said first region opposite to said channel, wherein said first region has an optical refractive index higher than an optical refractive index of said second region so that light transmitted into the proximal end of said channel exits the capillary bundle at said distal end of said channel; and wherein at least at said proximal and said distal ends, a cross-section of said capillary bundle as defined by any section orthogonal to a length of said capillary bundle comprises a continuous structure. 2. The capillary bundle of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of said body located between said distal end and said proximal end is flexible such that said distal end may move independently of said proximal end. 3. The capillary bundle of claim 1, wherein said first region of said channel wall is doped with Germanium or lead. 4. The capillary bundle of claim 1, wherein at least one of said plurality of channels comprises an individual well located on said distal end where said channel exits from said distal end. 5. The capillary bundle of any of claim 1, 2, 3, or 4, wherein said capillary bundle comprises a continuous cross section throughout an entirety of said capillary bundle. 6. A print system for printing probe microarrays comprising: a capillary bundle comprising: a body having a proximal end and a distal end; a plurality of isolated channels, each of said channels extending from said proximal end to said distal end and being surrounded by a channel wall; at least a portion of said body located between said distal end and said proximal end being flexible such that said distal end may move independently of said proximal end; and wherein at least at said proximal and said distal ends a cross-section of said capillary bundle as defined by any section orthogonal to a length of said capillary bundle comprises a continuous structure; a plurality of reservoirs in fluid communication with said proximal ends of said channels of said capillary bundle; a voltage source connected to an electrically-conductive material at said proximal end and an electrically conductive material at said distal end of each of said channels; and a voltage controller being configured to individually adjust and control the voltage applied to each of said channels. 7. A print system for printing probe microarrays comprising: a capillary bundle comprising: a body having a proximal end and a distal end; a plurality of isolated channels, each of said channels extending from said proximal end to said distal end and being surrounded by a channel wall having a first region in communication with said channel and at least a second region on a side of said first region opposite to said channel, wherein said first region has an optical refractive index higher than an optical refractive index of said second region so that light transmitted into the proximal end of said channel exits the capillary bundle at said distal end of said channel; and wherein at least at said proximal and said distal ends, a cross-section of said capillary bundle as defined by any section orthogonal to a length of said capillary bundle comprises a continuous structure; and a plurality of reservoirs in fluid communication with said proximal ends of said channels of said capillary bundle. 8. A print system according to claim 6, further comprising a second plurality of reservoirs in fluid communication with said channels at said distal ends of said capillary bundle. 9. The print system of claim 6 or 7, wherein at least a portion of said channel wall is coated with a hydrophobic film. 10. The print system of claim 6 or 7, wherein said plurality of channels form a first arrangement at said proximal end, and a second arrangement at said distal end, and wherein said first arrangement is identical to said second arrangement. 11. The print system of claim 6 or 7, wherein a cross-sectional area of each of said channels in said first arrangement is greater than a cross-sectional area of each of said channels in said second arrangement. 12. The print system of claim 6 or 7, wherein said distal end of said capillary bundle contains at least 10,000 channels that print non-overlapping spots in an area of no more than 12 cm.sup.2 on a substrate. 13. The print system of claim 6 or 7, wherein said distal end of said capillary bundle contains at least 100,000 channels that print non-overlapping spots in an area of no more than 12 cm.sup.2 on a substrate. 14. A print system according to claim 6, 8, or 7, wherein said plurality of reservoirs comprises a microtiter plate having wells. 15. A print system according to claim 6, 8, or 7, wherein said channels at said distal end have an increased cross sectional area such that said distal end channels serve as reservoirs. 16. A print system according to claim 6, 8, or 7, and further comprising a flexible mount on which a substrate is placed prior to printing, said flexible mount being configured to move so that said capillary bundle for printing probe arrays contacts said substrate across said distal end of said capillary bundle despite said print-head and said substrate being aligned so that said print-head would not contact said substrate across said distal end of said capillary bundle in the absence of said flexible mount. 17. A print system according to claim 6, 8, or 7, wherein said plurality of reservoirs reside in fixed positions, and wherein said capillary bundle for printing probe arrays is movable in relation to said reservoirs. 18. A print system according to claim 6, 8, or 7, further comprising a probe selected from a group consisting of deoxyribonucleic acids (DNA), ribonucleic acids (RNA), synthetic oligonucleotides, antibodies, proteins, peptides, lectins, modified polysaecharides, synthetic composite macromolecules, functionalized nanostructures, synthetic polymers, modified/blocked nucleotides/nucleosides, modified/blocked amino acids, fluorophores, chromophores, ligands, chelates, haptens and drug compounds. 19. A print system according to claim 8, wherein said second plurality of reservoirs comprises a microtiter plate having wells. 20. A print system according to claim 7, wherein at least a portion of said body located between said distal end and said proximal end is flexible such that said distal end may move independently of said proximal end. 21. A print system according to claim 6 or 7, wherein at least one of said channels has an individual well where said channel exits said capillary bundle from said distal end. 22. A print system according to claim 6 or 7, wherein said capillary bundle comprises a continuous cross section throughout an entirety of said capillary bundle. 23. A capillary bundle according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said channels has an individual well where said channel exits said capillary bundle from said distal end. 