A workstation for sealing the spar of an aircraft. A robotic arm can be positioned on a platform with a sealant application system. The platform can be moved along a path adjacent the spar to move the robotic arm. The robotic arm can move the applicator of a sealant applying system to a portion of a spar that is to be sealed. The sealant system can be positioned on the platform to be moveable along the path. The robotic arm can be moveable relative to the platform. The path can be positioned overhead of the spar. The spar can be rotated by a rotating fixture so that the platform can be moved in opposite directions relative to the path. A controller can control the movement of the platform along the path, movement of the robotic arm relative to the platform, movement of the applicator by the robotic arm, and the application of sealant by the sealant applying system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing a spar comprising the steps of: defining a path along the spar with path means; applying sealant to at least a portion of the spar with robotic means moveable along the path; and rotating the spar to apply sealant to first and second sides of the spar. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the applying step further comprises the step of: moving a robotic arm in response to a signal emitted by a machine vision system. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: confirming a position of robotic means along the path with sensors before the applying step. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the applying step further comprises the step of: selectively moving robotic means in a first direction followed by a second direction onposite the first direction along at least a portion of the path to apply sealant with respect to the spar. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the applying step further comprises the step of: disposing a robotic arm on a platform moveable along the path where the platform is moveable along the path and the robotic arm is moveable relative to the platform. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the applying step further comprises the step of: applying sealant to a first portion of the spar with a first applicator; and applying sealant to a second portion of the spar with a second applicator where both first and second applicators are concurrently moveable along the path. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of rotating the spar further comprises rotating the spar about a longitudinal axis of the spar. 8. A method of processing a spar comprising: mounting the spar to a fixture; defining a path of travel for moving a robot adjacent a length of the spar; positioning the robot at a predetermined location along the path of travel adjacent a first side of the spar; applying a sealant to the first side of the spar by means of an applicator operably connected to the robot; rotating the spar about at least one connection to the fixture so as to enable the robot to access a second side of the spar; positioning the robot at a predetermined location along the path of travel adjacent the second side of the spar; and applying sealant through the applicator to the second side of the spar. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising the steps of: sensing position of the robot along the path of travel; and adjusting the position of the robot along the path of travel based, at least in part, on the sensed position of the robot. 10. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of positioning the applicator at a plurality of successive positions adjacent the spar for applying the sealant to a plurality of predetermined locations along at least one of the first and second sides of the spar. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of positioning the applicator at a plurality of successive positions adjacent the spar occurs while maintaining the positioning of the robot with respect to the path of travel. 12. The method claim 8 further comprising the step of verifying the positioning of the applicator relative to the spar prior to applying the sealant to at least one of the first and second sides of the spar. 13. The method of claim 8 further comprising the steps of: sensing the position of the applicator relative to the spar; comparing the sensed position of the applicator to dimensional data corresponding to a location along the length of the spar at which the sealant is to be applied; and repositioning the applicator based, at least in part, on the comparison of the sensed position of the applicator to the dimensional data of the location along the spar at which the sealant is to be applied. 14. The method of claim 8 further comprising the steps of: capturing an image of at least a portion of a surface of the spar; comparing the captured image to a preselected sample image; positioning the applicator relative to the spar based, at least in part, on the comparison of the captured image to the preselected sample image. 