Systems and methods for modifying a virtual object stored within a computer. The systems and methods allow virtual object modifications that are otherwise computationally inconvenient. The virtual object is represented as a volumetric representation. A portion of the volumetric model is converted into an alternative representation. The alternative representation can be a representation having a different number of dimensions from the volumetric representations. A stimulus is applied to the alternative representation, for example by a user employing a force-feedback haptic interface. The response of the alternative representation to the stimulus is calculated. The change in shape of the virtual object is determined from the response of the alternative representation. The representations of the virtual object can be displayed at any time for the user. The user can be provided a force-feedback response. Multiple stimuli can be applied in succession. Multiple alternative representations can be employed in the system and method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of modifying a virtual object stored within a computer, the method comprising the steps of: representing a virtual object as a volumetric model; converting a subset of volumetric model into a non-volumetric representation; modifying the non-volumetric representation according to stimulus, thereby simulating, a deformation of the virtual object while preserving surface detail; and modifying the volumetric model so as to substantially represent the modified non-volumetric representation. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein modifying the non-volumetric representation according to a stimulus comprises modifying the non-volumetric representation according to a first stimulus and further modifying the non-volumetric representation according to a second succeeding stimulus. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein modifying the volumetric model comprises a change in shape of the volumetric model. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein modifying the volumetric model comprises converting a response of the non-volumetric representation to the stimulus into a response of the volumetric model to the stimulus. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the subset of the volumetric model is the entire volumetric model. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the subset of the volumetric model is a portion of the volumetric model. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the volumetric model comprises voxels. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the volumetric model comprises values spaced in a three-dimensional grid. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the non-volumetric representation comprises a surface representation. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the non-volumetric representation comprises a set-of-triangles representation. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the stimulus comprises a weighted displacement function defined on vertices of the set-of-triangles representation. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the non-volumetric representation comprises a selected one of a polygon set, a bezier surface, a b-spline surface, a procedural surface, and a NURBS representation. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the stimulus is a stimulus from a user using a haptic interface. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the haptic interface is a force feedback interface. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the haptic interface has at least three degrees of force feedback. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of displaying the virtual object on a computer display. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the volumetric model and the non-volumetric representation comprise representations having different number of dimensions. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the stimulus comprises at least one of a displacement function, a smoothing function, a warping function, a volumetric interference, an areal interference, a result of a simulation, a control point modification, a data re-fitting, and a force. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the stimulus is applied to the object in real time. 20. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: transforming the non-volumetric representation into a third representation; modifying the third representation in response to an applied stimulus; and transforming the modified third representation to a modified volumetric representation. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein transforming the modified third representation to the modified volumetric representation comprises generating an intermediate modified representation. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the stimulus comprises a user motion in at least three-dimensional space. 23. The method of claim 1, further comprising applying a feedback force to a user, the feedback force being generally consistent with a geometric shape of a modified virtual object. 24. A method of modifying a volumetric representation of an object, the method comprising the steps of: transforming at least a portion of the volumetric representation into a polygonal set representation; modifying the polygonal set representation, thereby simulating a deformation of the object while preserving surface detail; and modifying the volumetric representation to substantially represent the modification made to the polygonal set representation. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the modification comprises selected one of a displacement function, a smoothing function, a warping function, a volumetric interference, an areal interference, a result of a simulation, a control point modification, a data re-fitting, and a force. 26. A method of modifying a volumetric representation of an object, the method comprising the steps of: transforming at least a portion of the volumetric representation into a surface-based representation; modifying the surface-based representation, thereby simulating a deformation of the object while preserving surface detail; and modifying the volumetric representation to substantially represent the modification made to the surface based representation. 27. A system for modifying a virtual object stored within a computer, the system comprising: a representation module that represents a virtual object as a volumetric model; a conversion module that converts a subset of the volumetric model into non-volumetric representation; an analytic module that modifies the non-volumetric representation according to a stimulus, thereby simulating a deformation of the virtual object while preserving surface detail; and a modification module that modifies the volumetric model so as to substantially represent the modified non-volumetric representation. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the analytic module that modifies the non-volumetric representation according to a stimulus comprises an analytic module that modifies the non-volumetric representation according to a first stimulus and further modifies the non-volumetric representation according to a second succeeding stimulus. 29. The system of claim 27, wherein the modification module that modifies the volumetric model comprises a modification module that changes a shape of the volumetric model. 30. The system of claim 27, wherein the modification module that modifies the volumetric model comprises a modification module that converts a response of the non-volumetric representation to the stimulus into a response of the volumetric model to the stimulus. 31. The system of claim 27, wherein the subset of the volumetric model is the entire volumetric model. 32. The system of claim 27, wherein the subset of the volumetric model is a portion of the volumetric model. 33. The system of claim 27, wherein the volumetric model comprises voxels. 34. The system of claim 27, wherein the volumetric model comprises values spaced in a three-dimensional grid. 35. The system of claim 27, wherein the non-volumetric representation comprises a surface representation. 36. The system of claim 27, wherein the non-volumetric representation comprises a set-of-triangles representation. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the stimulus comprises a weighted displacement function defined on vertices of the set-of-triangles representation. 38. The system of claim 27, wherein the non-volumetric representation comprises a selected one of a polygon set, bezier surface, a b-spline surface, a procedural surface, and a NURBS representation. 39. The system of clam 27, wherein the stimulus is a stimulus from a user using a haptic interface. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein the haptic interface is a force feedback interface. 41. The system of claim 39, wherein the haptic interface has at least three degrees of force feedback. 42. The system of claim 27, further comprising a display module that displays the virtual object on a computer display. 43. The system of claim 27, wherein the volumetric model and the non-volumetric representation comprise representations having different numbers of dimensions. 44. The system of claim 27, wherein the stimulus comprises at least one of a displacement function, a smoothing function, a warping function, a volumetric interference, an areal interference, a result of a simulation, a control point modification, a data re-fitting and a force. 45. The system of claim 27, wherein the stimulus si applied to the object in real time. 46. The system of claim 27, further comprising: a second transformation module that transforms the non-volumetric representation into a third representation; a third modification module that modifies the third representation in response to an applied stimulus; and a third information module that transforms the modified third representation to a modified volumetric representation. 47. The system of claim 46, wherein the third transformation module that transforms the modified third representation to the modified volumetric representation comprises a transformation module that generates an intermediate modified representation. 48. The system of claim 46, wherein at least two of the first, second and third modification modules are the same module. 49. The system of claim 46, wherein at least two of the first, second and third transformation modules are the same module. 50. The system of claim 27, wherein the stimulus comprises a user motion in at least three-dimensional space. 51. The system of claim 27, further comprising a force feedback module that applies a feedback force to a user, the feedback force being generally consistent with a geometric shape of a modified virtual object. 52. A system of modifying a volumetric representation of an object, the system comprising: a transformation module that transforms at least a portion of the volumetric representation into a polygonal set representation; a first modification module that modifies the polygonal set representation, thereby simulating a deformation of the object while preserving surface detail; and a second modification module that modifies the volumetric representation to substantially represent the modification made to the polygonal set representation. 53. The system of claim 52, wherein a selected one of the modification of the polygonal set representation and the modification of the volumetric representation comprises a selected one of a displacement function, a smoothing function, a warping function, a volumetric interference, an areal interference, a result of a simulation, a control point modification, a data re-fitting, and a force. 54. A system of modifying a volumetric representation of an object, the system comprising: a transformation module that transforms at least a portion of the volumetric representation into a surface-based representation; a first modification module that modifies the surface-based representation, thereby simulating a deformation of the object while preserving surface detail; and a second modification module that modifies the volumetric representation to substantially represent the modification made to the surface based representation. 