A land mine pressure fuse avoidance system has a base. A tread on the base contacts the ground around a land mine and independently distributes pressures around the ground. The tread has plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements. Each element is separated from adjacent elements for independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base, while other similarly independent elements support remaining portion of the load. The base is a cylindrical tire, a continuous track, a shoe sole attachment or a robotic foot, and the tread is conformed to and extends outward from the base. The independent elements of the tread are made of closed cell foam rubber formed as a tread on the base with notches between adjacent elements of the tread. Notches extend longitudinally along the tread, and notches extend across the tread, forming block shaped elements extending from the base. The notches extend into the tread for distances greater than heights above ground of clutter and of partially buried mines or fuses. In one form the tread has independent radially extending elements constructed of closed cell foam.
Claims I claim: 1. A land mine pressure fuse avoidance system comprising a base, a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and for distributing pressures around the ground, the tread comprising plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements, each element spaced from adjacent elements for independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base while other independent elements together support remaining portions of the load, wherein the base is a cylindrical tire, continuous track, or shoe sole attachment and the tread is conformed to and extends outward from the base, wherein each independent element is a closed cell foam rubber cylindrically formed as a tread on the base with notches between adjacent elements of the tread, wherein the notches are formed across the base and the closed cell foam rubber elements extend across the base. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base has side walls stretched into rims of a vehicle and wherein the base is filled with foam or air. 3. A land mine pressure fuse avoidance system comprising a base, a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and for distributing pressures around the ground, the tread comprising plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements each element separated from adjacent elements, an independent support formed by each of the elements for independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base while other similarly independent elements together support remaining portions of the load, wherein the base is a cylindrical tire, continuous track, or shoe sole attachment and the tread is conformed to and extends outward from the base, wherein each independent element is a closed cell foam rubber cylindrically formed as a tread on the base with notches between adjacent elements of the tread, and wherein the notches extend into the tread for distances greater than heights above ground of clutter or of partially buried mines or fuses. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the base is filled with foam or air and wherein the independent elements radially extend therefrom. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the base is a continuous track and the plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements are spaced laterally and longitudinally from next adjacent elements. 6. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the notches extend longitudinally along the tread separating the elements as longitudinal elements. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the notches extend across the tread, forming block shaped elements extending from the base. 8. A land mine pressure fuse avoidance system comprising a base, a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and for distributing pressures around the ground, the tread comprising plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements, each element spaced from adjacent elements for independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base while other independent elements together support remaining portions of the load, wherein the base is a vehicle track and wherein the independent closed cell foam elements are separated from laterally and longitudinally adjacent elements. 9. A land mine pressure fuse avoidance system comprising a base, a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and for distributing pressures around the ground, the tread comprising plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements, each element spaced from adjacent elements for independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base while other independent elements together support remaining portions of the load, wherein the base is a vehicle track and wherein the independent closed cell foam elements are separated from longitudinally adjacent elements. 10. A land mine pressure fuse avoidance system comprising a base, a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and for distributing pressures around the ground, the tread comprising plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements, each element spaced from adjacent elements for independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base while other independent elements together support remaining portions of the load, wherein the base is a vehicle track and wherein the independent closed cell foam elements are separated from laterally adjacent elements. 11. A method of avoiding triggering of pressure operated land mines comprising providing a base, providing a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and independently distributing pressures around the ground, wherein the providing a tread comprises providing plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements each element separated from adjacent elements, independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base with some of the elements, while simultaneously supporting remaining portions of the load with other independent elements acting together. 12. A method of avoiding triggering of pressure operated land mines comprising providing a base, providing a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and independently distributing pressures around the ground, wherein the providing a tread comprises providing plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements each element separated from adjacent elements, independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base with some of the elements, while simultaneously supporting remaining portions of the load with other independent elements acting together, wherein the providing the base comprises providing a cylindrical tire, a continuous track, or a shoe sole attachment and providing the tread comprises conforming the elements to the base and extending the elements outward from the base. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the providing the notches further comprises extending the notches into the tread for distances greater than heights above ground of clutter or of partially buried mines or fuses. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the providing the tread comprises providing a closed cell foam rubber cylinder formed as a tread on the base with notches between adjacent elements of the tread. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the providing notches comprises forming the notches across the base and the providing the closed cell foam rubber elements comprises extending the elements across the base. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the providing the notches comprises extending the notches longitudinally along the tread and separating the elements as longitudinal elements. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the providing the notches further comprises extending the notches across the tread and forming block shaped elements extending from the base. 18. A method of avoiding triggering of pressure operated land mines comprising providing a base, providing a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and independently distributing pressures around the ground, wherein the providing a tread comprises providing plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements each element separated from adjacent elements, independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base with some of the elements, while simultaneously supporting remaining portions of the load with other independent elements acting together, wherein the providing the base comprises providing a tire having side walls stretched to rims of a vehicle and providing the tire further comprises filling the tire with foam or air. 19. A method of avoiding triggering of pressure operated land mines comprising providing a base, providing a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and independently distributing pressures around the ground, wherein the providing a tread comprises providing plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements each element separated from adjacent elements, independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base with some of the elements; while simultaneously supporting remaining portions of the load with other independent elements acting together, wherein the providing the base comprises providing a cylindrical tire, filling the tire with foam or air, and wherein the providing the tread comprises providing independent radially extending elements constructed of closed cell foam. 20. A method of avoiding triggering of pressure operated land mines comprising providing a base, providing a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and independently distributing pressures around the ground, wherein the providing a tread comprises providing plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements each element separated from adjacent elements, independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base with some of the elements, while simultaneously supporting remaining portions of the load with other independent elements acting together, wherein the providing the base comprises providing continuous vehicle track and wherein the providing the tread comprises providing the independent closed cell foam elements separated from laterally and longitudinally adjacent elements. 21. A method of avoiding triggering of pressure operated land mines comprising providing a base, providing a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and independently distributing pressures around the ground, wherein the providing a tread comprises providing plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements each element separated from adjacent elements, independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base with some of the elements, while simultaneously supporting remaining portions of the load with other independent elements acting together, wherein the providing the base comprises providing a vehicle track and wherein the providing the tread comprises providing the independent closed cell foam elements separated from longitudinally adjacent elements. 22. A method of avoiding triggering of pressure operated land mines comprising providing a base, providing a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and independently distributing pressures around the ground, wherein the providing a tread comprises providing plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements each element separated from adjacent elements, independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base with some of the elements, while simultaneously supporting remaining portions of the load with other independent elements acting together, wherein the providing the base comprises providing a vehicle track and wherein the providing the tread comprises providing the independent closed cell foam elements separated from laterally adjacent elements. 23. A method of avoiding triggering of pressure operated land mines comprising providing a base, providing a tread on the base for contacting ground around a land mine and independently distributing pressures around the ground, wherein the providing a tread comprises providing plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements each element separated from adjacent elements, independently supporting only a portion of a load on the base with some of the elements, while simultaneously supporting remaining portions of the load with other independent elements acting together, wherein the providing the base comprises providing a continuous track and wherein the providing the elements comprises providing the plural independent closed cell foam rubber elements spaced laterally and longitudinally from next adjacent elements. 24. A method of avoiding detonating of pressure operated land mines comprising evenly distributing weight on a tread of a platform moving over a minefield among a plurality of independent soft rubber protuberances in the tread. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising laterally and longitudinally spacing and separating the protuberances. 26. The method of claim 24, further comprising notching a continuous closed cell foam rubber tread for forming and separating the protuberances. 27. A method of avoiding detonating of pressure operated land mines comprising evenly distributing weight on a tread of a platform moving over a minefield among a plurality of independent soft rubber protuberances in the tread, further comprising providing a cylindrical, continuous track, shoe or robotic foot pneumatic base and extending the pneumatic rubber protuberances from the base. 