A method is disclosed for effecting the concentration of a polar analyte in an alternating electric field. In the method, a relative translation of the polar analyte and an alternating electric field along a translation path is effected. A portion of the polar analyte is then trapped and concentrated in a concentration zone formed by the intersection of the translation path and the alternating electric field. Also disclosed are various devices for carrying out the forgoing method.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for the manipulation of a polar analyte, comprising: a translation channel; one or more electrodes located to provide an alternating electric field intersecting the translation channel and sufficient to trap and concentrate a portion of a polar analyte located in a concentration zone formed by the intersection of the translation channel and the alternating electric field; a means for effecting the relative translation of the polar analyte with respect to the alternating electric field along the translation channel; and a supporting medium in said translation channel comprising a polymer solution, wherein said polymer solution comprises an entangled aqueous polymer solution. 2. A device for the manipulation of a polar analyte comprising: (i) an elongate channel including (a) first and second end regions and (b) first and second lateral side regions; (ii) a system for establishing a translational electrical field and a trapping electrical field within said channel, said system including (a) a first set of electrodes, with one electrode of said first set being disposed toward one of said end regions and another electrode of said first set being disposed toward the other of said end regions; (b) a second set of electrodes, with at least one electrode of said second set being disposed along one of said side regions with another electrode of said second set being disposed along the other of said side regions, and at least one electrode of the second set of electrodes does not come into direct physical contact with the elongate channel; (c) a first power supply disposed for electrical communication with said first set of electrodes and a second power supply disposed for electrical communication with said second set of electrodes; and (iii) a computer disposed for communication with said system; said computer being operable, in combination with said system, to establish a translational electrical field lengthwise along at least a portion of said channel and a trapping electrical field transverse to said translational electrical field, with said translational and trapping electrical fields crossing one another at an intersection defining a concentration zone. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the first set of electrodes and the second set of electrodes are capable of being activated at the same time. 