A robot controller executes an operating program, calculates a position and posture of a robot, and sends the position and posture information to a personal computer (PC). At the PC side, on the basis of this position and posture information, animation display information of a work cell including the position and posture of the robot is created and then sent to a teaching pendant. In the teaching pendant, the animation display information is received, and an animation image is displayed on a display section. Until the operating program is terminated, this operation is performed so that an operating animation of the robot is displayed on the display section of the teaching pendant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot information processing system comprising a robot controller having a teaching pendant and an information processing device provided separately from the robot controller, where the robot controller, the teaching pendant, and the information processing device share a bi-directional communication path, wherein the information processing device comprises means for directly or indirectly sending information stored in the information processing device via the bi-directional communication path to the teaching pendant, where the stored information is based on control information received at the information processing device from the teaching pendant via the bi-directional communication path, and the teaching pendant comprises means for displaying the information on a display section of the teaching pendant on the basis of the information. 2. A robot information processing system comprising a robot controller having a teaching pendant and an information processing device provided separately from the robot controller, where the robot controller, the teaching pendant, and the information processing device share a bi-directional communication path, wherein the information processing device comprises means for sending information stored in the information processing device via the robot controller to the teaching pendant, where the robot controller functions as the bi-directional communication path between the teaching pendant and the information processing device, and where the stored information is based on control information received at the information processing device from the teaching pendant via the bi-directional communication path, and the teaching pendant comprises means for displaying the information on a display section of the teaching pendant on the basis of the information. 3. A robot information processing system comprising a robot controller having a teaching pendant and an information processing device provided separately from the robot controller, where the robot controller, the teaching pendant, and the information processing device share a bi-directional communication path, wherein the information processing device generates display information for displaying a robot operation in a form of animation on the basis of operating position information of a robot sent from the robot controller to the information processing device via the bi-directional communication path, and the robot information processing system comprises means for directly or indirectly sending the generated display information from the information processing device via the bi-directional communication path to the teaching pendant, where the display information is based on control information received at the information processing device from the teaching pendant via the bi-directional communication path, and the teaching pendant displays the display information in a form of animation on a display section of the teaching pendant on the basis of the display information. 4. A robot information processing system comprising a robot controller having a teaching pendant and an information processing device provided separately from the robot controller, where the robot controller, the teaching pendant, and the information processing device share a bi-directional communication path, wherein the information processing device generates display information for displaying a robot operation in a form of animation on the basis of operating position information of a robot sent from the robot controller to the information processing device via the bi-directional communication path, and the robot information processing system comprises means for sending the generated display information from the information processing device via the robot controller to the teaching pendant, where the robot controller functions as the bi-directional communication path between the information processing device and the teaching pendant, and where the display information is based on control information received at the information processing device from the teaching pendant via the bi-directional communication path, and, the teaching pendant comprises means for displaying the display information in a form of animation on a display section of the teaching pendant on the basis of the display information. 5. The robot information processing system according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the teaching pendant displays part of the information sent from the information processing device on the display section. 6. The robot information processing system according to claim 5, wherein information sent from the information processing device is directed for simulating a robot operation, and the teaching pendant displays part of the simulation on the display section. 7. The robot information processing system according to claim 6, comprising means for operating a robot simulation performed by the information processing device from the teaching pendant. 8. The robot information processing system according to any one of claims 1 to 4, comprising means for operating information processing performed by the information processing device from the teaching pendant. 9. The robot information processing system according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the teaching pendant comprises means for performing operation for various information for a display stored in the information processing device. 10. The robot information processing system according to claim 9, wherein said means for performing operations for various information for the display displays a guidance for information modifying for a display on a display section of the teaching pendant. 11. The robot information processing system according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the information processing device comprises means for selecting either one or both a first operating mode for sending operating position information from the robot controller to an amplifier of a motor of a robot to cause the robot to operate, and a second operating mode for sending the operating position information from the robot controller to the information processing device to generate display information for displaying a robot operation in a form of animation. 12. The robot information processing system according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the teaching pendant comprises means for selecting either one or both a first operating mode for sending operating position information from the robot controller to an amplifier of a motor of a robot to cause the robot to operate, and a second operating mode for sending the operating position information from the robot controller to the information processing device to generate display information for displaying a robot operation in a form of animation. 13. The robot information processing system according to claim 11, wherein, when the second operating mode is selected, before the robot controller sends a first operating position information to the information processing device, the robot controller sends information representing the state of the robot controller at the present time from storage means of the robot controller to the information processing device to store in storage means of the information processing device, and, after an animation display is terminated in the second operating mode, the information processing device sends back the information to the robot controller, thereby returning back to the state immediately before the robot controller sends a first operating position information. 14. The robot information processing system according to claim 12, wherein, when the second operating mode is selected, before the robot controller sends a first operating position information to the information processing device, the robot controller sends information representing the state of the robot controller at the present time from storage means of the robot controller to the information processing device to store in storage means of the information processing device, and, after an animation display is terminated in the second operating mode, the information processing device sends back the information to the robot controller, thereby returning back to the state immediately before the robot controller sends a first operating position information. 15. The robot information processing system according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the information processing device is stored inside a cabinet of the robot controller. 16. The robot information processing system according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein a plurality of the information processing devices are provided, and the teaching pendant comprises means for selecting one of the plurality of information processing devices. 17. A robot information processing system comprising a robot controller having a teaching pendant and an information processing device provided separately from the robot controller, where the robot controller, the teaching pendant, and the information processing device share a bi-directional communication path, the information processing device sends information stored in the information processing device to the teaching pendant, and where the teaching pendant displays part of the information on a display section of the teaching pendant on the basis of the information. 18. A robot information processing system according to claim 17, wherein the information processing device generates display information for displaying a robot operation in a form of animation on the basis of operating position information of a robot sent from the robot controller to the information processing device, wherein the information sent by the information processing device and displayed by the teaching pendant comprises the display information, and wherein the teaching pendant displays an animation on the display section of the teaching pendant on the basis of the display information. 19. A robot processing system according to claim 17, wherein the information processing device sends the information directly or indirectly to the teaching pendant. 20. A robot processing system according to claim 17, wherein the information processing device sends the information via the robot controller to the teaching pendant. 21. A robot processing system according to claim 17, wherein the information processing device responds to control information sent to it by the teaching pendant via the bidirectional communication path. 22. A robot information processing system according to claim 17, wherein information sent from the information processing device is directed to simulating a robot operation, and the teaching pendant displays part of the simulation on the display section. 23. A robot information processing system according to claim 17, comprising means for operating a robot simulation performed by the information processing device from the teaching pendant. 24. A robot information processing system comprising a robot controller having a teaching pendant and an information processing device provided separately from the robot controller, where the information processing device sends information stored in the information processing device to the teaching pendant via a bi-directional communication path shared by the robot controller, the teaching pendant, and the information processing device, where the teaching pendant displays part of the information on a display section of the teaching pendant on the basis of the information, where the teaching pendant operates upon various information for a display stored in the information processing device, and where the operating upon the various information for the display comprises displaying a guidance for information modifying for a display on the display section of the teaching pendant. 25. A robot information processing system according to claim 24, wherein the information processing device generates display information for displaying a robot operation in a form of animation on the basis of operating position information of a robot sent from the robot controller to the information processing device, wherein the information sent by the information processing device and displayed by the teaching pendant comprises the display information, and wherein the teaching pendant displays an animation on the display section of the teaching pendant on the basis of the display information. 26. A robot processing system according to claim 24, wherein the information processing device sends the information directly or indirectly to the teaching pendant. 27. A robot processing system according to claim 24, wherein the information processing device sends the information via the robot controller to the teaching pendant. 28. A robot processing system according to claim 24, wherein the information processing device and the teaching pendant share a bidirectional communication path, and wherein the information processing device responds to control information sent to it by the teaching pendant via the bidirectional communication path. 29. A robot information processing system according to claim 24, wherein information sent from the information processing device is directed to simulating a robot operation, and the teaching pendant displays part of the simulation on the display section. 30. A robot information processing system according to claim 24, comprising means for operating a robot simulation performed by the information processing device from the teaching pendant. 31. A robot information processing system comprising a robot controller having a teaching pendant and an information processing device provided separately from the robot controller, where the robot controller, the teaching pendant, and the information processing device share a bi-directional communication path, where the information processing device sends information stored in the information processing device via the bi-directional communication path to the teaching pendant, where the stored information is based on control information received at the information processing device from the teaching pendant via the bi-directional communication path, and where the teaching pendant displays the information on a display section of the teaching pendant on the basis of the information. 32. A method of controlling a robot information processing system comprising a robot controller having a teaching pendant and an information processing device provided separately from the robot controller, the method comprising: operating the robot controller or a program executing therein by sending operation information from the teaching pendant to the robot controller via a bi-directional communication path; responsive to the operating of the robot controller by the teaching pendant, sending output from the robot controller to the information processing device via the bi-directional communication path; and at the information processing device, generating animation information based on the output of the robot controller and sending the animation information from the information processing device to the teaching pendant via the bi-directional communication path. 33. A machine-readable storage storing information for enabling the information processing device to perform respective procedures of the method of claim 32. 34. A machine-readable storage storing information for enabling the robot controller to perform respective procedures of the method of claim 32. 35. A machine-readable storage storing information for enabling the teaching pendant to perform respective procedures of the method of claim 32. 36. A machine-readable storage storing information for enabling the robot information system to perform the method of claim 32. 37. A method according to claim 32, further comprising: from the teaching pendant, sending to the information processing device, via the bi-directional communication path, information to control the generating of the animation information. 