A tray for use in order-picking system is presented. The tray includes a base part on which order-picking articles (for example retail articles) can be stored, a frame which is attached to the base parts, and a sliding part for displacing the order-picking articles in the direction of a removal position of the order-picking articles. It is thus possible to perform the picking operation of one of the articles in an economically-favorable posture irrespective of how full or empty the trays.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tray for use in order-picking system, the tray comprising: a base part on which order-picking articles can be stored, a frame which is attached to the base part, and a sliding means for displacing the order-picking articles in the direction of a removal position for the said order-picking articles, wherein the sliding means has a slide which is guided in the frame by means of at least one groove. 2. The tray according to claim 1 further comprising a trough-shaped section in the base part, wherein the trough-shaped section is lowered in relation to the frame in such a way that, if two trays are stacked one above the other, the base part of the upper tray is enclosed by the frame of the lower tray. 3. The tray according to claim 1, wherein the base part is constructed in one piece with the frame. 4. The tray according to claim 3, wherein the slide of the sliding means does not protrude upwards above the base part. 5. The tray according to claim 1, wherein the size of the storage surface on which the articles can be stored is equal to the size of the storage surface of pallets and/or small-load-carriers used in the order-picking system. 6. The tray according to claim 1, wherein the base part has an elevation or depression, by means of which the tray can be transported with the aid of a load-lifting member of a rack vehicle or stacker vehicle. 7. The tray according to claim 1, having a tension spring which pretensions the sliding means in relation to the frame in the direction of the removal position. 8. The tray according to claim 7, the tray having a holding element for positioning the pretensioned sliding means. 9. A tray for use in order-picking system, the tray comprising: a base part on which order-picking articles can be stored, a frame which is attached to the base part, and a sliding means for displacing the order-picking articles in the direction of a removal position for the order-picking articles wherein the sliding means has a slide which is guided in the base cart by means of at least one groove; wherein the frame and/or the base part has a clearance through which there engages a handle, which is connected to the sliding means, for moving the slide. 10. The tray according to claim 9 further comprising a trough-shaped section in the base part, wherein the trough-shaped section is lowered in relation to the frame in such a way that, if two trays are stacked one above the other, the base part of the upper tray is enclosed by the frame of the lower tray. 11. The according to claim 9, wherein the base part is constructed in one piece with the frame. 12. The tray according to claim 11, wherein the slide of the sliding means does not protrude upwards above the base part. 13. The tray according claim 9, wherein the size of the storage surface on which the articles can be stored is equal to the size of the storage surface of the pallets and/or small-load-carriers used in the order-picking system. 14. The tray according to claim 9, wherein the base part has an elevation or depression, by means of which the tray can be transported with the aid of a load-lifting member of a rack vehicle or stacker vehicle. 15. The tray according to claim 9 further comprising a holding element for holding and positioning the sliding means. 