According to some embodiments, a registry is displayed. The registry may, for example, indicate resources available from a plurality of remote network access devices via a communications network. Moreover, a personal network address may be associated with each available resource, the personal network address including an destination address portion and an application program identifier portion. A direct communications link may then be established between a first network access device hosting an available resource and a second network address device using the personal network address associated with the resource.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method, comprising: displaying to a user at a first user network access device a registry of resources available from a plurality of remote user network access devices via a communications network; associating at the first user network access device a personal network address with each available resource, wherein the personal network address includes a destination address portion and an application program identifier portion; and establishing a direct communications link between a second user network access device hosting an available resource and the first user network access device using the personal network address associated with the resource. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the destination address portion comprises an Internet Protocol address and the application program identifier portion comprises a port number. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the resource is an interface application associated with at least one of a human and an automated process. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the resource is a service application. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the service application provides access to at least one of: (i) a database system, (ii) a spread sheet, and (iii) a search engine. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the service application provides an access control function. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the resource comprises a common depository of messages from a plurality of agents. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the resource enables communication between agents at remote network access devices. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the communication includes at least one of: (i) text information, (ii) audio information, (iii) image information, and (iv) executable information. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of the agents comprises a user. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of the agents comprises an automated process. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the automated process uses artificial intelligence techniques to simulate a human operator. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein a secure communication history is maintained. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the secure communication history is associated with at least one of; (i) encrypted communication, (ii) signed communication, and (iii) a time stamp. 15. The method of claim 8, wherein a modifiable communication history is maintained. 16. A medium storing instructions adapted to be executed by a processor to perform a method, said method comprising: displaying to a user at a first user network access device a registry of resources available from a plurality of remote user network access devices via a communications network; associating at the first user network access device a personal network address with each available resource, wherein the personal network address includes a destination address portion and an application program identifier portion; and establishing a direct communications link between a second user network access device hosting an available resource and the first user network access device using the personal network address associated with the resource. 17. The medium of claim 16, wherein the destination address portion comprises an Internet Protocol address and the application program identifier portion comprises a port number. 18. The medium of claim 16, wherein the resource is an interface application associated with at least one of a human and an automated process. 19. A method of accessing resources available from a plurality of remote user network access devices via a communications network, comprising: retrieving at a first user network access device registry information from another remote user network access device that hosts an active registry, the registry information including a personal network address for each of a plurality of available resources, wherein each personal network address includes a destination address portion and an application program identifier portion; displaying to a user at the first user network access device a registry of available resources; receiving from the user an indication of a selected resource; and establishing a direct communications link between a second user network access device associated with the selected resource and the first user network access device using the personal network address associated with the selected resource. 20. A method, comprising: forming at a first user network access device a registry of resources available in a network of remote user network access devices; associating at the first user network access device personal network addresses for resources in the registry; receiving at the first user network access device a request from a second user network access device; and transmitting from the first user network access device to the second user network access device a set of personal network addresses associated with available resources, wherein each personal network address includes a destination address portion and an application program identifier portion. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising: determining that the registry at the first user network access device is an active registry. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: arranging for another registry at another user network access device to become the active registry. 