A holding plate includes a flat base member with a surface that is formed with a plurality of stations (wells or depressions) for holding specimens. A panel extends downwardly from the edge of the surface to create a concavity for receiving a lid member therein. The panel also has a flange extending outwardly from the concavity. The flat lid member has a skirt with a rim that extends from the edge of the lid member to create a hollow for receiving a base member therein. In operation, a robot or mechanical device selectively engages the flange of the base member and the rim of the lid member to engage or disengage the base and lid members. This allows for individual movement of either the base member or the lid member. This also allows for collective movement of the engaged base and lid members for stacking and storage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A holding plate for use in a stacking system which comprises: a substantially flat base member having a first surface and a second surface with a peripheral edge therebetween, wherein said first surface is substantially flat and is formed with a plurality of stations for holding specimens on said plate, and further wherein said peripheral edge is formed with a recess; a panel extending from said peripheral edge of said base member substantially perpendicular to said second surface thereof to border said second surface and create a concavity therewith, wherein said panel is formed with a flange extending outwardly from said concavity and substantially parallel to said second surface of said base member for selective use by said system in supporting said base member; a substantially flat lid member having a first surface and a second surface with an edge therebetween; and a skirt extending from said edge of said lid member substantially perpendicular to said second surface thereof to surround said second surface and create a hollow therewith, wherein said skirt is formed with an indentation for mating engagement with said recess of said base member when said second surface of said lid member is positioned over said first surface of said base member to cover said plurality of wells, and further wherein said skirt is formed with a rim having a lip extending outwardly from said rim for selective use by said system in supporting said lid member. 2. A holding plate as recited in claim 1 wherein said stations are wells. 3. A holding plate as recited in claim 1 wherein said stations are wells with each said well having a fluid volume greater than approximately five microliters. 4. A holding plate as recited in claim 1 wherein said system is a robot. 5. A holding plate as recited in claim 1 wherein said system is an automated plate stacking machine. 6. A holding plate as recited in claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of said base members; and a plurality of said lid members wherein said lid members are engaged with said base members to form respective said integrated holding plates, and further wherein one said integrated holding plate is stacked on another said integrated holding plate. 7. A holding plate as recited in claim 1 further comprising a means for establishing a vapor barrier between said base member and said lid member during a mating engagement therebetween, when said base member and said lid member are engaged to form an integrated holding plate. 8. A holding plate as recited in claim 1 wherein said base member and said lid member are substantially rectangular with respective first and second parallel ends, with said ends being distanced from each other by respective first and second parallel sides. 9. A holding plate as recited in claim 8 wherein one said recess is formed at said first end of said base member and another said recess is formed at said second end of said base member, and further wherein one said indentation is formed at said first end of said lid member and another said indentation is formed at said second end of said lid member to conform said indentations of said lid member with respective recesses of said base member. 10. A holding plate as recited in claim 1 wherein said base member is insertable into said hollow of said lid member, and wherein said lid member is insertable into said concavity of said base member. 11. A holding plate as recited in claim 10 wherein said lid member further comprises: a plurality of interior ribs formed on said second surface of said lid member to distance said second surface thereof from said first surface of one said base member when said base member is received into said hollow of said lid member to cover said plurality of stations; and a plurality of exterior ribs formed on said first surface of said lid member to distance said first surface thereof from said second surface of one said base member when said lid member is received in said concavity of said base member. 12. A holding plate as recited in claim 10 wherein said base member further comprises: a plurality of interior ribs formed on said second surface of said base member to distance said second surface thereof from said first surface of one said lid member when said lid member is received into said concavity of said base member; and a plurality of exterior ribs formed on said first surface of said base member to distance said first surface thereof from said second surface of one said lid member when said base member is received in said hollow of said lid member to cover said plurality of stations. 