The present invention discloses a system and method for confining a robot to a particular space. The system includes a portable barrier signal transmitter that produces a barrier signal primarily along an axis, and a mobile robot capable of avoiding the barrier signal upon detection of the barrier signal. In the preferred embodiment the barrier signal is emitted in an infrared frequency and the robot includes an omni-directional signal detector. Upon detection of the signal, the robot turns in a direction selected by a barrier avoidance algorithm until the barrier signal is no longer detected.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A confinement system for a mobile robot having propulsion elements for moving the robot, the confinement system comprising: a signal emitter operable to transmit a first beam and a second beam; a retro-reflector positionable to reflect at least a portion of the first beam back to the emitter; a first signal detector operable to detect the reflected portion of the first beam, the reflected portion of the first beam between the emitter and the retro-reflector defining a confinement barrier; the emitter being operable to transmit the second beam when the first signal detector fails to detect the reflected portion of the first beam; a second signal detector, adapted for mounting in association with the robot, and operable to detect the second beam; and a controller, operable to control the robot's propulsion elements and responsive to detection of the second beam to control the propulsion elements to move the robot to avoid the second beam; wherein if operation of the robot causes the reflected portion of the first beam to be blocked such that the first signal detector fails to detect the reflected portion of the first beam, then the emitter is operable to transmit the second beam which, if detected by the second signal detector, causes the controller to control the propulsion elements to move the mobile robot to avoid the second beam. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the controller controls the propulsion elements to turn the robot in a selected direction until the second beam is no longer detected by the second signal detector. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the controller controls the propulsion elements to move the robot in a direction opposite to the most recently traveled direction until the second beam is no longer detected by the second signal detector. 4. A method for confining a mobile robot to a prescribed zone, the robot having propulsion elements for moving the robot, the method comprising: providing a signal emitter operable to transmit a first beam and a second beam; providing a retro-reflector positionable to reflect at least a portion of the first beam back to the emitter; providing a first signal detector operable to detect the reflected portion of the first beam, the reflected portion of the first beam between the emitter and the retro-reflector defining a confinement barrier; the emitter being operable to transmit the second beam when the first signal detector fails to detect the reflected portion of the first beam; providing a second signal detector, adapted for mounting in association with the robot, and operable to detect the second beam; and providing a controller, operable to control the robot's propulsion elements and responsive to detection of the second beam to control the propulsion elements to move the robot to avoid the second beam; wherein if operation of the robot causes the reflected portion of the first beam to be blocked such that the first signal detector fails to detect the reflected portion of the first beam, then the emitter is operable to transmit the second beam which, if detected by the second signal detector, causes the controller to control the propulsion elements to move the mobile robot to avoid the second beam. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the controller controls the propulsion elements to turn the robot in a selected direction until the second beam is no longer detected by the second signal detector. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the controller controls the propulsion elements to move the robot in a direction opposite to the most recently traveled direction until the second beam is no longer detected by the second signal detector. 