Disclosed is a method, system, and program for using storage slots efficiently. A move command is received to move a portable data storage medium from a source address to a destination address. An empty storage slot that has no association with the destination address is located. The portable data storage medium is moved from the source address to the located empty storage slot. An association is stored between the located empty storage slot and the destination address.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for using storage slots, comprising: receiving a move command to move a portable data storage medium from a source data transfer element address to a destination storage element address; locating an empty storage slot that has no association with the destination storage element address; moving the portable data storage medium from the source data transfer element address to the located empty storage slot; and storing an association between the located empty storage slot and the destination storage element address. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein locating locates a closest empty storage slot. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein storing the association further comprises: updating one or more tables. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: assigning a storage element count to each one of multiple logical libraries, wherein the sum of the storage element count for each one of the multiple logical libraries exceeds the total number of storage slots in the library, wherein the library is partitioned into the multiple logical libraries. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the storage element count for one or more of the multiple logical libraries is equal to a total number of storage slots in a library. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: allowing one or more of the multiple logical libraries to be associated with any storage slot in a library. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: assigning a storage slot count greater than a total number of storage slots in a library to one or more logical libraries, wherein the library is partitioned into the one or more logical libraries; adding new storage slots to the library; and allowing one or more of the logical libraries to be associated with the newly added storage slots. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the storage slot count equals a maximum number of storage slots that may subsequently be in the library. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: adding a new frame to the library that includes the new storage slots. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the new storage slots comprise storage slots whose status is changed from a status of not being eligible to be associated with one or more of the logical libraries to being eligible to be associated with one or more of the logical libraries. 11. An article of manufacture for using storage slots, wherein the article of manufacture is capable of causing operations to be performed, the operations comprising: receiving a move command to move a portable data storage medium from the source data transfer element address to a destination storage element address; locating an empty storage slot that has no association with the destination storage element address; moving the portable data storage medium from the source data transfer element address to the located empty storage slot; and storing an association between the located empty storage slot and the destination storage element address. 12. The article of manufacture of claim 11, wherein operations for locating further comprise operations for locating a closest empty storage slot. 13. The article of manufacture of claim 11, wherein the operations for storing the association further comprise: updating one or more tables. 14. The article of manufacture of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: assigning a storage element count to each one of multiple logical libraries, wherein the sum of the storage element count for each one of the multiple logical libraries exceeds the total number of storage slots in the library, wherein the library is partitioned into the multiple logical libraries. 15. The article of manufacture of claim 14, wherein the storage element count for one or more of the multiple logical libraries is equal to a total number of storage slots in a library. 16. The article of manufacture of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: allowing one or more of the multiple logical libraries to be associated with any storage slot in a library. 17. The article of manufacture of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: assigning a storage slot count greater than a total number of storage slots in a library to one or more logical libraries, wherein the library is partitioned into the one or more logical libraries; adding new storage slots to the library; and allowing one or more of the logical libraries to be associated with the newly added storage slots. 18. The article of manufacture of claim 17, wherein the storage slot count equals a maximum number of storage slots that may subsequently be in the library. 19. The article of manufacture of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: adding a new frame to the library that includes the new storage slots. 20. The article of manufacture of claim 17, wherein the new storage slots comprise storage slots whose status is changed from a status of not being eligible to be associated with one or more of the logical libraries to being eligible to be associated with one or more of the logical libraries. 21. A library, comprising: means for receiving a move command to move a portable data storage medium from a source data transfer element address to a destination storage element address; means for locating an empty storage slot that has no association with the destination storage element address; means for moving the portable data storage medium From the source data transfer element address to the located empty storage slot; and means for storing an association between the located empty storage slot and the destination storage element address. 22. The library of claim 21, wherein means for locating comprises means for locating a closest empty storage slot. 23. The library of claim 21, wherein storing the association further comprises: means for updating one or more tables. 24. The library of claim 21, further comprising: means for assigning a storage element count to each one of multiple logical libraries, wherein the sum of the storage element count for each one of the multiple logical libraries exceeds the total number of storage slots in the library, wherein the library is partitioned into the multiple logical libraries. 25. The library of claim 24, wherein the storage element count for one or more of the multiple logical libraries is equal to a total number of storage slots in a library. 26. The library of claim 24, further comprising: means for allowing one or more of the multiple logical libraries to be associated with any storage slot in a library. 27. The library of claim 21, further comprising: means for assigning a storage slot count greater than a total number of storage slots in a library to one or more logical libraries, wherein the library is partitioned into the one or more logical libraries; means for adding new storage slots to the library; and means for allowing one or more of the logical libraries to be associated with the newly added storage slots. 28. The library of claim 27, wherein the storage slot count equals a maximum number of storage slots that may subsequently be in the library. 29. The library of claim 27, further comprising: means for adding a new frame to the library that includes the new storage slots. 30. The library of claim 27, wherein the new storage slots comprise storage slots whose status is changed from a status of not being eligible to be associated with one or more of the logical libraries to being eligible to be associated with one or more of the logical libraries. 