A digital camera system includes a digital image sensor, a memory coupled to the digital image sensor via a data bus, a microcontroller having control signal output ports and a data I/O port, and a bi-directional tri-state buffer coupled to the data I/O port and the data bus for passing data therebetween. At least one of the control signal output ports is coupled to each of the digital image sensor, memory and tri-state buffer. The microcontroller issues control signals over it's control signal output ports to control access to the data bus by establishing only one of a plurality of possible data transfer paths at any given point in time.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A digital camera system, comprising: a host controller; a digital image sensor for sensing a digital image defined by pixels of data; a memory coupled to said digital image sensor via a data bus; a microcontroller having an RS-232 serial input/output (I/O) port coupled to said host controller, said microcontroller further having control signal output ports and a data I/O port; a bi-directional tri-state buffer coupled to said data I/O port and said data bus for passing data therebetween; at least one of said control signal output ports coupled to each of said digital image sensor, said memory and said tri-state buffer; said microcontroller receiving control signals from said host controller and issuing said control signals over said control signal output ports to control access to said data bus wherein only one of a plurality of data transfer paths is established, said plurality of data transfer paths including a first data transfer path from said microcontroller through said tri-state buffer to said digital image sensor, a second data transfer path from said digital image sensor to said memory, and a third data transfer path from said memory through said buffer to said host controller via said RS-232 serial I/O port of said microcontroller, wherein said memory is disabled by said microcontroller when said one of said plurality of data transfer paths is said first data transfer path. 2. A digital camera system as in claim 1 wherein said memory is a first-in, first-out (FIFO) memory. 3. A digital camera system as in claim 2 wherein said FIFO memory has a READ clock input and a WRITE clock input, said READ clock input controlling transfer of data from said FIFO memory and said WRITE clock input controlling transfer of data into said FIFO memory. 4. A digital camera system as in claim 3 wherein said digital image sensor includes a pixel clock for generating a pixel clock signal associated with each of said pixels of data in said digital image, said pixel clock being coupled to said WRITE clock input of said FIFO memory. 5. A digital camera system as in claim 1 wherein said digital image sensor is disabled by said microcontroller when said one of said plurality of data transfer paths is said third data transfer path. 6. A digital camera system, comprising: a digital image sensor for sensing a digital image defined by pixels of data; a memory coupled to said digital image sensor via a data bus; a microcontroller having an RS-232 serial input/output (I/O) port, control signal output ports and a data I/O port; a bi-directional tri-state buffer coupled to said data I/O port and said data bus for passing data therebetween; at least one of said control signal output ports coupled to each of said digital image sensor, said memory and said tri-state buffer; said microcontroller receiving control signals over said RS-232 serial I/O port and issuing said control signals over said control signal output ports to control access to said data bus wherein only one of a plurality of data transfer paths is established, said plurality of data transfer paths including a first data transfer path from said microcontroller through said tri-state buffer to said digital image sensor, a second data transfer path from said digital image sensor to said memory, and a third data transfer path from said memory through said buffer to said RS-232 serial I/O port of said microcontroller, wherein said memory is disabled by said microcontroller when said one of said plurality of data transfer paths is said first data transfer path. 7. A digital camera system as in claim 6 wherein said memory is a first-in, first-out (FIFO) memory. 8. A digital camera system as in claim 7 wherein said FIFO memory has a READ clock input and a WRITE clock input, said READ clock input controlling transfer of data from said FIFO memory and said WRITE clock input controlling transfer of data into said FIFO memory. 9. A digital camera system as in claim 8 wherein said digital image sensor includes a pixel clock for generating a pixel clock signal associated with each of said pixels of data in said digital image, said pixel clock being coupled to said WRITE clock input of said FIFO memory. 10. A digital camera system as in claim 6 wherein said digital image sensor is disabled by said microcontroller when said one of said plurality of data transfer paths is said third data transfer path. 11. A digital camera system, comprising: a digital image sensor for sensing a digital image defined by pixels of data; a memory coupled to said digital image sensor via a data bus; a microcontroller having control signal output ports and a data I/O port; bi-directional tri-state buffer coupled to said data I/O port and said data bus for passing data therebetween; at least one of said control signal output ports coupled to each of said digital image sensor, said memory and said tri-state buffer; said microcontroller issuing control signals over said control signal output ports to control access to said data bus wherein only one of a plurality of data transfer paths is established, said plurality of data transfer paths including a first data transfer path from said microcontroller through said tri-state buffer to said digital image sensor, a second data transfer path from said digital image sensor to said memory, and a third data transfer path from said memory through said buffer to said microcontroller, wherein said memory is disabled by said microcontroller when said one of said plurality of data transfer paths is said first data transfer path. 12. A digital camera system as in claim 11 wherein said memory is a first-in, first-out (FIFO) memory. 13. A digital camera system as in claim 12 wherein said FIFO memory has a READ clock input and a WRITE clock input, said READ clock input controlling transfer of data from said FIFO memory and said WRITE clock input controlling transfer of data into said FIFO memory. 14. A digital camera system as in claim 13 wherein said digital image sensor includes a pixel clock for generating a pixel clock signal associated with each of said pixels of data in said digital image, said pixel clock being coupled to said WRITE clock input of said FIFO memory. 15. A digital camera system as in claim 11 wherein said digital image sensor is disabled by said microcontroller when said one of said plurality of data transfer paths is said third data transfer path. 