A method is provided for performing array microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: forming an array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a drop comprising a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and a molecule to be crystallized, the drop having a volume of less than 1 microliter; storing the array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the drops in the array; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the drops by taking images of the drops.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing crystallization experiments for a molecule, the method comprising: conducting greater than 48 different crystallization experiments for a molecule where the different crystallization experiments are housed in a single crystallization experiment device and the crystallization volume of each crystallization experiment is less than 1 microliter. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the crystallization volume of each crystallization experiment is less than 750 nanoliters. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the crystallization volume of each crystallization experiment is less than 500 nanoliters. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the crystallization volume of each crystallization experiment is less than 250 nanoliters. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the crystallization volumes are within a volume range of less than about 25 nanoliters. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the crystallization volumes are within a volume range of less than about 20 nanoliters. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein the crystallization volumes are within a volume range of less than about 15 nanoliters. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein the molecule being crystallized is a macromolecule. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein the molecule being crystallized is a protein. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein the molecule being crystallized has a molecular weight of at least 500 daltons. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein the crystallization volumes comprise a molecule to be crystallized and a composition that varies among the plurality of crystallization experiments. 12. A method according to claim 1, wherein greater than 96 different crystallization experiments are conducted in a single crystallization experiment device. 13. A method according to claim 1, wherein greater than 144 different crystallization experiments are conducted in a single crystallization experiment device. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein greater than 192 different crystallization experiments are conducted in a single crystallization experiment device. 15. A method for performing crystallization experiments for a molecule, the method comprising: conducting greater than 48 different sitting drop crystallization experiments for a molecule where the different crystallization experiments are housed in a single crystallization experiment device and the crystallization volume of each crystallization experiment is less than 1 microliter. 16. A method according to claim 15, wherein the crystallization volume of each crystallization experiment is less than 750 nanoliters. 17. A method according to claim 15, wherein the crystallization volume of each crystallization experiment is less than 500 nanoliters. 18. A method according to claim 15, wherein the crystallization volume of each crystallization experiment is less than 250 nanoliters. 19. A method according to claim 15, wherein the crystallization volumes are within a volume range of less than about 25 nanoliters. 20. A method according to claim 15, wherein the crystallization volumes are within a volume range of less than about 20 nanoliters. 21. A method according to claim 15, wherein the crystallization volumes are within a volume range of less than about 15 nanoliters. 22. A method according to claim 15, wherein the molecule being crystallized is a macromolecule. 23. A method according to claim 15, wherein the molecule being crystallized is a protein. 24. A method according to claim 15, wherein the molecule being crystallized has a molecular weight of at least 500 daltons. 25. A method according to claim 15, wherein the crystallization volumes comprise a molecule to be crystallized and a composition that varies among the plurality of crystallization experiments. 26. A method according to claim 15, wherein greater than 96 different sitting drop crystallization experiments are conducted in a single crystallization experiment device. 27. A method according to claim 15, wherein greater than 144 different sitting drop crystallization experiments are conducted in a single crystallization experiment device. 28. A method according to claim 15, wherein greater than 192 different sitting drop crystallization experiments are conducted in a single crystallization experiment device. 29. A method for performing crystallization experiments for a molecule, the method comprising: conducting greater than 48 different hanging drop crystallization experiments for a molecule where the different crystallization experiments are housed in a single crystallization experiment device and the crystallization volume of each crystallization experiment is less than 1 microliter. 30. A method according to claim 29, wherein the crystallization volume of each crystallization experiment is less than 750 nanoliters. 31. A method according to claim 29, wherein the crystallization volume of each crystallization experiment is less than 500 nanoliters. 32. A method according to claim 29, wherein the crystallization volume of each crystallization experiment is less than 250 nanoliters. 33. A method according to claim 29, wherein the crystallization volumes are within a volume range of less than about 25 nanoliters. 34. A method according to claim 29, wherein the crystallization volumes are within a volume range of less than about 20 nanoliters. 35. A method according to claim 29, wherein the crystallization volumes are within a volume range of less than about 15 nanoliters. 36. A method according to claim 29, wherein the molecule being crystallized is a macromolecule. 37. A method according to claim 29, wherein the molecule being crystallized is a protein. 38. A method according to claim 29, wherein the molecule being crystallized has a molecular weight of at least 500 daltons. 39. A method according to claim 29, wherein the crystallization volumes comprise a molecule to be crystallized and a composition that varies among the plurality of crystallization experiments. 40. A method according to claim 29, wherein greater than 96 different hanging drop crystallization experiments are conducted in a single crystallization experiment device. 41. A method according to claim 29, wherein greater than 144 different hanging drop crystallization experiments are conducted in a single crystallization experiment device. 42. A method according to claim 29, wherein greater than 192 different hanging drop crystallization experiments are conducted in a single crystallization experiment device. 