A gas-cooled turbine generator includes a rotor having baffles arranged in rings and defining a plurality of gas cooling zones. A stator core has stator slots in a bore in which the rotor is received. A plurality of air gap baffle assemblies are arranged in segmented baffle rings in the stator slots and cooperate with the zone rings on the rotor. Each of the air gap baffle assemblies includes at least one baffle segment and an individual locking cam cooperating with a respective wedge of the baffle segment to lock the baffle segment relative to a stator slot at which the baffle segment is positioned such that prior baffle "trains" are no longer required.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A gas-cooled turbine generator comprising: a rotor having baffles arranged in rings and defining a plurality of gas zones; a stator core having stator slots and a bore in which said rotor is received, and a plurality of air gap baffle assemblies arranged in segmented baffle rings within said stator slots and cooperating with said baffles on said rotor, each of the air gap baffle assemblies comprising at least one baffle segment and an individual locking cam cooperating with a respective baffle segment and unconnected to other locking cams of the baffle segments in the respective segmented baffle ring and locking the baffle segment relative to a stator slot at which the baffle segment is positioned without locking other locking cams of the baffle segments in the respective segmented baffle ring. 2. A gas-cooled turbine generator according to claim 1, wherein said baffle segment comprises a wedge formed to receive said individual locking cam such that upon twisting of said locking cam, said wedge is deformed for locking said baffle segment relative to said stator slot. 3. A gas-cooled turbine generator according to claim 2, wherein each individual locking cam comprises a tubular stub member having an external locking cam surface for engaging said wedge such that upon rotation of said locking cam, said external locking cam surface deforms the wedge. 4. A gas-cooled turbine generator according to claim 2, wherein each baffle assembly further comprises a locking plate received within a stator slot and cooperating with said wedge. 5. A gas-cooled turbine generator according to claim 4, wherein said locking plate includes an external lock for locking said plate relative to a slot to prevent movement of said baffle assemblies. 6. A gas-cooled turbine generator according to claim 2 wherein said wedge comprises leg members forming a bore that receives said locking cam. 7. A gas-cooled turbine generator according to claim 1, wherein each individual locking cam comprises an end portion adapted for engaging a locking tool carried by a self-propelled vehicle that is insertable and movable within an air gap formed between said stator and rotor. 8. A gas-cooled turbine generator according to claim 1, wherein each baffle segment comprises a transverse member having an arcuate surface that cooperates and defines a gap with baffles on said rotor. 9. A gas-cooled turbine generator according to claim 8, wherein each baffle assembly comprises two baffle segments positioned adjacent to each other, and said transverse members are dimensioned to interlock transverse members of adjacent baffle assemblies forming the segmented baffle ring. 10. A dynamoelectric machine comprising: a substantially airtight casing adapted to be filled with a cooling gas; a stator core disposed within the casing and including a cylindrical bore and longitudinal stator slots formed therein; a rotor positioned for rotation within said cylindrical bore and forming an air gap between said rotor and stator core; a plurality of baffles positioned on said rotor in a ring within said air gap and defining a plurality of gas zones for cooling; and a plurality of air gap baffle assemblies arranged in segmented baffle rings within said stator slots and cooperating with said baffles on said rotor, each of the air gap baffle assemblies comprising at least one baffle segment and an individual locking cam cooperating with a respective baffle segment and unconnected to other locking cams of the baffle segments in the respective segmented baffle ring and locking the baffle segment relative to a stator slot at which the baffle segment is positioned without locking other locking cams of the baffle segments in the respective segmented baffle ring. 11. A dynamoelectric machine according to claim 10, wherein said baffle segment comprises a wedge formed to receive said individual locking cam such that upon twisting of said locking cam, said wedge is deformed for locking said baffle segment relative to said stator slot. 12. A dynamoelectric machine according to claim 11, wherein said individual locking cam comprises a tubular stub member having an external locking cam surface for engaging said wedge such that upon rotation of said locking cam, said external locking cam surface deforms the wedge. 13. A dynamoelectric machine according to claim 11, wherein each baffle assembly further comprises a locking plate received within a stator slot and cooperating with said wedge. 14. A dynamoelectric machine according to claim 13, wherein a locking plate includes an external lock for locking said plate relative to a slot. 15. A dynamoelectric machine according to claim 11, wherein said wedge comprises leg members forming a bore that receives said locking cam. 16. A dynamoelectric machine according to claim 10, wherein each individual locking cam comprises an end portion adapted for engaging a locking tool carried by a self-propelled vehicle that is insertable and movable within the air gap formed between said stator and rotor. 17. A dynamoelectric machine according to claim 10, wherein each baffle segment comprises a transverse member having an arcuate surface that cooperates and defines a gap with baffles on said rotor. 18. A dynamoelectric machine according to claim 17, wherein each baffle assembly comprises two baffle segments positioned adjacent to each other, and said transverse members are dimensioned to interlock transverse members of adjacent baffle assemblies forming the segmented baffle ring. 