A steerable endoscope has an elongated body with a selectively steerable distal portion and an automatically controlled proximal portion. The endoscope body is inserted into a patient and the selectively steerable distal portion is used to select a desired path within the patient's body. When the endoscope body is advanced, an electronic motion controller operates the automatically controlled proximal portion to assume the selected curve of the selectively steerable distal portion. Another desired path is selected with the selectively steerable distal portion and the endoscope body is advanced again. As the endoscope body is further advanced, the selected curves propagate proximally along the endoscope body, and when the endoscope body is withdrawn proximally, the selected curves propagate distally along the endoscope body. This creates a serpentine motion in the endoscope body that allows it to negotiate tortuous curves along a desired path through, around, and between organs within the body.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for insertion into a body cavity, comprising: an elongate body having a proximal portion and a selectively steerable distal portion, the elongate body comprising a plurality of segments, wherein the selectively steerable distal portion is adapted to assume a selected curve along an arbitrary path, and wherein the proximal portion is adapted to linearly assume the selected curve along the elongate body in an infinitely variable motion by propagating a measured length of at least one side of the distal portion to at least one side of the proximal portion. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the proximal portion is adapted to assume the selected curve while the elongate body is advanced distally. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the selectively steerable distal portion is adapted to propagate the selected curve distally while the elongate body is withdrawn proximally. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of linear actuators attached to at least a majority of the segments for controlling the measured length. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a steering controller in commuication with the selectively steerable distal portion for controlling the distal portion to assume the selected curve. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a motion controller in communication with the proximal portion for controlling measurements of the segments. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an axial motion transducer adapted to measure an axial position of the elongate body. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the axial motion transducer is attached to a fixed point of reference relative to the elongate body. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the axial motion transducer comprises a first roller and a second roller for contacting an exterior surface of the elongate body. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a motor coupled to at least the first roller for providing a force for advancing or withdrawing the elongate body. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a motor coupled to at least the first roller for providing a force for assisting or resisting movement of the elongate body. 12. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the axial motion transducer is rotatingly connected to a measument apparatus for measuring the axial position. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the measurement apparatus comprises a potentiometer. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an elongated housing having a base and a linear track upon which the elongate body is advanced or withdrawn. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 futher comprising a selectively rotatable drum, the elongate body being positionable about a circumference of the drum. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising a measurement apparatus connected to a pivot axis of the rotatable drum adapted to convert a rotational movement of the drum into a longitudinal translation of the elongate body. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the measurement apparatus comprises a potentiometer. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the elongate body is an endoscope insertable into a body of a patient. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the elongate body is a colonoscope insertable into a colon of a patient. 20. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the distal portion comprises a non-segmented steerable portion. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of segments are pivotally interconnected between adjacent segments. 22. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the distal portion comprises at least one segment. 23. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the elongate body defines at least one lumen therethrough. 