The invention relates to a method for determining the effect of magnetic stimulation on human brain. According to the method, the stimulation dose is determined in different parts of the brain by summing cumulatively the electric field strength generated by the individual stimulus pulses. According to the invention, the position and alignment of a magnetic stimulation coil (1) is determined separately for each applied stimulus pulse in three dimensions relative to the head (5), the number, repetition rate and intensity generated by the magnetic stimulation coil (1) are measured separately for each pulse, the coordinate data of the brain are determined substantially unambiguously in the same coordinate system with the magnetic stimulation coil (1) on the basis of information obtained from other kind of measurement, such as a tomographic scan or, e.g., a statistic database collected from a large number of patients, and the cumulative dose of electromagnetic radiation imposed on said desired point in the brain is determined on the basis of the location data available from the brain and the measurement data computed for the cumulative effect of the electromagnetic field evoked by said magnetic stimulation coil (1).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the effect of magnetic stimulation on the brain of a human subject, the method comprising the steps: applying a sequence of stimulus current pulses to a magnetic stimulation coil to induce an electric field in the brain, for each applied stimulus pulse, separately determining the position and alignment of the magnetic stimulation coil in three dimensions relative to the subject's head, determining coordinate data for the brain substantially unambiguously in the same coordinate system with the magnetic stimulation coil, calculating the intensity of the electric field induced at a desired point in the brain, or the electric current generated at said desired point, for each stimulus pulse applied to the magnetic stimulation coil, and calculating the cumulative dose of electric field induced at said desired point in the brain by summing the electric field intensity induced by the individual stimulus pulses over the sequence of pulses, or calculating the cumulative dose of electric current generated at said desired point in the brain by summing the electric currents generated by the individual stimulus pulses over the sequence of pulses. 2. A method according to claim 1, comprising graphically displaying the cumulative dose. 3. A method according to claim 1, comprising using the calculated value of the cumulative dose in assessing therapeutic effect of a magnetic stimulation treatment. 4. A method according to claim 3, comprising using the cumulative dose in monitoring safety of a patient undergoing magnetic stimulation treatment. 5. A method according to claim 1, comprising computing a value of effective dose by weighting the electric field intensity induced by the individual stimulus pulses, or the electric current generated at said desired point in the brain, using weighting coefficients representing known physiological effects. 6. The method according to claim 5, comprising using the effective dose in monitoring safety of a patient undergoing magnetic stimulation treatment. 7. A method according to claim 5, wherein the effective dose is used in comparison of physiological effects evoked by magnetic stimulation in different test subjects or subject groups. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein the cumulative dose is used in comparison of physiological effects evoked by magnetic stimulation in different test subjects or subject groups. 9. A method according to claim 1, comprising recording the brain anatomy by magnetic resonance imaging. 10. A method according to claim 1, comprising displaying the dose on an anatomic picture. 11. A method according to claim 1, comprising determining the dose in real time and using the dose as thus determined for real time monitoring. 12. A method according to claim 1, comprising monitoring the dose in real time fashion and terminating stimulation if a preset stimulus dose limit value is exceeded on any or a preset region of the brain. 13. A method according to claim 1, comprising displaying the results of the dose computation in colors and tones on brain pictures acquired by magnetic imaging. 14. An apparatus for stimulation of living tissue such as the brain of a human subject, the apparatus comprising: a magnetic stimulation coil, a location device for measuring the position and alignment of the coil relative to the subject's head, a magnetic stimulator connected to the coil for supplying a sequence of current stimulus pulses to the coil, and a computer for calculating relative intensity of the electric field induced by consecutive current pulses, computing from the position and alignment of the coil the magnitude of electric field induced in different parts of the brain, or the electric current generated in different parts of the brain by the electric field, and computing a stimulation dose after applying the sequence of stimulus pulses by Bumming the magnitudes of the electric field or current at desired points in the brain over the sequence of pulses. 15. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the location device is a device that emits infrared light. 16. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the location device measures the location and alignment of both the coil and the subject's head. 17. Apparatus according to claim 14, including a means for emitting a warning when a maximum limit value of the applied dose is exceeded. 18. Apparatus according to claim 14, including a means for weighting the doses of the stimulus pulse trains by repetition rate in order to compute the effective dose. 19. Apparatus according to claim 18, including robotic means for controlling the coil such that the effective dose will be automatically administered on a predetermined brain region. 20. Apparatus according to claim 14, including robotic means for controlling the coil such that the cumulative dose will be automatically administered on a predetermined brain region. 21. Apparatus according to claim 14, including a mechanical means for determining the position of both the coil and the subject's head. 