A portable pouch opener for countertop positioning for opening and filling a bag includes a portable housing positionable upon a desktop bench workspace. The housing has a magazine containing a supply of bags to be opened and filled. A first suction device is mounted for being moved into engagement with a bag in the magazine. The first suction device has a source of vacuum to activate the first suction device when placed into contact with one wall of the bag. Vacuum from the first suction device is withdrawn from the bag, attaching the bag to the first suction device, to remove the bag from the magazine and bring it to an opening position. An opposite facing wall of the bag is in contact with a second suction device having a source of vacuum, so that said opposite facing wall is engaged by said second suction device. Then the first suction device is retracted to separate the walls of the bag to produce an opening into the bag, allowing the bag to be filled and optionally sealed.
Claims I claim: 1. A portable desktop method of opening and filling a bag comprising the steps of: providing rotatable portable desktop bench housing, upon a desktop counter workspace, said housing having a retractable storage magazine for insertable bags, a first suction device mounted on a turntable and a second suction device, said suction devices engagable with a vacuum; orienting said rotatable portable desktop bench housing upon said desktop counter workspace; inserting a plurality of bags in a predetermined loading orientation in the storage magazine; advancing said first suction device to contact one wall of a bag while applying said vacuum to said first suction device so that said one wall of said bag becomes engaged to said first suction device; rotating said turntable to reorient said first suction device in a further orientation with said bag attached to face said second suction device being actuated by said vacuum; advancing said first suction device toward said second suction device until a facing wall of said bag is in contact with and engaged by said second suction device; retracting said first suction device to separate said walls of said bag to produce an opening into said bag; depositing an object into said bag through said opening; terminating vacuum to at least one of said suction devices resulting in said bag closing; and, releasing said bag. 2. The method of claim 1 in which said first and second suction devices are suction cups. 3. The method of claim 1 in which said first and second suction cups are aligned with each other when in contact with oppositely facing sides of said bag. 4. The method of claim 1 in which said bag is removed from a magazine by said first suction device and said first suction device is reoriented to engage another bag in said magazine after releasing said bag. 5. A method of opening and filling bags comprising the steps of: providing rotatable portable desktop bench housing, upon a desktop counter workspace, said housing having a retractable storage magazine for insertable bags, a first suction device mounted on a turntable and a second suction device, said suction devices engagable with a vacuum; orienting said rotatable portable desktop bench housing upon said desktop counter workspace so that said bag storage magazine is oriented in a first predetermined orientation of a plurality of orientations; inserting a plurality of bags in said predetermined loading orientation in the storage magazine; advancing said first suction device to contact one wall of a bag in a magazine containing a supply bags while applying said vacuum to said first suction device so that said wall of said bag becomes engaged to said first suction device; rotating said turntable to reorient said first suction device in a further orientation with said bag attached to face said second suction device being actuated by said vacuum; advancing said first suction device toward said second suction device until a facing wall of said bag is in contact with and engaged by said second suction device; retracting said first suction device to separate said walls of said bag to produce an opening into said bag; depositing an object into said bag through said opening; closing and releasing said bag to a conveyer system; and rotating said turntable to reorient said first suction device to withdraw another bag from said magazine. 6. A method of opening and filling a bag comprising the steps of: providing a portable housing upon a desktop bench workspace, a first suction device mounted on a turntable, and a second suction device; advancing said first suction device to contact one wall of said bag while applying a vacuum to said first suction device so that said one wall of said bag becomes engaged to said first suction device; rotating said turntable to reorient said first suction device with said bag attached to face a second suction device being actuated by a vacuum; advancing said first suction device toward said second suction device until an opposite facing wall of said bag is in contact with and engaged by said second suction device; retracting said first suction device to separate said walls of said bag to produce an opening into said bag; depositing an object into said bag through said opening; closing said bag by terminating vacuum to at least one of said suction devices; and releasing said bag. 7. The method of claim 6 in which said first and second suction devices are suction cups. 8. The method of claim 6 in which said first and second suction cups are aligned with each other when in contact with oppositely facing sides of said bag. 9. The method of claim 6 in which said bag is removed from a magazine by said first suction device and said first suction device is reoriented to engage another bag in said magazine after releasing said bag. 10. A method of opening and filling bags comprising the steps of: providing a portable housing upon a desktop bench workspace, a first suction device mounted on a turntable, and a second suction device; advancing said first suction device to contact one wall of a bag in a magazine containing a supply of bags while applying a vacuum to said first suction device so that said wall of said bag becomes engaged to said first suction device; rotating said turntable to reorient said first suction device with said bag attached to face a second suction device being actuated by a vacuum; advancing said first suction device toward said second suction device until an opposite facing wall of said bag is in contact with and engaged by said second suction device; retracting said first suction device to separate said walls of said bag to produce an opening into said bag; depositing an object into said bag through said opening; closing and releasing said bag to a conveyer system; and rotating said turntable to reorient said first suction device to withdraw another bag from said magazine. 11. A portable rotatable desktop apparatus for opening and filling a bag comprising: a portable rotatable desktop bench housing; said housing having a magazine containing a supply of bags in an orientation to be opened and filled; a first suction device rotatably mounted on a turntable for being moved into engagement with a bag in said magazine, said first suction device having a source vacuum to activate said first suction device when placed into contact with one wall of said bag; means for withdrawing said first suction device to remove said bag from said magazine and, after rotation of said turntable, to place an opposite facing wall of said bag in contact with a second suction device, said second suction device having a source of vacuum, so that said opposite facing wall is engaged by said second suction device; and means for retracting said first suction device to separate said walls of said bag to produce an opening into said bag allowing said bag to be filled. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 in which said second suction device is stationary. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 in which said suction devices are suction cups. 14. The apparatus of claim 11 having means for controlling the sequence of operation of said suction devices, withdrawing means and retracting means. 15. Apparatus for opening and filling a bag comprising: a portable housing positionable upon a desktop bench workspace; a magazine containing a supply of bags to be opened and filled; a first suction device rotatably mounted on a turntable for being moved into engagement with a bag in said magazine, said first suction device having a source of vacuum to activate said first suction device when placed into contact with one wall of said bag; means for withdrawing said first suction device to remove said bag from said magazine and, after rotating said turntable, to place an opposite facing wall of said bag in contact with a second suction device, said second suction device having a source of vacuum, so that said opposite facing wall is engaged by said second suction device; and means for retracting said first suction device to separate said walls of said bag to produce an opening into said bag allowing said bag to be filled. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 in which said second suction device is stationary. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 in which said suction devices are suction cups. 18. The apparatus of claim 15 having means for controlling the sequence of operation of said suction devices, withdrawing means and retracting means. 