A method for developing and using real time applications for a dynamic system having a sensing subsystem, actuation subsystem, a control subsystem, and an application subsystem utilizes stochastic compute time algorithms. After optimization functions, desired state and constraints are received and detector data has been provided from a sensor subsystem, a statistical optimization error description is generated. From this statistical optimization error description a strategy is developed, including the optimization errors, within the control subsystem. An execution module within the control subsystem then sends an execution strategy to various actuators within the actuation subsystem.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms in the form of constrained optimization techniques under feedback control to control a closed-loop, complex dynamic system including a sensing subsystem, actuation subsystem, control subsystem, and application subsystem, comprising: receiving initial detector data, optimization functions, desired state and constraints; inferring an actual system state from said initial detector data, wherein said actual system state is expressed in constraints; inferring a desired system state from said desired state and constraints; generating a statistical description of the dynamic system, utilizing the difference between said actual system state inferred from said initial detector data and said desired system state, wherein at least one received optimization function is applied to optimize said initial detector data over a time budget to determine a probability distribution of errors; developing a desired control strategy based on said statistical description, comprising utilizing constraint optimization techniques; determining at least one control signal to issue for said desired control strategy; executing said control signals in a real time application; receiving a next set of detector data, wherein said next set of detector data is expressed in system constraints; and providing feedback control comprising updating said statistical description with said next set of detector data. 2. The method for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein said statistical description is generated off-line. 3. The method for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein said statistical description is generated during operation of the dynamic system. 4. The method for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein said time budget comprises a fixed time budget. 5. The method for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein said time budget comprises an unrestricted time budget. 6. The method for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein applying said optimization function over a time budget comprises: optimizing said detector data over a fixed time budget; and optimizing said detector data over an unrestricted time budget. 7. The method for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 6, wherein developing a desired control strategy comprises using the entire statistical distribution of the error as a measurement noise or disturbance to be rejected. 8. The method for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 6, wherein developing a desired control strategy comprises using the statistical information in a Monte Carlo method, using sampling from the algorithm distribution to simulate the system behavior and evaluating the effect of a given control law and various changes to it to find an optimal control. 9. The method for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein developing a desired control strategy comprises: determining a maximum bound of errors from a probability distribution of solution errors; using control error bounds as bounds for model uncertainty; using state error bounds as bounds for observation uncertainty; and determining stability and stability margins from error bounds. 10. The method for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein the application subsystem includes a diagnostic subsystem. 11. The method for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein the application subsystem includes a reconfiguration subsystem. 12. The method for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms according to claim 1, wherein the application subsystem includes a control subsystem. 13. An article of manufacture comprising a computer usable medium having computer readable program code embodied in said medium which, when said program code is executed by said computer causes said computer to perform method steps for developing and using real time applications using stochastic compute time algorithms in the form of constrained optimization techniques under feedback control to control a closed-loop, complex dynamic system, said method comprising: receiving initial detector data, optimization functions, desired state and constraints; inferring an actual system state from said initial detector data, wherein said actual system state is expressed in constraints; inferring a desired system state from said desired state and constraints; generating a statistical description of the dynamic system, utilizing the difference between said actual system state inferred from said initial detector data and said desired system state, wherein at least one received optimization function is applied to optimize said initial detector data over a time budget to determine a probability distribution of errors; developing a desired control strategy based on said statistical description, comprising utilizing constraint optimization techniques; determining at least one control signal to issue for said desired control strategy; executing said control signals in a real time application; receiving a next set of detector data, wherein said next set of detector data is expressed in system constraints; and providing feedback control comprising updating said statistical description with said next set of detector data. 