A system for inspecting adhesive in a composite structure, such as for soft or improperly cured regions, includes a transducer and a processing element. The transducer can transmit a signal, such as an ultrasonic signal, into the adhesive such that at least a portion of the ultrasonic signal can propagate through the adhesive, reflect off of an interface between the adhesive and another material, and propagate back through the adhesive. Upon exiting the adhesive, then, the transducer can receive a reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal. Thereafter, the processing element can identify a defect, such as soft or improperly cured regions, in the adhesive upon a relationship of an amplitude of the reflected portion of the reflected ultrasonic signal to a predefined threshold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive in a composite structure that includes sections spaced apart to thereby define a gap, and at least partially cured adhesive disposed within the gap to thereby connect the sections, wherein the method comprises: transmitting a signal into the adhesive of the composite structure such that at least a portion of the signal can propagate through the adhesive and reflect back through the adhesive, the signal is transmitted into the adhesive in a direction substantially parallel to an interface of the adhesive and a section of the composite structure; receiving a reflected portion of the signal; and identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive in the composite structure based upon an amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein transmitting a signal comprises repeatedly transmitting signals into the adhesive at different points therealong, wherein receiving the reflected portion occurs for each point, wherein identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive comprises identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive at each point based upon an amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal received at the respective point. 3. A method according to claim 2 further comprising identifying a defect at each point based upon a transit time between transmission of the signal and reception of the reflected portion of the signal relative to a predetermined time. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive comprises identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive based upon a comparison of the amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal and a predefined threshold, and wherein the predetermined threshold is based upon the amplitude of the transmitted signal. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive comprises identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive when the amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal is less than a predetermined percentage of the amplitude of the transmitted signal. 6. A method according to claim 5 further comprising identifying a defect based upon a transit time between transmission of the signal and reception of the reflected portion of the signal to a predetermined time. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein identifying a defect in the composite structure based upon a relationship of a transit time comprises identifying a defect when the transit time is less than the predetermined time. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein identifying a defect when the transit time is less than the predetermined time comprises identifying a void defined within the adhesive when the transit time is less than the predetermined time. 9. A method for identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive in a composite structure that includes sections spaced apart to thereby define a gap, and at least partially cured adhesive disposed within the gap to thereby connect the sections, wherein the method comprises: transmitting a signal into the adhesive of the composite structure such that at least a portion of the signal can propagate through the adhesive and reflect back through the adhesive; receiving a reflected portion of the signal; and identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive in the composite structure based upon an amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal wherein identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive comprises identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive based upon a comparison of the amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal and a predefined threshold, and wherein the predetermined threshold is based upon the amplitude of the transmitted signal. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive comprises identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive when the amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal is less than a predetermined percentage of the amplitude of the transmitted signal. 11. A method according to claim 10 further comprising identifying a defect based upon a transit time between transmission of the signal and reception of the reflected portion of the signal to a predetermined time. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein identifying a defect in the composite structure based upon a relationship of a transit time comprises identifying a defect when the transit time is less than the predetermined time. 13. A method according to claim 12, wherein identifying a defect when the transit time is less than the predetermined time comprises identifying a void defined within the adhesive when the transit time is less than the predetermined time. 14. A method according to claim 9, wherein transmitting a signal comprises transmitting a signal into the adhesive in a direction substantially parallel to an interface of the adhesive and a section of the composite structure. 15. A method according to claim 9, wherein transmitting a signal comprises repeatedly transmitting signals into the adhesive at different points therealong, wherein receiving the reflected portion occurs for each point, wherein identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive comprises identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive at each point. 16. A method according to claim 15 further comprising identifying a defect at each point based upon a transit time between transmission of the signal and reception of the reflected portion of the signal relative to a predetermined time. 