A technique for reducing the access time in a storage system having serially accessible media. One or more duplicate copies of data are maintained at different offset locations on serial media. When a request is made to read the data, a determination is made as to which copy of the data--either the original data or one of the duplicate copies--will have the shortest access time for accessing the data. Generally, this would be the data copy that will be closest to the data transducer when the tape is positioned for access, such as a tape cartridge being loaded in a tape drive. Once the tape is ready to be accessed, the tape is positioned to access the copy of the data that is in closest linear proximity with the reading transducer. Thus, the copy of the data having the lowest access latency is chosen to satisfy the particular I/O request.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for improving access time in a data storage system comprising a plurality of serially accessible media and at least one media drive, comprising the steps of: receiving a request to write data; writing the data to a first serially accessible media at a first offset location; and writing the data to a second serially accessible media at a second offset location, wherein the first and second serially accessible media each have a first portion and a second portion, and wherein the first offset location is longitudinally positioned along the first portion of the first serially accessible media, and the second offset location is longitudinally positioned along the second portion of the second serially accessible media. 2. A method for improving access time in a data storage system comprising a plurality of serially accessible media and at least one media drive, comprising the steps of: receiving a request to write data; writing the data to a first serially accessible media at a first offset location; and writing the data to a second serially accessible media at a second offset location, wherein the first and second serially accessible media are different physical media devices, and wherein the first offset location and the second offset location are at the same offset location on each of the first and second serially accessible media. 3. A method for improving access time in a data storage system comprising a plurality of serially accessible media and at least one media drive, comprising the steps of: receiving a request to write data; writing the data to a first serially accessible media at a first offset location; and writing the data to a second serially accessible media at a second offset location; wherein the first and second serially accessible media each have a first half portion and a second half portion, and wherein the first serially accessible media is positioned to be first half portion biased after completion of the first writing step, and the second tape media is positioned to be second half portion biased after completion of the second writing step. 4. A system for improving access time in a data storage system comprising a plurality of serially accessible media and at least one media drive, comprising the steps of: means for receiving a request to write data; means for writing the data to a first serially accessible media at a first offset location; and means for writing the data to a second serially accessible media at a second offset location, wherein the first and second serially accessible media each have a first portion and a second portion, and wherein the first offset location is longitudinally positioned along the first portion of the first serially accessible media, and the second offset location is longitudinally positioned along the second portion of the second serially accessible media. 5. A system for improving access time in a data storage system comprising a plurality of serially accessible media and at least one media drive, comprising the steps of: means for receiving a request to write data; means for writing the data to a first serially accessible media at a first offset location; and means for writing the data to a second serially accessible media at a second offset location, wherein the first and second serially accessible media are different physical media devices, and wherein the first offset location and the second offset location are at the same offset location on each of the first and second serially accessible media. 6. A system for improving access time in a data storage system comprising a plurality of serially accessible media and at least one media drive, comprising the steps of: means for receiving a request to write data; means for writing the data to a first serially accessible media at a first offset location; and means for writing the data to a second serially accessible media at a second offset location, wherein the first and second serially accessible media each have a first half portion and a second half portion, and wherein the first serially accessible media is positioned to be first half portion biased after completion of the first writing step, and the second tape media is positioned to be second half portion biased after completion of the second writing step. 7. A method for reading data in a data storage system comprising a plurality of serially accessible media and at least one media drive, comprising the steps of: receiving a request to read data; selecting a serially accessible media by determining which of the plurality of serially accessible media containing a copy of the requested data has the lowest access time; loading the selected serially accessible media into a media drive; and reading the data from the loaded serially accessible media. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the lowest access time is determined by determining which of the plurality of serially accessible media containing the requested data has a head access point closest to the requested data. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the head access point is maintained in a table associated with each serially accessible media. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the head access point is maintained in a meta-label associated with each serially accessible media. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the head access point information for a given serially accessible media is updated after data access to said given serially accessible media. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein an access time is determined by: 13. A method for reading data in a data storage system comprising a plurality of serially accessible media and a plurality of media drives, comprising the steps of: receiving a request from a requestor to read data; determining which of the plurality of serially accessible media contain a copy of the requested data; loading at least some of the determined serially accessible media into respective media drives; seeking to a copy of the data in each of the loaded media drives; and reading the data from the media drive that is first to access the data; and providing the read data to the requester. 14. A method for improving access time in a data storage system comprising a plurality of serially accessible media and at least one media drive, comprising the steps of: receiving a request to write data; writing the data to a first serially accessible media at a first offset location; writing the data to a second serially accessible media at a second offset location; receiving a request to read the data; selecting a serially accessible media by determining which of the plurality of serially accessible media containing a copy of the requested data has the lowest access time; loading the selected serially accessible media into a media drive; and reading the data from the loaded serially accessible media. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the lowest access time is determined by determining which of the plurality of serially accessible media containing the requested data has a head access point closest to the requested data. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the head access point is maintained in a table associated with each serially accessible media. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein the head access point is maintained in a meta-label associated with each serially accessible media. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the head access point information for a given serially accessible media is updated after writing data to said given serially accessible media. 