A data construct set and method for use with an industrial process which is controlled according to execution code wherein a processor running the code generates requests to mechanical resources to cause the resources to perform the process, the construct enabling generation of diagnostic code interspersed within the execution code which, when an event is to occur, indicates the event to occur, the invention also including status based diagnostics generally and methods of using the data construct set for generating both execution code and status based diagnostics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A diagnostics agent to be used with an execution code and an indicator, the code for controlling control mechanism sets which in turn control resources to perform an industrial process, the code controlling by providing sequential resource requests to the mechanism sets, at least a sub-set of requests including sequential events, the agent for providing a status based diagnostic output and comprising: for at least a subset of requests, status based diagnostic code interspersed among the execution code indicating request specific events; a processor for monitoring events as they occur; and a driver linked to the processor and the indicator for, as the execution code progresses, indicating the next event expected to occur, whereby upon an occurrence of an abnormal condition with respect to one of the sequential events, the indicating of the next event assists in a diagnosis relating to the abnormal condition. 2. The agent of claim 1 wherein, for at least a sub-set of requests, the sequential events includes termination events and wherein commencement of one request depends on completion of the termination event corresponding to a previous request. 3. The agent of claim 2 wherein, for at least a sub-set of requests, the sequential event includes intermediate events. 4. The agent of claim 2 wherein the indicator is a display linked to the driver and wherein the indicator indicates by displaying the next termination event. 5. The agent of claim 1 wherein the execution code, for at least a sub-set of the requests, includes specification of at least one abnormal condition and diagnostic code which specifies a function to be performed if the abnormal condition occurs. 6. The agent of claim 1 also for providing a causal based diagnostic output wherein the execution code further specifies causal based diagnostics for at least a sub-set abnormal conditions which specify a function to be performed if the abnormal condition occurs. 7. The agent of claim 1 wherein each mechanism set is controllable and monitorable via I/O signals and has states corresponding to specific I/O combinations and wherein the events correspond to specific states. 8. A method for use with a processor and an editor, the processor for running execution code to generate requests provided to control mechanism sets thereby causing the mechanism sets to perform an industrial process, the method for providing execution code including diagnostic code for performing diagnostic functions for at least one mechanism set, the method comprising the steps of: for each mechanism set, encapsulating in a control assembly (CA): (i) an execution logic specification specifying resource requests to the mechanism set; and (ii) a diagnostic specification specifying at least one abnormal condition corresponding to the mechanism set and at least one function to be performed if the at least one abnormal condition occurs; selecting at least one CA for the at least one mechanism set; providing a diagnostic editor that allows a user to select diagnostic functions for the at least one mechanism set; and after at least one diagnostic function is selected, updating the diagnostic specification to reflect the selected function. 9. The method of claim 8 further including the step of, after updating, compiling the CA instances to provide the execution code including code that supports the selected diagnostic functions. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein at least a sub-set of the diagnostic functions include providing messages indicating a sensed event. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the execution code generates I/O combinations and wherein the step of providing execution code that supports the selected diagnostic functions includes providing code that monitors I/O combinations and, based thereon, provides the messages indicating the sensed events. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein the step of providing a diagnostic editor includes providing diagnostic function options via a visual display. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of providing options via a visual display includes, for each control mechanism corresponding to the at least one selected CA and that is associated with an optional diagnostic function, identifying the control mechanism and at least one state of the control mechanism associated with the function. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the step of providing options further includes the step of indicating the diagnostic function associated with each of the control mechanism states. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of indicating the diagnostic function includes indicating warning text that will be generated when a specific control mechanism state occurs. 16. The method of claim 8 wherein at least a sub-set of the processor requests include request events, the method also for generating execution code that supports status based diagnostics, for each mechanism set, the step of encapsulating a diagnostic specification further including specifying events corresponding to at least a sub-set of the resources requests. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein, for at least a sub-set of requests, the events includes termination events indicating the end of a request and wherein commencement of one request depends on completion of the termination event corresponding to a previous request. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein, for at least a sub-set of requests, the events include intermediate events. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein each mechanism set is controllable and monitorable via I/O signals and has states corresponding to specific I/O combinations and wherein the events correspond to specific states. 20. A method for use with a processor and an editor, the processor for running execution code to generate requests provided to control mechanism sets thereby causing the mechanism sets to perform an industrial process, the method for providing execution code that supports diagnostic functions for at least one mechanism set, the method for use with at least one control assembly (CA) including an execution logic specification specifying resource requests for at least one mechanism set and a diagnostic specification specifying at least one abnormal condition corresponding to the at least one mechanism set and at least one function to be performed if the at least one abnormal condition occurs, the method comprising the steps of: selecting at least one CA for the at least one mechanism set; providing a diagnostic editor that allows a user to select diagnostic functions for the at least one mechanism set; and after at least one diagnostic function is selected, updating the diagnostic specification to reflect the selected function. 21. The method of claim 20 further including the step of, after updating the diagnostic specification, compiling the selected CA to provide the execution code that supports the selected diagnostic functions. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein at least a sub-set of the diagnostic functions include generating text messages and wherein the step of providing an editor includes indicating the text messages to a system user. 23. An apparatus for use with a processor and an editor, the processor for running execution code to generate requests provided to control mechanism sets thereby causing the mechanism sets to perform an industrial process, the apparatus for providing execution code including diagnostic code for performing diagnostic functions for at least one mechanism set, the apparatus comprising: a database including a separate control assembly (CA) for each mechanism set type, each CA including: (i) an execution logic specification specifying resource requests to the mechanism set; and (ii) a diagnostic specification specifying at least one abnormal condition corresponding to the mechanism set and at least one function to be performed if the at least one abnormal condition occurs; an interface for selecting at least one CA associated with at least one mechanism set; a diagnostic editor that, after at least one CA is selected, provides a diagnostic function list and a selection tool for selecting functions from the list via the interface; and a processor that, after diagnostic functions have been selected, updates the diagnostic specification to reflect the selected function. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the processor is programmed to, after the step of updating the diagnostic specification, compile the CA instances including the updated diagnostic specification to provide the execution code including code that supports the selected diagnostic functions. 25. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the interface is a visual display. 26. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the diagnostic editor provides the list by, for each control mechanism corresponding to the at least one selected CA and that is associated with an optional diagnostic function, identifying the control mechanism and at least one state of the control mechanism associated with the function. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein the diagnostic editor also indicates the diagnostic function associated with each of the control mechanism states. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein the diagnostic editor indicates the diagnostic function by providing warning text that will be generated when a specific control mechanism state occurs. 29. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein at least a sub-set of the processor requests include request events, the apparatus also for generating execution code that supports status based diagnostics, for each mechanism set, the associated CA encapsulating a diagnostic specification further including specifying events corresponding to at least a sub-set of the resources requests, for at least a sub-set of requests, the events includes termination events indicating the end of a request and wherein commencement of one request depends on completion of the termination event corresponding to a previous request, the processor programmed to compile the CA instances including the updated diagnostic specification to provide the execution code including code that supports the selected diagnostic functions and that supports status based diagnostics. 30. A diagnostics agent to be used with an execution code and an indicator, the code for controlling control mechanism sets which in turn control resources to perform an industrial process, the code controlling by providing sequential resource requests to the mechanism sets, at least a sub-set of requests including sequential events, the agent for providing a status based diagnostic output and comprising: for at least the sub-set of requests to be provided to the mechanism sets to control the resources of the industrial process, status based diagnostic code interspersed among the execution code indicating request specific events; a processor for monitoring events as they occur in relation to the performing of the industrial process; and a driver linked to the processor and the indicator for, as the execution code progresses, indicating the next event expected to occur in relation to the performing of the industrial process. 