Power strip health is monitored by detecting power supplied through the power strip as sensed by a robotic device. An indication of power is sensed from the power strip with a first power pickup and a second power pickup. The second power pickup is located on the robotic device away from the first power pickup along a direction of travel of the robotic device. A determination is made that the difference between the power sensed with the first power pickup and the power sensed with the second power pickup exceeds a threshold. A power strip failure is determined based on this difference.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting failure of a power strip, the power strip providing power to a robotic device traveling along at least one rail associated with a data storage library, the method comprising: sensing an indication of power from the power strip with a first power pickup, the first pickup located on the robotic device; sensing an indication of power from the power strip with a second power pickup, the second power pickup located on the robotic device a distance from the first power pickup along a direction of travel of the robotic device; determining when the difference between the power sensed with the first power pickup and the power sensed with the second power pickup exceeds a threshold; and determining a power strip failure based on the determined difference. 2. A method of detecting failure of a power strip as in claim 1 wherein sensing the power comprises detecting current flow. 3. A method of detecting failure of a power strip as in claim 1 wherein sensing the indication of power comprises sensing voltage and wherein determining the difference between sensed power comprises determining the voltage potential between the first power pickup and the second power pickup. 4. A method of detecting failure of a power strip as in claim 1 wherein at least one of the first power pickup and the second power pickup comprises a brush. 5. A method of detecting failure of a power strip as in claim 1 further comprising transmitting the determination of power strip failure from the robotic device to a control device within the data storage library. 6. A method of detecting failure of a power strip as in claim 5 wherein the determined power strip failure is transmitted between the robotic device and the control device along the power strip. 7. A data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage locations for holding data storage media disposed within the library; at least one rail disposed within the library located to provide access to the storage locations; at least one conductor on each rail, each conductor carrying electrical current; at least one robotic device mounted to travel along the at least one rail, each robotic device accessing storage media held in the storage locations; at least one pair of brushes on each robotic device, each brush in the pair of brushes conducting electrical current between the robotic device and the conductor; and electronics operative to determine an operating status of the conductor based on a measurement of the difference in power supplied through each brush in the pair of brushes. 8. A data storage library as in claim 7 further comprising at least one controller controlling operation of at least one robotic device, the electronics operative to transmit a signal indicative of the operating status to the controller. 9. A data storage library as in claim 8 wherein the electronics transmit the signal through at least one of the conductors. 10. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein each brush pair forms a parallel current path. 11. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein each brush pair forms a series current path. 12. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein brushes in each brush pair are spaced apart from each other along a distance in a direction of travel of the robotic device. 13. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein the measurement of the difference in power supplied through each brush in the pair of brushes is based on sensing current flowing through each brush in the pair of brushes. 14. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein the measurement of the difference in power supplied through each brush in the pair of brushes is based on sensing the potential difference between each brush in the pair of brushes. 15. A robot for accessing data storage media in a data storage library, the robot operative to access data storage media by traveling along a rail having an electrical conductor running along the rail, the robot comprising: a first pickup contacting the conductor, the first pickup for conducting current between the conductor and the robot; a second pickup contacting the conductor, the second pickup for conducting current between the conductor and the robot; electronics operative to determine a difference signal as the difference in current conducted by the first pickup and by the second pickup; and control logic determining an operative condition of the conductor based on the difference signal. 16. A robot for accessing data storage media as in claim 15 wherein the control logic is further operative to generate a health signal indicative of the operative condition and to transmit the health signal through at least one of the pickups. 17. A robot for accessing data storage media as in claim 16 wherein at least one pickup comprises a brush. 18. A robot for accessing data storage media in a data storage library, the robot operative to access data storage media by traveling along a rail having an electrical conductor running along the rail, the robot comprising: a first pickup contacting the conductor, the first pickup for conducting current between the conductor and the robot; a second pickup contacting the conductor, the second pickup for conducting current between the conductor and the robot; electronics operative to determine a difference signal as the voltage difference between the first pickup and the second pickup; and control logic determining an operative condition of the conductor based on the difference signal. 19. A robot for accessing data storage media as in claim 18 wherein the control logic is further operative to generate a health signal indicative of the operative condition and to transmit the health signal through at least one of the pickups. 20. A robot for accessing data storage media as in claim 18 wherein at least one pickup comprises a brush. 