A system for inspecting adhesive in a composite structure, such as for soft or improperly cured regions, includes a transducer and a processing element. The transducer can transmit a signal, such as an ultrasonic signal, into the adhesive such that at least a portion of the ultrasonic signal can propagate through the adhesive, reflect off of an interface between the adhesive and another material, and propagate back through the adhesive. Upon exiting the adhesive, then, the transducer can receive a reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal. Thereafter, the processing element can identify a defect, such as soft or improperly cured regions, in the adhesive upon a relationship of an amplitude of the reflected portion of the reflected ultrasonic signal to a predefined threshold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for inspecting adhesive bonding together a plurality of elements in a composite structure that includes sections spaced apart to thereby define a gap, wherein the composite structure further includes at least partially cured adhesive disposed within the gap to thereby connect the sections, said system comprising: a transducer capable of transmitting a signal directly into the adhesive such that at least a portion of the signal can propagate through the adhesive, reflect back through the adhesive and be received by said transducer; and a processing element capable of identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive in the composite structure based upon an amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal received by said transducer. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said processing element is capable of responding to a decrease in the amplitude of the signal transmitted by said transducer by a predetermined amount. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein said processing element is further capable of identifying a defect in the composite structure based upon a relationship of a transit time between transmission of the signal and reception of the reflected portion of the signal to a predetermined time. 4. A system according to claim 3, wherein said processing element is capable of identifying a defect when the transit time is less than the predetermined time. 5. A system according to claim 4, wherein said processing element is capable of identifying a void defined within the adhesive when the transit time is less than the predetermined time. 6. A system according to claim 1 further comprising a scanning assembly electrically connected to said processing element, wherein said transducer is carried by said scanning assembly such that said scanning assembly guides said transducer along the adhesive. 7. A system according to claim 1, wherein said transducer is capable of repeatedly transmitting signals into the adhesive at different points therealong, and capable of receiving the reflected portion at each point, and wherein said processing element is capable of identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive at each point based upon an amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal received at the respective point. 8. A system according to claim 7, wherein said processing element is further capable of identifying a defect as each point based upon a relationship of a transit time between transmission of the signal and reception of the reflected portion of the signal to a predetermined time. 9. A system for inspecting adhesive bonding together a plurality of elements in a composite structure that includes sections spaced apart to thereby define a gap, wherein the composite structure further includes at least partially cured adhesive disposed within the gap to thereby connect the sections, said system comprising: a transducer capable of transmitting a signal into the adhesive such that at least a portion of the signal can propagate through the adhesive, reflect back through the adhesive and be received by said transducer, wherein said transducer includes at least one rubber sheet disposed proximate a face of said transducer between said transducer and the adhesive, and wherein the at least one rubber sheet is capable of solid-coupling said transducer to the adhesive; and a processing element capable of identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive in the composite structure based upon an amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal received by said transducer. 10. A system for inspecting adhesive bonding together a plurality of elements in a composite structure that includes sections spaced apart to thereby define a gap, wherein the composite structure further includes at least partially cured adhesive disposed within the gap to thereby connect the sections, said system comprising: a transducer capable of transmitting a signal into the adhesive such that at least a portion of the signal can propagate through the adhesive, reflect back through the adhesive and be received by said transducer; a wheel probe with said transducer therein, wherein said wheel probe includes a rubber strip capable of solid-coupling said transducer to the adhesive; and a processing element capable of identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive in the composite structure based upon an amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal received by said transducer. 11. A system for inspecting adhesive bonding together a plurality of elements in a composite structure that includes sections spaced apart to thereby define a gap, wherein the composite structure further includes at least partially cured adhesive disposed within the gap to thereby connect the sections, said system comprising: a transducer capable of transmitting a signal into the adhesive such that at least a portion of the signal can propagate through the adhesive, reflect back through the adhesive and be received by said transducer; and a processing element capable of identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive in the composite structure based upon an amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal received by said transducer, wherein said processing element is capable of identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive based upon a comparison of the amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal and a predefined threshold, and wherein the predetermined threshold is based upon the amplitude of the signal transmitted by said transducer. 12. A method for inspecting a joint in a composite structure comprising: providing a composite structure that includes sections spaced apart to thereby define a gap, wherein the composite structure further includes at least partially cured adhesive disposed within the gap to thereby connect the sections; transmitting a signal directly into the adhesive such that at least a portion of the signal can propagate through the adhesive and reflect back through the adhesive; receiving a reflected portion of the signal; and identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive in the composite structure based upon an amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal. 13. A method according to claim 12, wherein transmitting a signal comprises repeatedly transmitting signals into the adhesive at different points therealong, wherein receiving the reflected portion occurs for each point, wherein identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive comprises identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive at each point based upon an amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal received at the respective point. 14. A method according to claim 13 further comprising identifying a defect at each point based upon a transit time between transmission of the signal and reception of the reflected portion of the signal relative to a predetermined time. 15. A method for inspecting a joint in a composite structure comprising: providing a composite structure that includes sections spaced apart to thereby define a gap, wherein the composite structure further includes at least partially cured adhesive disposed within the gap to thereby connect the sections; transmitting a signal into the adhesive such that at least a portion of the signal can propagate through the adhesive and reflect back through the adhesive; receiving a reflected portion of the signal; and identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive in the composite structure based upon an amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal, wherein identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive comprises identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive based upon a comparison of the amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal and a predefined threshold, and wherein the predetermined threshold is based upon the amplitude of the transmitted signal. 16. A method according to claim 15, wherein identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive comprises identifying at least one region of incompletely cured adhesive when the amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal is less than a predetermined percentage of the amplitude of the transmitted signal. 17. A method according to claim 16, further comprising identifying a defect based upon a transit time between transmission of the signal and reception of the reflected portion of the signal to a predetermined time. 18. A method according to claim 17, wherein identifying a defect in the composite structure based upon a relationship of a transit time comprises identifying a defect when the transit time is less than the predetermined time. 19. A method according to claim 18, wherein identifying a defect when the transit time is less than the predetermined time comprises identifying a void defined within the adhesive when the transit time is less than the predetermined time. 20. A method for inspecting a joint in a composite structure comprising: providing a composite structure that includes sections spaced apart to thereby define a gap, wherein the composite structure further includes at least partially cured adhesive disposed within the gap to thereby bond the sections; transmitting a signal directly into the adhesive such that at least a portion of the signal can propagate through the adhesive and reflects back through the adhesive; receiving a reflected portion of the signal; and separately identifying at least one of a region of incompletely cured adhesive and a void within the adhesive, wherein at least one of the region and the void are identified based upon the reflected portion of the signal. 21. A method according to claim 20, wherein identifying a void within the adhesive comprises identifying a void within the adhesive when the transit time is less than the predetermined time. 22. A method for inspecting a joint in a composite structure comprising; providing a composite structure that includes sections spaced apart to thereby define a gap, wherein the composite structure further includes at least partially cured adhesive disposed within the gap to thereby bond the sections; transmitting a signal into the adhesive such that at least a portion of the signal can propagate through the adhesive and reflects back through the adhesive; receiving a reflected portion of the signal; and separately identifying at least one of a region of incompletely cured adhesive and a void within the adhesive, wherein at least one of the region and the void are identified based upon the reflected portion of the signal, wherein identifying a region of incompletely cured adhesive comprises identifying a region of incompletely cured adhesive based upon a comparison of the amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal and a predefined threshold, and wherein the predetermined threshold is based upon the amplitude of the transmitted signal. 23. A method according to claim 22, wherein identifying a region of incompletely cured adhesive comprises, identifying a region of incompletely cured adhesive when the amplitude of the reflected portion of the signal is less than a predetermined percentage of the amplitude of the transmitted signal. 