An endoscope having a guide tube is described herein. The assembly has an endoscope which is slidably insertable within the lumen of a guide tube. The guide tube is configured to be rigidizable along its entire length from a relaxed configuration. The endoscope has a steerable distal portion to facilitate the steering of the device through tortuous paths. In the relaxed configuration, a portion of the guide tube is able to assume the shape or curve defined by the controllable distal portion of the endoscope. Having assumed the shape or curve of the endoscope, the guide tube may be rigidized by the physician or surgeon to maintain that shape or curve while the endoscope is advanced distally through the tortuous path without having to place any undue pressure against the tissue walls.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for advancing an endoscope through a tortuous path, comprising: an endoscope shaft having a proximal end, a controllable distal end, and a length therebetween; and an elongate guide tube having a length which defines a lumen therethrough and wherein the guide tube is adapted to slidingly receive the endoscope shaft within the lumen, the guide tube further comprising at least one tensioning member disposed along the length of the guide tube for selectively rigidizing the length of the guide tube, wherein at least a portion of the guide tube is further adapted to conform to and maintain a shape defined by the controllable distal end when the tensioning member is under a tensioning force. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the endoscope shaft comprises a conventional endoscope shaft. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the endoscope shaft comprises an elongate body having a proximal end and a selectively steerable distal end and defining at least one lumen therebetween, the elongate body comprising a plurality of segments interconnected via joints, and at least one motor attached to each of at least a majority of segments for actuating an adjacent segment and wherein each motor is independently controllable, wherein when the distal end assumes a selected curve, the plurality of segments are configured to propagate the selected curve along the elongate body by each motor selectively actuating the adjacent segment. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the guide tube comprises a plurality of segments which are connected adjacently, wherein at least a majority of the segments are angularly movable relative to one another. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the guide tube comprises at least three tensioning members disposed along the length of the guide tube. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein each of the tensioning members are located circumferentially relative to one another about the guide tube. 7. The system of claim 1 further comprising a tubular covering disposed over at least a majority of an outer surface of the guide tube. 8. The system of claim 1 further comprising a covering disposed over a distal end of the guide tube lumen. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the covering comprises a gusseted region which is adapted to expand from a first compressed configuration to a second longitudinally expanded configuration as the endoscope shaft is advanced distally relative to the distal end of the guide tube lumen. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein the covering is adapted to evert upon itself when the endoscope shaft is positioned within the guide tube lumen. 11. The system of claim 8 wherein the covering is adapted to stretch distally when the endoscope shaft is advanced distally relative to the distal end of guide tube. 12. The system of claim 8 wherein the covering is attached between the distal end of the guide tube and along a distal location on the endoscope shaft. 13. The system of claim 8 wherein the covering is attached between the distal end of the guide tube and over the distal end of the endoscope shaft. 14. The system of claim 8 wherein the covering is disposed entirely over the distal end of the guide tube lumen and the distal end of the endoscope shaft. 15. A method of advancing an endoscope along a path, comprising: advancing an endoscope shaft along the path until a curve in the path is encountered; manipulating a controllable distal end of the endoscope shaft to assume a shape to traverse the curve; advancing a guide tube in a flexible state over the endoscope shaft such that a portion of the guide tube assumes the shape defined by the controllable distal end of the endoscope shaft; applying tension to rigidize a length of the guide tube such that the shape is maintained by the guide tube; and further advancing the endoscope shaft through the rigidized guide tube. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising relaxing the guide tube. 17. The method of claim 15 further comprising preventing tearing of surrounding tissue during relative movement between the guide tube and the endoscope shaft. 18. The method of claim 15 further comprising preventing pinching of surrounding tissue during relative movement between the guide tube and the endoscope shaft. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein the guide tube is advanced over the endoscope shaft until a distal end of the guide tube is located adjacent with, just proximally, or just distally of the distal end of the endoscope shaft. 20. The method of claim 15 wherein manipulating the controllable distal end of the endoscope comprises manually controlling the distal end to assume the shape. 21. The method of claim 15 further comprising expanding a covering disposed over the distal end of the guide tube as the endoscope shaft is advanced distally relative to the guide tube. 22. The method of claim 15 wherein applying tension to rigidize a length of the guide tube comprises tensioning at least one tensioning member disposed along the length of the guide tube. 23. The method of claim 15 wherein applying tension to rigidize a length of the guide tube comprises compressing guide tube segments. 24. The method of claim 15 wherein the guide tube shape is maintained by compressing adjacent guide tube segments. 25. A method of advancing an endoscope through a path, comprising: advancing an endoscope shaft along the path until a curve in the path is encountered; manipulating a controllable distal end of the endoscope shaft to assume a shape to traverse the curve; advancing a segmented guide tube in a flexible state over the endoscope shaft such that a portion of the guide tube assumes the shape defined by the distal end of the endoscope shaft; and maintaining the assumed shape of the guide tube by compressing at least two guide tube segments. 26. The method of claim 25 further comprising preventing tearing of surrounding tissue during relative movement between the guide tube and the endoscope. 27. The method of claim 25 further comprising preventing pinching of surrounding tissue during relative movement between the guide tube and the endoscope. 28. The method of claim 25 further comprising expanding a cover configured to expand distally either over or with the endoscope shaft. 