In a swarm weapon system, decision-making processes are described for the organization of mobile robotic vehicles (MRVs). After MRV drone sensor data is provided to a lead MRV, an initial decision is made by the lead MRV as a result of the selection of a winning simulation that provides the best opportunity for success of a mission. Once this decision is made, actions are organized for the MRVs, which provide feedback for the continuation of the process until the mission is completed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for rendering decisions for mobile robotic vehicles, comprising: a plurality of mobile robotic vehicles (MRVs); and a plurality of squads, each squad having a lead MRV and member MRVs; wherein initial mission parameters are transmitted to the lead MRV and the member MRVs; wherein sensor data from the member MRVs is transmitted to the lead MRV; wherein the sensor data is weighted by the lead MRV and ranked by priority of importance; wherein the sensor data is further interpreted by the lead MRV by comparing it with mission parameters; wherein the lead MRV calculates a plurality of possible simulations to meet mission goals; wherein the lead MRV uses a plurality of methods to test the plurality of possible simulations using the sensor data and the initial mission parameters to determine the best simulation to meet the mission goals; and wherein the lead MRV generates instructions and transmits the instructions to the member MRVs to allow the member MRVs to form an optimal geometric configuration according to the best simulation. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the plurality of methods are sent to the lead MRV from a central command via a satellite by using a plurality of mobile software agents. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the lead MRV resolves a conflict between two member MRVs. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein the lead MRV resolves the conflict by comparing MRV priorities with initial program parameters. 5. The system of claim 3 wherein the two member MRVs provide sensor data to allow the lead MRV to resolve the conflict. 