A digital image processing-based system and method for quantitatively processing a plurality of nucleic acid species expressed in a microarray are disclosed. The microarray is a grid of a plurality of sub-grids of the nucleic acid species. The system includes a scanner that has a digital scanning sensor that scans the microarray and transmits from an output a digital image of the microarray, and a computer that receives the digital image of the microarray from the scanner and then processes the digital image, identifying each of the microarray's sub-grids. The computer identifies the position of each of the sub-grids by (a) identifying regions in the digital image that each contains one of the sub-grids, (b) identifying rows and columns in each region where nucleic acid species are expressed to form a set of candidate sub-grids in each region, (c) selecting for each region a probable sub-grid from the set of candidate sub-grids in each region, and (d) comparing the positions of the probable sub-grids from each region to finalize the sub-grid positions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for assessing chemical materials manifested as an array of signals, the array being a grid of a plurality of sub-grids of the chemical materials, said system comprising: a memory storing a digital image of the array; and a processor for accessing the digital image from said memory, identifying each of the plurality of sub-grids in the digital image by locating sub-grid regions in the digital image, selecting probable sub-grids in the sub-grid regions, and comparing locations of the probable sub-grids to finalize locations of the sub-grids in each region. 2. The system of claim 1, the sub-grid regions in the digital image each containing one of the plurality of sub-grids. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising a scanner for scanning the array and outputting the digital image of the array into said memory. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising an arrayer, the arrayer depositing the chemical materials on a slide to form the array. 5. The system of claim 1, said processor detecting and measuring signals associated with the chemical materials in each sub-grid of the array. 6. The system of claim 1, said processor locating sub-grid regions in the digital image by: summing pixel intensities along columns and rows of the digital image to obtain an ordered column vector and an ordered row vector of pixel sums, identifying intensity maxima and intensity minima in each vector, calculating a peak value for each maximum in each vector, selecting the maxima with the largest peak values to form an ordered set of a predetermined size of selected maxima for each vector, calculating a mode of the distance between adjacent selected maxima, removing from the set of selected maxima for each vector each selected maximum within the mode distance of another selected maximum with a larger peak value, classifying the selected maxima into one of at least three categories depending on the peak value of each selected maximum, inserting maxima into each ordered set of selected maxima midway between adjacent selected maxima that are greater than a threshold distance apart, specifying a plurality of ordered subsets within each ordered set of selected maxima each subset having a predetermined number of selected maxima, computing a score for each of the plurality of ordered subsets based on the sum of the peak values in each subset, selecting a predetermined number of subsets having the highest scores for each ordered set, and partitioning the array into regions defined by the selected ordered subsets. 7. The system of claim 6, the predetermined size of the ordered set of selected maxima for the column vector being an expected number of rows in each sub-grid multiplied by an expected number of rows of sub-grids, and the predetermined size of the ordered set of selected maxima for the row vector being an expected number of columns in each sub-grid multiplied by an expected number of columns of sub-grids. 8. The system of claim 6, the threshold distance between adjacent selected maxima being the mode distance multiplied by about 1.5. 9. The system of claim 6, the predetermined number of selected maxima within each ordered subset for the row vector being an expected number of columns in each sub-grid and the predetermined number of selected maxima within each ordered subset for the column vector being an expected number of rows in each sub-grid. 10. The system of claim 6, the predetermined number of subsets having the highest scores being the number of columns of sub-grids in the array for the row vector and the number of rows of sub-grids in the array for the column vector. 11. The system of claim 6, the peak value for each maximum being an average intensity difference between the maximum and its two adjacent minima in the vector. 12. The system of claim 1, said processor selecting probable sub-grids in the sub-grid regions by: identifying rows and columns where signals for chemical materials are located to form a set of candidate sub-grids in each region, and selecting for each region a probable sub-grid from the set of candidate sub-grids for each region. 13. The system of claim 12, said processor identifying rows and columns where signals for chemical materials are located to form a set of candidate sub-grids in each region by: summing pixel intensities in each dimension of each region to obtain a column vector and row vector of pixel sums in each region, applying a lowpass filter to the vectors, applying a maximum filter to the vectors to form an ordered set of maxima for each vector in each region, inserting additional maxima into each ordered set of selected maxima midway between adjacent selected maxima that are greater than a threshold distance apart to obtain new ordered sets of maxima, and verifying that the number of maxima in each new ordered set is not less than a predetermined number, wherein the locations of the maxima in each new ordered set specify the grid points for the set of candidate sub-grids. 14. The system of claim 13, the maximum filter having a window sized to an expected diameter of the signals for the chemical materials. 15. The system of claim 13, the threshold distance between adjacent selected maxima being the mode distance multiplied by about 1.5. 16. The system of claim 13, the predetermined number of maxima in each new ordered set being the expected number of columns in each sub-grid for each respective row vector and being the expected number of rows in each sub-grid for each respective column vector. 17. The system of claim 12, said processor selecting for each region a probable sub-grid from the set of candidate sub-grids in each region by: generating a circular template filter, centering the filter on each grid point in each region to calculate a likelihood score reflecting the probability of a signal on each grid point, ordering the grid points in each region according to their likelihood score, specifying sets of candidate sub-grids according to the grid points that comprise the sub-grids, calculating sub-grid scores for each of the candidate sub-grids in each region based on the sum of likelihood scores of each grid point, and selecting the probable sub-grid from each region from the set of candidate sub-grids in each region with the highest sub-grid score. 18. The system of claim 1, said processor comparing locations of the probable sub-grids to finalize locations of the sub-grids for each region by: determining for the probable sub-grid for each region whether the probable sub-grid is bounded or free; and bounding free sub-grids according to the location of the bounded sub-grids neighboring the free sub-grids. 19. The system of claim 1, said processor determining a performance at identifying each of the plurality of sub-grids in the digital image. 20. The system of claim 19, said processor determining the performance by determining a level of alignment between sub-grids. 21. The system of claim 19, said processor determining the performance by determining a level of uniformity in distance between sub-grids. 22. The system of claim 19, said processor determining the performance by determining a number of missing sub-grids in the array. 23. The system of claim 19, said processor determining the performance by measuring a degree of parallelism of rows and of columns of a sub-grid. 24. The system of claim 19, said processor determining the performance by measuring a degree of orthogonality between rows and columns of a sub-grid. 25. The system of claim 1, the chemical materials being nucleic acid species and the array of signals being a microarray of signals associated with the nucleic acid species. 26. A method of assessing chemical materials manifested as an array of signals in a digital image comprising the steps of: (a) locating sub-grid regions in the digital image; (b) selecting probable sub-grids in the sub-grid regions; and (c) comparing locations of the probable sub-grids to finalize locations of the sub-grids for each region. 27. The method of claim 26, the sub-grid regions in the digital image each containing exactly one of the plurality of sub-grids. 28. The method of claim 26, step (b) comprising steps of: (ba) identifying rows and columns for the signals of the chemical materials in each region to form a set of candidate sub-grids in each region; and (bb) selecting for each region a probable sub-grid from the set of candidate sub-grids in each region. 29. The method of claim 28, step (ba) comprising steps of: (ba1) summing pixels intensities in each dimension of each region to obtain a column vector and row vector of pixel sums in each region; (ba2) applying a lowpass filter to the vectors; (ba3) applying a maximum filter to the vectors to form an ordered set of maxima for each vector in each region; (ba4) inserting additional maxima into each ordered set of selected maxima midway between adjacent selected maxima that are greater than a threshold distance apart to obtain new ordered sets of maxima, and (ba5) verifying that the number of maxima in each new ordered set is not less than a predetermined number, wherein the locations of the maxima in each new ordered set specify the grid points for the set of candidate sub-grids. 30. The method of claim 29, the maximum filter having a window sized to an expected diameter of the expressed nucleic acid species. 31. The method of claim 29, the threshold distance between adjacent selected maxima being the mode distance multiplied by about 1.5. 32. The method of claim 29, the predetermined number of maxima in each new ordered set being the expected number of columns in each sub-grid for each respective row vector and being the expected number of rows in each sub-grid for each respective column vector. 33. The method of claim 28, step (bb) comprising steps of: (bb1) generating a circular template filter; (bb2) centering the filter on each grid point in each region to calculate a likelihood score reflecting the probability of a signal on each grid point; (bb3) ordering the grid points in each region according to their likelihood score; (bb4) specifying sets of candidate sub-grids according to the grid points that comprise the sub-grids; (bb5) calculating sub-grid scores for each of the candidate sub-grids in each region based on the sum of likelihood scores of each grid point; and (bb6) selecting the probable sub-grid from each region from the set of candidate sub-grids in each region with the highest sub-grid score. 34. The method of claim 26, the array of signals of the chemical materials being a microarray of expressed nucleic acid species, the method further comprising steps, prior to step (a), of: (a) depositing in a configuration of the microarray a plurality of nucleic acid species on a slide, (b) hybridizing to the microarray with multiple fluorescently labeled nucleic acids, and (c) generating a digital image of the microarray. 35. The method of claim 26, further comprising a step of detecting and measuring signals for the chemical materials in each sub-grid of the array. 36. The method of claim 26, step (a) comprising steps of: (aa) summing pixel intensities in each dimension of the digital image to obtain an ordered column vector and an ordered row vector of pixel sums; (ab) identifying intensity maxima and intensity minima in each vector; (ac) calculating a peak value for each maximum in each vector; (ad) selecting maxima having the largest peak values to form an ordered set of a predetermined size of selected maxima for each vector; (ae) calculating a mode of the distance between adjacent selected maxima; (af) removing from the set of selected maxima for each vector each selected maximum within the mode distance of another selected maximum with a larger peak value; (ag) classifying the selected maxima into one of at least three categories depending on the peak value of each selected maximum; (ah) inserting additional maxima into each ordered set of selected maxima midway between adjacent selected maxima that are greater than a threshold distance apart to obtain new ordered sets of maxima; (ai) specifying a plurality of ordered subsets within each new ordered set of maxima, each subset having a predetermined number of maxima from the new ordered set of maxima; (aj) computing a score for each of the plurality of ordered subsets based on the sum of the peak values in each subset; (ak) selecting a predetermined number of subsets having the highest scores for each new ordered set of maxima; and (al) partitioning the array into regions defined by the selected ordered subsets. 37. The method of claim 36, the predetermined size of the new ordered set of maxima for the column vector being an expected number of rows in each sub-grid multiplied by an expected number of rows of sub-grids, and the predetermined size of the new ordered set of maxima for the row vector being an expected number of columns in each sub-grid multiplied by an expected number of columns of sub-grids. 38. The method of claim 36, the threshold distance between adjacent selected maxima being the mode distance multiplied by about 1.5. 39. The method of claim 36, the predetermined number of maxima from the new ordered set of maxima within each ordered subset for the row vector being an expected number of columns in each sub-grid and the predetermined number of maxima from the new ordered set of maxima within each ordered subset for the column vector being an expected number of rows in each sub-grid. 40. The method of claim 36, the predetermined number of subsets having the highest scores being the number of columns of sub-grids in the microarray for the row vector and the number of rows of sub-grids in the microarray for the column vector. 41. The method of claim 26, step (c) comprising steps of: (ca) determining for the probable sub-grid for each region whether the probable sub-grid is bounded or free; and (cb) bounding free sub-grids according to the location of the bounded sub-grids neighboring the free sub-grids. 42. The method of claim 26 further comprising a step of generating the digital image of the microarray. 43. The method of claim 26, the chemical materials being nucleic acid species and the array of signals being a microarray of signals associated with the nucleic acid species. 44. The method of claim 26, further comprising the step of determining a performance at identifying each of the plurality of sub-grids in the digital image. 45. The method of claim 44, wherein the step of determining the performance comprises determining a level of alignment between sub-grids. 46. The method of claim 44, wherein the step of determining the performance comprises determining a level of uniformity in distance between sub-grids. 47. The method of claim 44, wherein the step of determining the performance comprises determining a number of missing sub-grids in the array. 48. The method of claim 44, wherein the step of determining the performance comprises measuring a degree of parallelism of rows and of columns of a sub-grid. 49. The method of claim 44, wherein the step of determining the performance comprises measuring a degree of orthogonality between rows and columns of a sub-grid. 50. A computer readable medium having stored therein one or more sequences of instructions for assessing chemical materials manifested as an array of signals in a digital image, said one or more sequences of instructions causing one or more processors to perform a plurality of acts, said acts comprising: (a) locating sub-grid regions in the digital image; (b) selecting probable sub-grids in the sub-grid regions; and (c) comparing locations of the probable sub-grids to finalize locations of the sub-grids for each region. 51. The computer readable medium of claim 50, the sub-grid regions in the digital image each containing exactly one of the plurality of sub-grids. 52. The computer readable medium of claim 50, step (b) comprising steps of: (ba) identifying rows and columns of the spots in each region to form a set of candidate sub-grids in each region; and (bb) selecting for each region a probable sub-grid from the set of candidate sub-grids in each region. 53. The computer readable medium of claim 50, said acts further comprising determining a performance at identifying each of the plurality of sub-grids in the digital image. 54. The computer readable medium of claim 50, the chemical materials being nucleic acid species and the array of signals being a microarray of signals associated with the nucleic acid species. 