A wheelchair navigation system having motorized wheelchair which is powered by at least one onboard battery, and a battery charger. The navigation system also has a filter-based estimator with interface software running that is operated on an onboard laptop computer. Dual cameras, proximity sensors, microphones, and rotation sensors for the wheels are mounted to the wheelchair. Small markers are placed on the walls of a location or room. The navigation system uses the proximity sensors, rotation sensors and cameras in conjunction with the specialized software to determine where objects or impediments are located in the room and thereby redirect the path of the wheelchair so as to avoid such objects. The wheelchair is walked through the marked location thereby `teaching` various paths which are recorded in the computer and recalled later when the wheelchair is in use.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wheelchair navigation system comprising: a motorized wheelchair; at least one computer having software that performs navigational functions, teaching functions, obstacle detection, supervisory tasks, and diagnostic analysis; at least one camera; at least one proximity sensor; at least one rotation sensor; at least one visual sensor; at least one visual marker; and an input device including one a switch and a microphone, said input device being operatively connected to a control system, said control system controlling operation of said wheelchair by selection of a taught destination from a plurality of taught destinations corresponding to a specific position and orientation of said wheelchair at a predetermined given location of said wheelchair, wherein said at least one rotation sensor, said at least one visual sensor and said input device are interfaced to said at least one computer which runs specialized software. 2. A wheelchair navigation system according to claim 1, wherein: said at least one computer has a screen with a visual display. 3. A wheelchair navigation system according to claim 1, wherein: said computer receives information from said cameras and said sensors, processes said information and determines a path of travel for said wheelchair from such information. 4. A wheelchair navigation system according to claim 1, wherein: said computer is voice activated. 5. A wheelchair navigation system according to claim 1, wherein: said computer is manually operated. 6. A wheelchair navigation system comprising: a motorized wheelchair; at least one battery; a battery charger; a filter-based estimator with interface software; a computer including a control system, said control system controlling operation of said wheelchair by selection of a taught destination from a plurality of taught destinations corresponding to a specific position and orientation of said wheelchair at a predetermined given location of said wheelchair; at least one camera; at least one proximity sensor; at least one microphone; at least one rotation sensor for the wheels, said at least one sensor is mounted on the wheelchair; and a plurality of visual markers capable of being placed on the walls of a specific location. 7. A wheelchair navigation system according to claim 6, wherein: said at least one computer has a screen with a visual display that is visible to a person using the wheelchair. 8. A wheelchair navigation system according to claim 6, wherein: said computer receives information from said cameras and said sensors, processes said information and determines a path of travel for said wheelchair from such information. 9. A wheelchair navigation system according to claim 6, wherein: said computer is voice activated. 10. A wheelchair navigation system according to claim 6, wherein: said computer is manually operated. 11. A method of navigation using a powered wheelchair comprising the steps of: providing a motorized wheelchair, said wheelchair being powered by at least one onboard battery, and a battery charger and having dual cameras, proximity sensors, a microphone and rotation sensors for sensing wheel rotation; providing a filter-based estimator with interface software running that is operated on at least one computer including a control system, said control system controlling operation of said wheelchair by selection of a taught destination from a plurality of taught destinations corresponding to a specific position and orientation of said wheelchair at a predetermined given location of said wheelchair; providing markers at various locations within a specific area; teaching at least one path by walking said wheelchair through said at least one path prior to said wheelchair navigation system being used for independent travel, and recording said at least one path in said computer; sensing said markers with said proximity sensors and said cameras; providing information about said markers from said proximity sensors and said cameras to said at least one computer; operating said software to determine the location of various objects within a location; creating a path for said wheelchair to avoid said objects with said software; recalling said at least one taught path; and directing said wheelchair on said path via said software. 12. A method of navigation using a powered wheelchair according to claim 11, further comprising the step of: operating said computer via voice control. 13. A method of navigation using a powered wheelchair according to claim 11, further comprising the step of: operating said computer manually. 