A self-teaching robot arm positioning method that compensates for support structure component alignment offset entails the use of a component emulating fixture preferably having mounting features that are matable to support structure mounting elements. Robot arm mechanism motor angular position data measured relative to component emulating fixture features are substituted into stored mathematical expressions representing robot arm vector motion to provide robot arm position output information. This information indicates whether the actual relative alignment between the robot arm mechanism and a semiconductor wafer carrier is offset from a nominal relative alignment. For manual correction, robot arm mechanism position output information provides the angular offset between the actual and nominal radial distances between the robot arm mechanism shoulder axis and two locating features of the component emulating fixture. Position coordinates for proper alignment by manual repositioning of any misaligned wafer carrier can then be derived. For automatic correction, robot arm mechanism position output information is used to derive a vector trajectory that causes the end effector of the robot arm mechanism to properly access the wafer stored in a misaligned wafer carrier.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a specimen processing system that includes a robot arm mechanism in nominal alignment relative to a specimen holder positioned on a support surface of a support structure and having a clear area through which an end effector reaches to remove a specimen from or place a specimen in or on the specimen holder, the support surface of the support structure having mounting elements and the specimen holder having alignment surface features that are matable to the mounting elements, a method of determining an actual alignment of the robot arm mechanism relative to the specimen holder that differs from the nominal alignment to ensure that the end effector can remove specimens from and place specimens in the holder, comprising: placing a component emulating fixture on the support surface of the support structure, the fixture being matable to the mounting elements to assure the actual alignment position of the specimen holder and including first and second locating features positioned to engage the end effector into extension position; positioning the robot arm mechanism to contact the first locating feature to acquire a first set of robot arm position data; positioning the robot aim mechanism to contact the second locating feature to acquire a second set of robot arm mechanism position data; and using the first and second sets of robot arm mechanism position data in conjunction with robot arm mechanism equation of motion to determine whether alignment positioning of the specimen holder relative to the robot arm mechanism represents an offset in the actual alignment in relation to the nominal alignment. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing the first and second position coordinate information in a form usable for manual relative repositioning of the specimen holder and the robot arm mechanism to correct for the alignment offset. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising reprogramming the robot arm mechanism to control its trajectory to eliminate position error caused by the alignment offset. 4. The method of claim 1 in which the first and second locating features extend upwardly of the fixture and are of different heights so as to allow the robot arm mechanism to access and engage both of them. 5. The method of claim 1 in which the first and second locating features are offset along different radial paths so as to allow a robot arm mechanism to access and engage both of them. 6. The method of claim 1 in which one of the first and second locating features is located at the true center of a wafer stored in the specimen holder when positioned correctly on the support structure. 7. The method of claim 1 in which the locating features are of cylindrical shape and the end effector has a distal fork-shaped end that engages each of the locating features in a manner that self centers on the locating feature. 8. In a specimen processing system that includes a robot arm mechanism in nominal alignment relative to a specimen holder positioned on a support surface of a support structure and having a clear area through which an end effector reaches to remove a specimen from or place a specimen in or on the specimen holder, a method of determining an actual alignment of the robot arm mechanism relative to the specimen bolder that differs from the nominal alignment to ensure that the end effector can remove specimens from and place specimens in the holder, comprising: placing a component emulating fixture on the support surface of the support structure, the fixture being adapted to assume the actual alignment position of the specimen holder and including first and second locating features positioned to engage the end effector into extension position; positioning the robot arm mechanism to contact the first locating feature to acquire a first set of robot arm position data; positioning the robot arm mechanism to contact the second locating feature to acquire a second set of robot arm mechanism position data; and using the first and second sets of robot arm mechanism position data in conjunction with robot arm mechanism equations of motion to determine whether alignment positioning of the specimen holder relative to the robot arm mechanism represents an offset in the actual alignment in relation to the nominal alignment. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising providing the first and second position coordinate information in a form usable for manual relative repositioning of the specimen holder and the robot arm mechanism to correct for the alignment offset. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising reprogramming the robot arm mechanism to control its trajectory to eliminate position error caused by the alignment offset. 11. The method of claim 8 in which the first and second locating features extend upwardly of the fixture and are of different heights so as to allow the robot arm mechanism to access and engage both of them. 12. The method of claim 8 in which the fixture is adapted to assume the actual position of the specimen holder by an indirect alignment technique. 13. The method of claim 12 in which the indirect alignment technique entails the use of a video camera. 