The present invention provides a system for performing a desired operation in a wellbore. The system contains a downhole tool which includes a mobility platform that is electrically operated to move the downhole tool in the wellbore and an end work device to perform the desired work. The downhole tool also includes an imaging device to provide pictures of the downhole environment. The data from the downhole tool is communicated to a surface computer, which controls the operation of the tool and displays pictures of the tool environment. Novel tactile sensors for use as imaging devices are also provided. In an alternative embodiment the downhole tool is composed of a base unit and a detachable work unit. The work unit includes the mobility platform, imaging device and the end work device. The tool is conveyed into the wellbore by a conveying member. The work unit detaches itself from the base unit, travels to the desired location in the wellbore and performs a predefined operation according to programmed instruction stored in the work unit. The work unit returns to the base unit, where it transfers data relating to the operation and can be recharged for further operation.
Claims What Is claimed is: 1. A tool for performing a desired operation in a wellbore, comprising: A. a mobility device carried by the tool for moving the tool in the wellbore, said mobility device being driven by an electrically operated device and including: i. a body having a plurality of reduced-dimensioned, spaced apart portions on an outer surface of the body; and ii. a separate brace at each of the reduced-dimensioned portions, each such brace having at least one movable member adapted to move between a first collapsed position and a second radially extended position, each said movable member urging against the inside of the wellbore when it is in its extended position; and iii. a first movable magnet within the tool body adjacent each of the braces and a corresponding second movable magnet in the reduced portion, wherein the movement of the first magnet in the tool causes its corresponding magnet in the reduced dimensioned space to move, thereby causing the movable member of the brace to move between its collapsed and extended position. 2. The tool according to claim 1, further having an electric motor associated with each first moveable magnet within the body for causing the first magnet to move between first and second positions. 3. The tool according to claim 2, further having a screw-type mechanism associated with each of the first magnets and operated by the electric motor associated with such first magnet to cause the first magnet to move between its first and second position. 4. A tool for performing a desired operation in a wellbore, comprising: A. a mobility device for moving the tool in the wellbore, said mobility device having, i. a body, ii. a plurality of braces, each brace having at least one movable member between a first collapsed position and a second radially extended position, each said movable member adapted to urge against an interior surface of the wellbore when said movable member is in its extended position, iii. a device carried by the tool for moving each of the movable members between their respective first collapsed positions and the second radially extended positions, wherein the movement of the movable members between their respective collapsed and extended positions causes the tool to move within the wellbore; and iv. an electromagnetic device associated with each said brace to cause the movable member of such brace to move between its first collapsed position and the second, radially extended position; and B. an end work device carried by the tool for performing the desired operation at a selected work site in the wellbore. 5. The tool according to claim 4, wherein each electro-magnetic device includes a first movable magnet inside the tool and a second movable magnet on the outside of the tool. 6. The tool according to claim 4, wherein the electromagnetic devices move their respective movable members in unison. 