The present invention relates to electroactive polymers that are pre-strained to improve conversion from electrical to mechanical energy. When a voltage is applied to electrodes contacting a pre-strained polymer, the polymer deflects. This deflection may be used to do mechanical work. The pre-strain improves the mechanical response of an electroactive polymer. The present invention also relates to actuators including an electroactive polymer and mechanical coupling to convert deflection of the polymer into mechanical work. The present invention further relates to compliant electrodes that conform to the shape of a polymer. The present invention provides methods for fabricating electromechanical devices including one or more electroactive polymers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrode for use with an electroactive polymer, the electrode comprising: a compliant portion in contact with the electroactive polymer, wherein the compliant portion comprises one or more regions of high conductivity and one or more regions of low conductivity, and wherein the compliant portion is capable of deflection with a maximum linear strain of at least about 50 percent. 2. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the regions of high conductivity include a set of metal traces. 3. The electrode of claim 2 wherein the metal traces form one or more specialized active regions. 4. An electrode for use with an electroactive polymer, the electrode comprising: a compliant portion in contact with the electroactive polymer, wherein the electrode comprises a colloidal suspension, and wherein the compliant portion is capable of deflection with a maximum linear strain of at least about 50 percent. 5. An electrode for use with an electroactive polymer, the electrode comprising: a compliant portion in contact with the electroactive polymer, wherein the electrode comprises a conductive grease, and wherein the compliant portion is capable of deflection with a maximum linear strain of at least about 50 percent. 6. An electrode for use with an electroactive polymer, the electrode comprising: a compliant portion in contact with the electroactive polymer, wherein the electrode comprises a mixture of ionically conductive materials, and wherein the compliant portion is capable of deflection with a maximum linear strain of at least about 50 percent. 7. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the compliant portion is capable of deflection with a maximum linear strain of at least about 100 percent. 8. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the one or more regions of high conductivity comprise patterned metal traces. 9. The electrode of claim 8 wherein the one or more regions of low conductivity comprises a charge distribution layer that has a conductance greater than the electroactive polymer and less than the conductance of the patterned metal traces. 10. The electrode of claim 8 wherein the patterned metal traces are offset from patterned metal traces included in a second electrode on an opposing side of the electroactive polymer. 11. The electrode of claim 8 wherein the patterned metal traces are configured to allow expansion and contraction of the electroactive polymer in multiple directions. 12. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the one or more regions of low conductivity has a surface resistivity in the range of about 10.sup.6 ohms to about 10.sup.11 ohms. 13. The electrode of claim 4 wherein the electrode is patterned to form an active area according to the geometry of the electrode. 14. The electrode of claim 13 wherein the electrode is patterned by spraying the colloidal suspension onto the electroactive polymer. 15. The electrode of claim 4 wherein the colloidal suspension comprises one of graphite, silver and gold. 16. The electrode of claim 4 wherein the colloidal suspension comprises a silicone that improves adhesion between the electroactive polymer and the electrode. 17. The electrode of claim 4 wherein the colloidal suspension comprises a conductive grease. 18. The electrode of claim 17 wherein the colloidal suspension comprises a conductive silicone. 19. The electrode of claim 18 wherein the colloidal suspension is cured to form a conductive semi-solid. 20. The electrode of claim 5 wherein the conductive grease comprises carbon particles. 21. The electrode of claim 5 wherein the compliant portion is capable of deflection with a maximum linear strain of at least about 100 percent. 22. The electrode of claim 6 wherein the mixture of ionically conductive materials comprises a water-based emulsion. 