A method of creating and using a polishing substrate having a coating layer that includes providing a substrate having a predetermined pattern disposed on a surface of the substrate and coating the surface of the substrate with an abrasive to form a coated substrate conforming to the predetermined pattern is described. In addition, an apparatus enabling preparation and use of a fixed abrasive polishing member is described that includes a patterned substrate, an abrasive coating a surface of the patterned substrate and a vacuum deposition chamber in which the abrasive is applied to the surface of the substrate. In addition, rather than a fixed abrasive, non-abrasive material may be applied to the surface of the patterned substrate, in which case, a conventional slurry may be used in planarization of an applied semiconductor wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of preparation and use of a polishing substrate to polish a semiconductor wafer comprising: providing a substrate having a substrate pattern on a surface of the substrate; coating the surface of the substrate with a coating layer; transferring the substrate to a chemical-mechanical polishing chamber subsequent to coating the surface of the substrate with the coating layer; planarizing a semiconductor wafer using the coated substrate transferring the substrate to a cleaning chamber subsequent to planarizing at least one semiconductor wafer; cleaning the substrate by at least removing a remainder of the coating layer from the surface of the substrate; transferring the substrate to a position in which the surface of the substrate is positioned to receive a new coating layer; and coating the surface of the substrate with the new coating layer. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein coating the surface of the substrate with the coating layer comprises vacuum depositing the coating layer on the surface of the substrate. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein coating the surface of the substrate comprises coating the surface of the substrate with a layer that comprises an abrasive/binder mixture. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising subjecting the surface of the substrate coated with the abrasive/binder mixture layer to a curing mechanism to bind the abrasive/binder mixture layer to the surface of the substrate. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting the substrate pattern prior to coating the surface of the substrate with the coating layer such that die-level and wafer-level planarization performance is optimized during planarization of the semiconductor wafer, the pattern being selected from the group consisting of a rectangular pattern, a trapezoidal pattern, a hemispherical pattern, a pillar pattern and a prismatic pattern. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein selecting the substrate pattern comprises selecting the substrate pattern such that an area of the coated layer exposed as a fixed consumable remains constant as abrasive is worn away during a planarization process. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein selecting the substrate pattern comprises selecting the substrate pattern such that the substrate pattern has a height of about 20 .mu.m to about 50 .mu.m and a maximum width of about 100 .mu.m to about 1000 .mu.m. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein coating the substrate with the coating layer comprises coating the substrate with an abrasive layer. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising coating the surface of the substrate with a binder layer prior to coating the surface of the substrate with the abrasive layer. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising subjecting the surface of the substrate coated with the binder layer and abrasive layer to a curing process to bind the abrasive layer to the surface of the substrate. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein coating the substrate with the coating layer comprises coating the substrate with a non-abrasive material layer, wherein the non-abrasive material is suitable for use with an abrasive slurry. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising coating the surface of the substrate with a binder layer prior to coating the surface of the substrate with the non-abrasive material layer. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising subjecting the surface of the substrate coated with the binder layer and non-abrasive material layer to a curing process to bind the non-abrasive material layer to the surface of the substrate. 14. A method of preparation and use of a polishing substrate to polish a semiconductor wafer comprising: providing a substrate hating a substrate pattern on a surface of the substrate; coating the surface of the substrate with an abrasive having particles of 0.1 .mu.m to 3.0 .mu.m; transferring the substrate to a chemical-mechanical polishing chamber subsequent to coating the surface of the substrate with the abrasive; planarizing a semiconductor wafer using the coated substrate; transferring the substrate to a cleaning chamber subsequent to planarizing at least one semiconductor wafer; cleaning the substrate by at least removing a remainder of the abrasive from the surface of the substrate; transferring the substrate to a position in which the surface of the substrate is positioned to receive a new coating of abrasive; and coating the surface of the substrate with the new coating of abrasive. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising coating the surface of the substrate with a binder prior to coating the surface of the substrate with the abrasive. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising subjecting the surface of the substrate coated with the binder and abrasive to a curing process to bind the abrasive to the surface of the substrate. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein coating the surface of the substrate comprises coating the surface of the substrate with an abrasive/binder mixture. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising subjecting the surface of the substrate coated with the abrasive/binder mixture to a curing mechanism to bind the abrasive/binder mixture to the surface of the substrate. 19. The method of claim 14, further comprising selecting the substrate pattern prior to coating the surface of the substrate with the abrasive such that die-level and wafer-level planarization performance is optimized during planarization of the semiconductor wafer, the pattern being selected from the group consisting of a rectangular pattern, a trapezoidal pattern, a hemispherical pattern, a pillar pattern and a prismatic pattern. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein selecting the substrate pattern comprises selecting the substrate pattern such that the substrate pattern has a height of about 20 .mu.m to about 50 .mu.m and a maximum width of about 100 .mu.m to about 1000 .mu.m. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein selecting the substrate pattern comprises selecting the substrate pattern such that the substrate pattern has a density of 60-95%. 22. A method of preparation and use of a polishing substrate to polish a semiconductor wafer comprising: providing a substrate having at least two substrate patterns on a surface of the substrate; coating the surface of the substrate with a coating; transferring the substrate to a chemical-mechanical polishing chamber subsequent to coating the surface of the substrate with the abrasive; planarizing a semiconductor wafer using the coated substrate; transferring the substrate to a cleaning chamber subsequent to planarizing at least one semiconductor wafer; cleaning the substrate by at least removing a remainder of the coating layer from the surface of the substrate; transferring the substrate to a position in which the surface of the substrate is positioned to receive a new coating layer; and coating the surface of the substrate with the new coating layer. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising selecting the substrate patterns prior to coating the surface of the substrate with the coating such that die-level and wafer-level planarization performance is optimized during planarization of the semiconductor wafer, the patterns being selected from the group consisting of a rectangular pattern, a trapezoidal pattern, a hemispherical pattern, a pillar pattern and a prismatic pattern. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein selecting the substrate patterns comprises selecting the substrate patterns such that the substrate patterns have a height of about 20 .mu.m to about 50 .mu.m and a maximum width of about 100 .mu.m to about 1000 .mu.m. 25. The method of claim 22, wherein selecting the substrate patterns comprises selecting the substrate patterns such that the substrate patterns have a combined density of 60-95%. 26. The method of claim 22, wherein coating the surface of the substrate comprises coating the surface of the substrate with an abrasive/binder mixture. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising subjecting the surface of the substrate coated with the abrasive/binder mixture layer to a curing mechanism to bind the abrasive/binder mixture layer to the surface of the substrate. 28. The method of claim 22, wherein coating the substrate with the coating layer comprises coating he substrate with an abrasive layer. 29. The method of claim 28, further comprising coating the surface of the substrate with a binder layer prior to coating the surface of the substrate with the abrasive layer. 30. The method of claim 29, further comprising subjecting the surface of the substrate coated with the binder layer and abrasive layer to a curing process to bind the abrasive layer to the surface of the substrate. 31. The method of claim 22, wherein coating the substrate with the coating layer comprises coating the substrate with a non-abrasive material layer, wherein the non-abrasive material is suitable for use with an abrasive slurry. 32. The method of claim 31, further comprising coating the surface of the substrate with a binder layer prior to coating the surface of the substrate with the non-abrasive material layer. 33. The method of claim 32, further comprising subjecting the surface of the substrate coated with the binder layer and non-abrasive material layer to a curing process to bind the non-abrasive material layer to the surface of the substrate. 