The invention describes a method of controlling a welding unit (1) and a current source (2), in which various welding parameters, such as a welding current, a welding wire diameter, a welding method etc., for example, can be set by a user from an input and/or output device (22). The welding unit (1) and the current source (2) are then activated by the control device (4) in accordance with the predetermined welding parameters, different desired values being stored in a memory device for the different welding parameters. The desired values for at least one welding parameter of a welding method are stored in the memory device for the minimum and maximum values in the form of a minimum and maximum curve and when a welding parameter falling between the minimum and maximum values or curves is retrieved or set, the control device (4) determines the other desired values of the other welding parameters of this welding process by means of a computing method, in particular by means of an interpolation calculation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Method of controlling a welding unit and a current source, in which various welding parameters can be set by a user via an input or output device, the set welding parameters being applied to a control device, after which the welding unit and the current source are activated by the control device in accordance with the pre-set welding parameters, various desired values for the different welding parameters being stored in a memory device, read by the control device and displayed on the input or output device when a welding method is retrieved, the desired values for at least one welding parameter of a welding method being stored in the memory device for the minimum and maximum values in the form of a minimum and maximum curve to create a three dimensional characteristic curve and, when a welding parameter falling between the minimum and maximum values or curves is retrieved or set, the control device determines the other desired values of the other welding parameters of this welding methods by means of an interpolation calculation. 2. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the threshold value for the possible welding settings on the welding unit are formed from the desired values for the stored minimum and maximum values or curves. 3. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the welding unit is configured independently and automatically by the control device on the basis of the determined other desired values. 4. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the minimum and maximum values or curves are derived from or associated with other welding parameters, depending on a welding parameter. 5. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein in order to calculate the individual desired values via the input or output device, at least one welding parameter is pre-set, the other welding parameters of the minimum and maximum values or curves being adjusted thereto. 6. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the user edits the calculated desired values via the input or output unit. 7. Control device for a welding unit and a current source, comprising an input or output device connected to the control device, a memory device for storing operating data and a power component, desired values being stored in the memory device of the welding unit for the purpose of setting up a welding parameter or a welding process, the desired values being adjustable via the input or output device when retrieved or activated, and the desired values being made up of a plurality of minimum and maximum curves to create a three-dimensional characteristic curve. 8. Control device as claimed in claim 7, wherein different minimum and maximum curves for different welding processes are stored in the memory device. 9. Control device as claimed in claim 7, wherein the minimum and maximum curves are made up of several welding parameters. 10. Control device as claimed in claim 7, wherein the desired values of the minimum and maximum curves form the threshold values of the welding settings of the welding unit. 11. Control device as claimed in claim 7, wherein a minimum and maximum desired value for a welding parameter is stored in the memory device for the minimum and maximum curves, other welding parameters being derived from or associated with this welding parameter. 