A method of stamping and punching at several stations, an opening in a vehicle rood panel to provide for sunroof installation is described. A preformed recess is stamped into the top section of the panel to define a perimeter for a sunroof opening. The stamping of the preform comprises locating the roof panel in a stamping press beneath a press die where the die is aligned with the perimeter of the desired position for the sunroof opening. The preform recess is stamped in the panel where the preform is characterized by having a first bend which defines the opening perimeter and comprises rounded corner portions interconnected a front, rear and two side edges. A downwardly extending flange which becomes a sidewall of the sunroof opening is provided and has a length at least equal to the depth of a sealed portion of the sunroof panel and a second bend extending opposite to the first bend for interconnecting flange to the base portion of the recess. At the subsequent stations the underside surface of the flange of the preform is used to locate the panel for further processing. Preferably, at a subsequent processing station an apparatus is provided for bending lip portions of the depending flange to facilitate insertion of the sunroof. The apparatus has floating backup blocks and stacked stripper block and die block to locate the opening and effect bending of the flange without distorting the precise location of the flanges to ensure a seal with the sunroof panel installation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a method for stamping and punching at several stations an opening in a vehicle roof panel for a sunroof installation, the initial operation of stamping a preform recess in a top section of said panel to define a perimeter for a sunroof opening, said initial operation comprising: i) locating said roof panel in a stamping press beneath a press die, said panel being fixed relative to said die to align die perimeter with a predetermined position for said sunroof opening perimeter in said roof panel; ii) stamping said preform recess in said roof panel to provide said perimeter for a sunroof opening, said preform being characterized by having a first bend which defines said opening perimeter comprising rounded corner portions interconnecting a front edge, a rear edge and two side edges, a downwardly extending flange which becomes a sidewall of said sunroof opening, said flange extending for a length at least equal to a depth of a seal portion of sunroof panel perimeter and a second bend extending opposite to said first bend for interconnecting said flange to base plate portion of said recess, said flange sloping at an angle from said first bend toward said base plate, and iii) at subsequent stations using an underside surface of said sloping flange to locate said panel for further processing. 2. In a method of claim 1, punching a cut out in said preform base plate portion which defines a lip portion along each of said flanges and defines an arcuate cut out at each corner portion which extends along said rounded corner portions of said preform, each arcuate cut out including a secondary relief cut out extending into said second bend to facilitate further flange bending at subsequent stations without distorting roof panel perimeter edge which defines said sunroof opening. 3. In a method of claim 2, at a subsequent station the step of bending downwardly the flange portion and adjoining lip portion to provide thereby at least a flange portion about the entire periphery of said sunroof opening, said first bend of said preform defining precisely a perimeter edge of said sunroof opening and said flange defining precisely a sidewall of said sunroof opening for engaging a seal portion of sunroof panel perimeter. 4. In a method of claim 3, at a subsequent station assembling said roof panel with a reinforcement ring for said sunroof opening perimeter, said assembly comprising lowering said panel downwardly onto said reinforcement ring whereby said downwardly depending flange and adjoining lip portions guide friction fitting of ring interior opening flange onto said underside surface of said flange adjacent said first bend. 5. In a method of claim 4, at a subsequent station bending said lip portions to slant outwardly of said sunroof opening and under said reinforcement ring interior flange to facilitate insertion of a sunroof panel assembly into said opening. 6. In a method of claim 5, applying an adhesive to a rear portion of said reinforcing ring to secure said rear portion of said ring to said rear edge of said roof panel. 