A radiation curable, flexible, paintable composition produced from epoxy compounds and one or more polyol(s) has enhanced durability, thick and thin film adhesion, resistance to mold growth and dimensional changes while reducing solvent emissions. The composition can reduce, if not eliminate, runs and drips during the thermal bake cycles which are associated with using conventional compositions in automotive applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing a cured coating on a substrate comprising at least one member selected from the group consisting of metal, wood, concrete and cement from a composition comprising a combination comprising at least one epoxy functional compound, greater than about 0.1 wt % and less than 20 wt % of at least one of ethyl vinyl acetate and copolymers thereof, and at least one photoinitiator wherein said method comprises: (a) exposing at least one component of the composition to a source of radiation; and (b) applying the composition onto a substrate thereby forming a coating upon the substrate. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the substrate comprises metal and the coating overlies a joint between at least two metal substrates. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the joint is formed by welding together at least two automotive body components. 4. The method according to claim 1 further comprising (c) heating the coated substrate to a temperature sufficient to improve adhesion of the composition to the substrate. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the epoxy compound comprises a cycloaliphatic epoxy compound. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the combination further comprises a polyether polyol, a polyester polyol or mixture thereof. 7. The composition according to claim 1 wherein the photoinitiator comprises a UV photoinitiator. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein the radiation comprises ultraviolet radiation. 9. The method according to claim 1 wherein the photoinitiator comprises an onium salt. 10. A composition comprising a combination comprising: (a) about 40 to about 90 wt. % of at least one epoxy functional compound; (b) at least one member selected from the group consisting of ethyl vinyl acetate and copolymers thereof; (c) at least one polyol wherein the ratio of said at least one epoxy functional compound to said at least one polyol is greater than 1:1 to about 2:1; and (d) al least one photoinitiator. 11. The composition according to claim 10 wherein the epoxy compound comprises a cycloaliphatic compound. 12. The composition according to claim 10 wherein the polyol comprises a polyester polyol, polyether polyol or mixture thereof. 13. The composition according to claim 10 wherein the photoinitiator comprises a UV photoinitiator. 14. The composition according to claim 13 wherein the photoinitiator comprises an onium salt. 15. The composition according to claim 10 further comprising (d) a thickening agent. 16. The composition according to claim 15 wherein the thickening agent comprises silica. 17. The composition according to claim 15 wherein the thickening agent is present in amount effective to provide a thixotropic composition. 18. The composition according to claim 15 further comprising (e) at least one monomeric material. 19. The composition according to claim 18 further comprising (f) at least one gelling agent. 20. The composition according to claim 10 wherein the ratio of epoxy compound to polyol is about 1:1 to about 2:1. 21. A method of providing a self supporting article or layer comprising: (a) providing a first component comprising at least one epoxy functional compound, find a second component comprising at least one acid source, with at least one of the first component and second component comprising ethyl vinyl acetate and copolymers thereof, and (b) combining the first and second components so as to react the epoxy functional compound with the acid source. 22. The method according to claim 21 further comprising (c) introducing the reaction product of (b) onto a substrate. 23. The method according to claim 21 wherein both of the first and second components further comprises at least one polyol. 24. A composition for forming a self-supporting article or layer comprising: (a) a first component comprising at least one epoxy functional compound, and (c) a second component comprising at least one acid source, wherein at least one of the first and second component comprises ethyl vinyl acetate and copolymers thereof. 25. The method of claim 1 wherein said exposing is sufficient to increase the viscosity of the composition. 26. A composition for forming a self-supporting article or layer comprising: (a) a first component comprising at least one epoxy compound, and (b) a second component comprising at least one acid source, wherein at least one of the first and second component comprises at least one polyol and at least one member selected from the group consisting of ethyl vinyl acetate and copolymers thereof. 27. The composition according to claim 26 wherein both the first and second components further comprise at least one polyol. 28. A composition according to claim 26 wherein the polyol comprises a polyester polyol, the epoxy compound comprises a cycloaliphatic epoxy compound, and the acid comprises phosphoric acid. 29. The composition of claim 10 wherein said at least one epoxy functional compound comprises at least one cycloaliphatic epoxy and said at least one polyol comprises at least one polyether polyol, and further comprising silica. 30. The composition of claim 10 further comprises at least one member from the group consisting of acrylates, caprolactones, and polycarbonates. 31. The method of claim 1 wherein said substrate comprises at least one member from the group consisting of e-coated articles, brake rotors, fasteners, end-fittings and couplings. 32. The method of claim 1 wherein said applying comprises at least one method from the group consisting of spraying and immersing. 33. The composition of claim 10 wherein said composition further comprises at least one member chosen from the group consisting of silicones, urethanes, silanes and hydroxyl or caboxyl modified elastomers. 34. The composition of claim 10 wherein said composition is substantially free of polyvinyl chloride and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). 35. The method of claim 3 wherein said joint comprises a roof ditch. 36. A composition comprising a combination comprising: (a) at least one epoxy functional compound; (b) at least one member selected from the group consisting of ethyl vinyl acetate and copolymers thereof; (c) greater than 40 wt. % of at least one polyol; and (d) at least one photoinitiator. 37. The composition of claim 36 further comprising at least one hydroxyl or caboxyl modified element. 38. A method for sealing a weld between at least two metallic substrates with a composition comprising a combination comprising at least one epoxy functional compound, at least one of ethyl vinyl acetate and copolymers thereof, at least one polyol and at least one photoinitiator wherein said method comprises: (a) applying the composition onto the substrate, (b) exposing at least a portion of the composition to at least one source of radiation; (c) heating at least a portion of the radiation exposed composition. 39. The method of claim 38 wherein the substrate comprises automotive components and said welded connection comprises a roof ditch. 40. The method of claim 38 wherein said source of radiation comprises UV. 41. The method of claim 38 wherein said polyol comprises at least one polyether polyol. 42. The method of claim 39 wherein said composition further comprises silica. 43. The composition of claim 26 wherein said second component further comprises at least one of ethyl vinyl acetate and copolymers thereof. 44. A method for providing a coating on a substrate comprising at least one member selected from the group consisting of metal, wood, concrete and cement from a composition comprising a first component and a second component wherein at least one of said first and second components comprise at least one epoxy functional compound, at least one polyol, at least one thickener, and at least one photoinitiator wherein said method comprises: (a) exposing at least one of said first and second components to a source of UV radiation; (b) combining the first and second components; and (c) applying the combined first and second components onto the substrate thereby forming a coating upon the substrate. 45. The method according to claim 21 further comprising applying the first and second components onto a substrate comprising at least one member selected from the group consisting of metal, wood, concrete and cement. 