A handle module actuates handles of a user interface for various applications, including minimally invasive surgery ("MIS"). A modified MIS tool handle has two shafts that translate relative to each other upon relative motion of the handles. They also can rotate relative to each other. A housing engages both. The first is translationally fixed and rotatably free relative to the housing. An actuator actuates rotation of the first shaft. The second shaft is coupled to the housing such that it is rotationally fixed about and translatable along the axis of its elongation. The second shaft is fixed to a cartridge that is a linear capstan and translates relative to the housing, in response to relative translation of the shafts. A jaw action actuator is coupled to the cartridge through a cable drive, and can actuate the relative translation of the shafts, and thus, the handles. The jaw action actuator can actuate jaw action of a tool in a tool environment, either virtual, or actual. The first actuator can actuate rotation of the tool in a tool environment. The handle module can actuate both the jaw action of a jawed tool, as well as rotation around the long axis of the shafts. The actuation may also provide force feedback, for use as a simulator, or telerobotic master. A base mechanical interface can be added, that provides additional degrees of freedom, to enable simulation and force feedback that represent MIS insertion, pitch and yaw around the insertion point.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. A haptic apparatus to interface a human user with a tool environment through the interchange of force, the apparatus comprising: a. a user contact element for physically contacting a body member of the user, the contact element comprising a pair of first and second contact members that are movable relative to each other; b. a first elongated member that is translationally fixed to the first contact member; c. a second elongated member that is parallel with the first elongated member, and that is coupled to the second contact member, such that the second elongated member is translatable relative to the first elongated member upon relative motion of the first and second contact members, the second elongated member further being rotatable relative to the first elongated member upon rotation of the first contact member relative to the second elongated member; d. a first actuator, which is coupled to both of the first and second elongated members, such that upon actuation the first actuator actuates relative translation of the first and second elongated members; and e. a second actuator, which is coupled to both of the elongated members, such that upon actuation, the second actuator actuates relative rotation of the first and second elongated members about an axis parallel to their axes of elongation. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, the first and second elongated members comprising substantially concentric shafts, the first being a hollow outer shaft that surrounds the second, which is thus an inner shaft. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, the contact element comprising a two handled element, with the first and second contact members constituting the handles, being rotatable relative to each other about an axis that is perpendicular to the axis of elongation of the first and second shafts. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, the contact element comprising a two handled element, with the first and second contact members constituting the handles, being translatable relative to each other. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, the contact element comprising a two-handled minimally invasive surgery handpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, the first contact member comprising a loop handle that is fixed to the first elongated member. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, the first contact member comprising a wheel that is fixed to the first elongated member, and that is coupled to a loop handle such that the wheel is rotatable around an axis that is parallel to the axis of elongation of the first elongated member, relative to the loop handle, and fixed translationally relative to the loop handle, such that the first elongated member is rotatable relative to the second contact member and the loop handle of the first contact member by rotating the wheel about its axis of rotation. 8. The apparatus of claim 2, each actuator having a nominally stationary part and a nominally movable part, the apparatus further comprising a housing, to which the stationary part of both actuators are attached, the outer elongated member being rotatably coupled and translatably fixed to the housing and the inner elongated member being rotatably fixed and translatably coupled to the housing. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, the first actuator comprising a rotary motor, having a stator and a rotor, wherein the rotor is coupled to the inner elongated member such that actuation of the first actuator actuates relative translation between the inner elongated member and the housing, and thus, between the inner and the outer elongated members. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the coupling between the rotor of the first actuator and the inner elongated member comprises a cable transmission. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the cable transmission comprises a cartridge that is fixed to the inner elongated member, and that is translatably coupled to slide along an axis, relative to the housing, and that is coupled by the cable transmission to the first actuator. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, the axis along which the cartridge is slidable being substantially parallel to the axis of elongation of the elongated members. 13. The apparatus of claim 9, the first actuator having a first rotor axis, and being arranged with the first rotor axis substantially perpendicular to the first elongated member. 14. The apparatus of claim 8, the second actuator comprising a rotary motor, having a second stator and a second rotor, wherein the second rotor is coupled to the outer elongated member, such that the second actuator actuates relative rotation between the outer elongated member and the housing, and thus between the outer elongated member and the inner elongated member. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, the coupling between the second rotor and the outer elongated member comprising a cable transmission, that comprises a cable and a drum. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, the second actuator having a rotor axis, and being arranged with its rotor axis substantially parallel to the first elongated member. 17. The apparatus of claim 14, the first and second actuators each having a rotor axis, and being arranged with their respective rotor axes substantially perpendicular to each other. 18. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a base mechanical interface unit that comprises: a. an interunit link that is fixed to the housing; b. a powered base linkage that couples the interunit link to a base foundation, with the interunit link being movable through at least five degrees of freedom relative to the base foundation, whereby the powered base linkage is arranged, upon activation, to actuate the interunit link and thus the housing, with respect to at least three degrees of freedom of motion relative to the base foundation. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, the powered base linkage comprising at least three actuators that are rigidly connected to the base foundation. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, the powered base linkage comprising at least three actuators, at least two of which are coupled movably to the base foundation, to act, in part as counterbalance for the linkage between the actuators and the interunit link. 21. The apparatus of claim 18, the powered base linkage comprising a tip actuated linkage. 22. The apparatus of claim 18, the powered base linkage comprising a pivot actuated linkage. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a displacement sensor arranged upon activation to generate a signal that corresponds to the relative translational displacement between the first and second elongated members. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a displacement sensor arranged upon activation to generate a signal that corresponds to the relative rotational displacement between the first and second elongated members. 25. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising first and second displacement sensors arranged upon activation to sense the relative translational and rotational displacement, respectively, between the first and second elongated members, and to generate signals that correspond thereto, the first and second sensors being coupled to a controller that is coupled to the first and second actuators, the controller further arranged, upon activation, to control the first and second actuators based, in part, upon the signals from the displacement sensors. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, the controller configured to actuate the first actuator to present forces to a user engaging the contact members that simulate minimally invasive surgery tool jaws urged against a resisting force. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, the controller configured to actuate the first actuator to present forces to a user engaging the contact members that simulate minimally invasive surgery tool gripper jaws opening against a resisting force. 28. The apparatus of claim 26, the controller configured to actuate the first actuator to present forces to a user engaging the contact members that simulate minimally invasive surgery tool gripper jaws closing against a resisting force. 29. The apparatus of claim 26, the tool environment comprising a slave device that is configured to be operated by the haptic interface apparatus as a master device, the apparatus further comprising: a. a controller coupled to the slave device, configured upon activation to control its motions; and b. a communications channel, coupling the controller for the master device to the controller for the slave device. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, the slave robot comprising a minimally invasive surgery apparatus for use upon a subject, having an end effector with two actuated members that are movable relative to each other under actuated control, and which contact the subject in use. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, the actuated end effector members further being rotatable together around an axis under actuated control. 32. The apparatus of claim 30, the controller further configured to: a. receive signals through the communications channel from the slave device that correspond to any force that the actuated end effector members experience if and contacting the subject while actuated to move relative to each other; and b. actuate the first actuator to actuate relative rotation of the user contact members to present a force to a user in contact with the user contact members that corresponds to any such force that the end effector members experience upon moving relative to each other. 33. The apparatus of claim 30, the controller further configured to: a. receive signals from the communications channel from the slave robot that correspond to any force that the actuated end effector members experience if contacting the subject while actuated to rotate together; and b. actuate the second actuator to actuate rotation of the first elongated member relative to the second elongated member to present a force to a user in contact with the user contact element, which corresponds to any such force that the end effector members experience upon rotating together. 34. The apparatus of claim 25, the controller configured to actuate the first actuator to present forces to a user engaging the contact members that simulate minimally invasive surgery tool scissor jaws cutting through an object. 35. The apparatus of claim 25, the controller configured to actuate the first actuator to present forces to a user engaging the contact members that are proportional to their relative velocity, thereby simulating a damping factor relative to their motion. 36. The apparatus of claim 25, the controller configured to actuate the first actuator to present forces to a user engaging the contact members that are proportional to their displacement from a reference location, thereby simulating a spring factor relative to their displacement. 37. A haptic apparatus to interface a human user with a tool environment through the interchange of force, the apparatus comprising: a. a user contact element for physically contacting a body member of the user, the contact element comprising a two-handled minimally invasive surgery handpiece with a pair of first and second loop handles that are movable relative to each other; b. a first, outer elongated member that is translationally fixed to the first loop handle; c. a second, inner elongated member that is concentric with and inside the first elongated member, and that is coupled to the second loop handle, such that the inner elongated member is translatable relative to the outer elongated member upon relative motion of the two loop handles, the outer elongated member further being rotatable relative to the inner elongated member upon rotation of the first loop handle relative to the inner elongated member; d. an actuator, having a stator and a rotor, which actuator is coupled to both of the outer and inner elongated members, such that upon actuation the actuator actuates relative translation of the inner and outer elongated members; and e. a housing, to which the stator is attached, the outer elongated member being rotatably coupled and translatably fixed to the housing and the inner elongated member being rotatably fixed and translatably coupled to the housing wherein the rotor is coupled to the inner elongated member such that actuation of the actuator actuates relative translation between the inner elongated member and the housing, and thus, between the inner and the outer elongated members. 38. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the coupling between the rotor and the inner elongated member comprises a cable transmission having a cartridge that is fixed to the inner elongated member, and that is translationally coupled to slide along an axis, relative to the housing, the translation of the cartridge being actuated by the actuator. 39. The apparatus of claim 38, the actuator having a rotor axis, and being arranged with the rotor axis substantially perpendicular to the outer elongated member. 40. The apparatus of claim 39, further comprising a base mechanical interface unit that comprises: a. an interunit link that is fixed to the housing; b. a powered base linkage that couples the interunit link to a base foundation, with the interunit link being movable through at least six degrees of freedom relative to the base foundation, whereby the powered base linkage is arranged, upon activation, to actuate the interunit link and thus the housing, with respect to at least three degrees of freedom of motion relative to the base foundation. 41. The apparatus of claim 38, further comprising a displacement sensor arranged upon activation to sense the relative translational displacement between the first and second elongated members, and to generate signals that correspond thereto, the displacement sensor being coupled to a controller that is coupled to the actuator, the controller further arranged, upon activation, to control the actuator based, in part, upon the signal from the displacement sensor. 42. The apparatus of claim 41, the controller configured to actuate the actuator to present forces to a user engaging the loop handles that simulate minimally invasive surgery tool jaws urged against a resisting force. 43. A minimally invasive surgery simulator apparatus comprising: a. a handle unit comprising: i. a pair of handles that correspond to handles of a minimally invasive tool; ii. a pair of parallel elongated members that have an axis of elongation, and that translate relative to each other along their axis of elongation and that rotate relative to each other around the axis of elongation, each being coupled to a respective one of the handles; b. a handle actuation module comprising: i. a housing, the first elongated member being rotatably coupled and translatably fixed to the housing and the second elongated member being rotatably fixed and translatably coupled to the housing; ii. a backdrivable first actuator, the stator of which is coupled to the housing, and the moving part of which is coupled to the second elongated member, such that the first actuator actuates relative translation between the pair of elongated members; iii. a sensor that generates a signal that corresponds to translation displacement between the two elongated members; c. a base mechanical interface unit comprising: i. a handle actuation module support, to which the housing is fixed; ii. a base foundation, coupled to the handle actuation module support, such that the handle actuation module is movable through at least three additional Degrees of Freedom relative to the base foundation; iii. a plurality of backdrivable actuators, coupled between the base foundation and the handle actuation module support, such that upon activation, the plurality of actuators actuates motion of the handle actuation module support relative to the base foundation; and iv. a sensor assembly that generates a signal that corresponds to displacement between the handle actuation module support and the base foundation, relative to the at least three additional Degrees of Freedom. 44. The apparatus of claim 43, the handle actuation module further comprising: a. a backdrivable second actuator, the stator of which is coupled to the housing, and the moving part of which is coupled to the first elongated member, such that the second actuator actuates relative rotation between the pair of elongated members; and b. a sensor that generates a signal that corresponds to rotational displacement between the two elongated members. 45. The apparatus of claim 44, further comprising a linear capstan that couples the first actuator to the second elongated member. 46. The apparatus of claim 44, further comprising a cable drive and rotary bearing that couples the second actuator to the first elongated member. 