A methodology of grouping a plurality of leads of a stator is provided. The methodology includes the steps of positioning a lead secured to a first lead securing device to a predetermined position, removing the lead from the first lead securing device, rotating a second lead securing device to a predetermined position, and securing the lead to the second lead securing device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for grouping a plurality of leads of a stator situated on a pallet, the pallet having a rotatable assembly including a plurality of lead securing devices, the method comprising the steps of: positioning one of the plurality of leads secured to a first of the plurality of lead securing devices to a predetermined position; removing the one of the plurality of leads from the first of the plurality of lead securing devices; rotating a second of the plurality of lead securing devices to the predetermined position; and securing the one of the plurality of leads to the second of the plurality of lead securing devices. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of removing the one of the plurality of leads is by way of a robotic device. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of rotating includes the step of engaging the rotatable assembly with a slidable gear assembly having a drive gear for providing rotational force. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the lead securing devices are clips. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the clips include a base portion and a cord securing member. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the cord securing member is folded across a top surface of the base portion to provide a downward force against the top surface for releasably securing items therebetween. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of securing the one of the plurality of leads includes using a robotic device. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein more than one of the plurality of leads is secured under one lead securing device. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein only one of the plurality of leads is secured under one lead securing device. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein a processor determines the predetermined position. 11. A method for grouping a plurality of leads of a stator situated on a pallet, the pallet having a rotatable assembly including a plurality of lead securing devices, the method comprising: automatically removing at least one of a plurality of leads from one of the lead securing devices; automatically securing the at least one of a plurality of leads to a different lead securing device; wherein the lead securing devices are clips, the clips including a base portion and a cord securing member, and the cord securing member being folded across a top surface of the base portion to provide a downward force against the top surface for releasably securing items therebetween; and repeating the steps of removing and securing until the plurality of leads are grouped according to a predetermined grouping protocol. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the predetermined grouping protocol is determined by a computer. 