The invention relates to assay or determining intercellular niacin status in solid tissues. One extracts intracellular pyredine nucleotides, cycles these, in the presence of agents which reduce the pyredine nucleotides and a dye, which reflect the change. Changes in absorbance of the dye molecule permit determination of the niacin status.
Claims We claim: 1. A method to measure intracellular niacin status in a solid tissue sample comprising: a) collecting a solid tissue sample; b) extracting intracellular pyridine nucleotide from the solid tissue sample; c) subjecting said pyridine nucleotide in the sample to a cycling process comprising one or more cycles of: reducing the pyridine nucleotide to a reduced pyridine nucleotide; transferring an electron from the reduced pyridine nucleotide to an electron acceptor dye molecule to produce a change in an absorbance of the electron acceptor dye molecule; d) measuring the change in absorbance of the electron acceptor dye molecule to determine the intracellular niacin status for said solid tissue. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the intracellular pyridine nucleotide is NAD or NADP. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said extracting comprises: a) disrupting cells of said solid tissue sample; b) removing proteins therefrom. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said disrupting comprises treating the whole blood cells with a basic compound and neutralizing the basic compound. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein said disrupting comprises: disrupting the cells by mechanical means; treating the cells with a basic compound; and neutralizing the basic compound. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein said removing comprises: a) acid precipitation of proteins; and b) neutralization of the acid. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the reducing step comprises adding an enzyme and enzyme substrate pair to the whole blood cells to reduce the pyridine nucleotide. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the pyridine nucleotide is NAD, and the enzyme and enzyme substrate pair is a NAD specific enzyme and enzyme substrate pair. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said NAD specific enzyme and enzyme substrate pair is selected from the group consisting of: alcohol dehydrogenase and ethanol; malate dehydrogenase and malate; lactate dehydrogenase and lactate; NAD specific isocitrate dehydrogenase and isocitrate; glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate; and a combination thereof. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the pyridine nucleotide is NADP, and the enzyme and enzyme substrate pair is a NADP specific enzyme and enzyme substrate pair. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said NADP specific enzyme and enzyme substrate pair is selected from the group consisting of: glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and glucose-6 phosphate; 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and 6-phosphogluconate; malate dehydrogenase and malate; NADP specific isocitrate dehydrogenase and isocitrate; and a combination thereof. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the transferring step further comprises: a) transferring an electron from the reduced pyridine nucleotide to an electron transmitter compound; b) transferring an electron from the electron transmitter compound to the electron acceptor dye molecule. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said electron transmitter compound is selected from the group consisting of oxidized phenazine ethosulfate (PES(ox)); 5-methylphenazinium methylsulfate; 1-methoxy-5-methylphenazinium methylsulfate; diaphorase (dihydrolipoamide reductase, EC 1.6.4.3.); and a combination thereof. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said electron acceptor dye is selected from the group consisting of thiazolyl blue (MTT); 3,3'-(3,3'-dimethoxy-4,4'-biphenylene)-bis(2-(p-nitrophenyl)-2H-tetrazoliu m chloride)(NBT); 3-(p-indophenyl)-2-(p-nitrophenyl)-5-phenyl-2H-tetrazolium chloride (INT); 3,3'-(4,4'-biphenylene)-bis(2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazoliumchloride); 3,3'-(3,3'-dimethoxy-4,4.sup.1 -biphenylene)-bis(2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium chloride); 3,3'-(3,3'-bis(2,5-bis(p-nitrophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium chloride); and a combination thereof. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said solid tissue is organ tissue. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said solid tissue is skin, muscle, or bone tissue. 17. A method for calculating niacin status in a solid tissue sample, comprising: (a) determining NAD context and NADP content of said solid tissue sample using the method of claim 1; and (b) determining niacin status from a ratio of said NAD content and NADP content. 