A downhole tool and apparatus is described for logging and/or remedial operations in a wellbore in a hydrocarbon reservoir. The tool comprises an autonomous unit (1) for measuring downhole conditions, preferably flow conditions. The autonomous unit comprises locomotion means (12) for providing a motion along said wellbore; means (14) for detecting said downhole conditions; and logic means (113) for controlling said unit, said logic means being capable of making decisions based on at least two input parameters. It can be separately attached to a wireline unit (22) connected to the surface or launched from the surface. The connection system (31, 32) between both units can be repeatedly operated under down hole conditions and preferably includes an active component for closing and/or breaking the connection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for acquiring signals representing down hole conditions of a wellbore in a hydrocarbon reservoir, said method including the steps of: (a) introducing an autonomous unit into the wellbore, said autonomous unit being adapted to operate untethered in the wellbore untethered from the surface and comprising: (i) a locomotion unit for providing motion along the wellbore; (ii) detecting units for detecting the down hole conditions; and (iii) a logic unit for controlling said autonomous unit, said logic unit being capable of making decisions based on at least two input parameters; and (b) activating said locomotion unit and said detecting units so as to perform measurements of the down hole conditions in at least one location of the wellbore while the autonomous unit is untethered from the surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the introducing step comprises lowering said autonomous unit into the wellbore while separably and re-connectably attached to a wireline unit. 3. The method of claim 1 and further comprising the step of moving said autonomous unit through a horizontal or high-angle wellbore. 4. A down hole tool for detecting down hole conditions in a wellbore in a hydrocarbon reservoir, said down hole tool comprising: (a) an autonomous unit comprising a locomotion unit for providing a motion along the wellbore, said autonomous unit being adapted for operation in the wellbore untethered from the surface; (b) detecting units for detecting said down hole conditions; and (c) a logic unit for controlling said autonomous unit, said logic unit being capable of making decisions based on at least two input parameters. 5. The down hole tool of claim 4 and further comprising a wireline unit connected to the surface and a connection system for providing a separable and re connectable connection between said wireline unit and said autonomous unit. 6. The down hole tool of claim 5, wherein said autonomous unit comprises a power generating system inside the wellbore. 7. The down hole tool of claim 4, wherein said locomotion unit is selected form a group comprising caterpillar tracks, propeller, wheels or a combination thereof. 8. The down hole tool of claim 4, wherein said autonomous unit further comprises a video unit for collecting images from the wellbore. 9. A down hole tool for detecting down hole conditions in a wellbore in a hydrocarbon reservoir, said down hole tool comprising: (a) an autonomous unit having a locomotion unit for providing a notion along the wellbore; (b) detecting units for detecting said down hole conditions; (c) a logic unit for controlling said autonomous unit, said logic unit being capable of making decisions based on at least two input parameters; and (d) a wireline unit connected to the surface and a connection system for providing a separable and re-connectable connection between said wireline unit and said autonomous unit, wherein said connection system includes a motor unit for closing and/or breaking the connection. 10. A connection system for providing a separable and reconnectable connection between an autonomous unit comprising a logic unit and a wireline unit of a down hole tool in a wellbore for hydrocarbon exploration or production, said connection, when closed, providing for the transmission of data down the wireline unit and across the connection to the logic unit of the autonomous unit said connection system comprising: a motor unit for closing and/or breaking the connection. 11. A connection system according to claim 10, wherein said connection, when closed, provides for the transmission of power down the wireline unit and across the connection to the autonomous unit. 12. A connection system according to claim 10, wherein said connection, when closed, provides an inductive link between the wireline unit and the autonomous unit. 13. A connection system according to claim 10, wherein said connection, when closed, provides direct electrical connection between the wireline unit and the autonomous unit. 14. A connection system according to claim 10, wherein: (a) the autonomous unit comprises a probe; (b) the wireless unit comprises pinions on the wireline unit; and (c) said motor unit drives the pinions to pull the probe into the wireline unit, thereby closing said connection. 15. The connection system according to claim 10, and further comprising a latch mechanism to lock the autonomous unit to the wireline unit. 16. An autonomous downhole oilfield tool comprising; a) a body adapted to be delivered into a wellbore from the surface and be resident in the wellbore, the body being adapted to operate untethered from the surface; b) a source of electrical power operatively associated with the body; c) at least one sensor associated with the body monitoring at least one operating parameter of the tool relative to its environment; d) a microprocessor associated with the body receiving data from the sensor; e) memory associated with the microprocessor providing information for operating instructions to the body; f) transport mechanism controlled by the microprocessor and moving the body within the wellbore; and g) an end work device associated with the body performing a desired function downhole. 17. A downhole tool as set forth in claim 16 further comprising a transmitter associated with the body transmitting data to a receiver associated with other equipment operatively associated with the wellbore. 18. A downhole tool as set forth in claim 17, wherein the other equipment is selected from the group comprising a surface controller, a transceiver, down hole mechanical equipment, and down hole sensors. 19. A downhole tool as set forth in claim 16 further comprising a receiver associated with the body receiving data from a transmitter associated with other equipment operatively associated with the wellbore. 20. A downhole tool as set forth in claim 19, wherein the other equipment is selected from the group comprising a surface controller, a transceiver, downhole mechanical equipment, downhole sensors and a docking station. 21. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 16 wherein said end use device comprises at least one carrier detachably securing and transporting downhole equipment from a first location in the wellbore to a second location. 22. A downhole work system comprising; a) at least one of the autonomous downhole tool as claimed in claim 21; b) at least one wireline unit in the wellbore having the ability to communicate with the autonomous tool and having access to equipment deliverable to said autonomous tool to facilitate said autonomous tool in carrying out a desired operation. 23. A down hole tool as claimed in claim 16 wherein said end work device comprises at least one sensor monitoring data in the wellbore, said sensor being selected from the group consisting of formation sensors, wellbore production fluid parameter sensors, and wellbore equipment sensors. 24. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 23 wherein said at least one sensor is an imaging system. 25. A down hole tool as set forth in claim 16 wherein the body and the end work device together form an item of down hole equipment and operate with the wellbore structure to perform the desired function. 26. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 16 wherein said power source is self contained in association with said body of said tool. 27. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 16 wherein said transport mechanism utilizes mechanical propagation. 28. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 16 wherein said transport mechanism utilizes fluid propagation. 29. A down hole work system comprising: a plurality of the down hole tools as claimed in claim 16 and a communications system communicating with a plurality of other said down hole tools to accomplish a desired function. 30. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 16 wherein said body is adapted to operate electrically tethered to a remote point in the wellbore. 31. A downhole work system comprising: a delivery system delivering an autonomous downhole oilfield tool to a predetermined location downhole and releasing the downhole tool at said predetermined location, the downhole comprising: a) a body adapted to be delivered into a wellbore from the surface and be resident in the wellbore; b) a source of electrical power operatively associated with the body; c) at least one sensor associated with the body monitoring at least one operating parameter of the tool relative to its environment; d) a microprocessor associated with the body receiving data from the sensor; e) memory associated with the microprocessor providing information for operating instructions to the body; f) transport mechanism controlled by the microprocessor and moving the body within the wellbore; and g) an end work device associated with the body performing a desired function downhole. 32. A wellbore monitoring control and work system comprising: (a) a wellbore (b) a body adapted to be delivered into a wellbore from the surface and be resident in the wellbore; (c) a source of electrical power operatively associated with the body; (d) at least one sensor associated with the body monitoring at least one operating parameter of the tool relative to its environment; (e) a microprocessor associated with the body receiving data from the sensor; (f) memory associated with the microprocessor providing information for operating instructions to the body; (g) transport mechanism controlled by the microprocessor and moving the body within the wellbore; (h) an end work device associated with the body performing a desired function down hole; (i) a wireline unit located in the wellbore at a predetermined location, said wireline unit cooperating with said body to provide electrical power and data to the body, and said body being adapted to operate untethered from said wireline unit. 33. A wellbore monitoring control and work system as claimed in claim 32 wherein said body is further adapted to operate tethered to the wireline unit. 34. A down hole tool for detecting down hole conditions in a wellbore in a hydrocarbon reservoir, said tool comprising; (a) an autonomous unit having an outer hull and a locomotion unit for providing motion along the wellbore, said autonomous unit being designed such that, during motion, an essentially annular region is left between said outer hull of said autonomous unit and the wall of the wellbore; (b) detecting units for detecting the down hole conditions; and (c) a logic unit for controlling said autonomous unit, said logic unit being capable of making decisions based on at least two input parameters, the tool being adapted to operate in the wellbore untethered from the surface. 35. A down hole tool for detecting downhole conditions in a wellbore in a hydrocarbon reservoir, said downhole tool comprising: (a) an autonomous unit having a locomotion unit for providing motion along the wellbore; (b) detecting units for detecting the down hole conditions; and (c) a logic unit for controlling said autonomous unit, said logic unit being capable of making decisions based on at least two input parameters, (d) wherein the buoyancy of said autonomous unit is controlled by a releasable ballast unit. 36. A downhole tool for detecting down hole conditions in a wellbore in a hydrocarbon reservoir, said downhole tool comprising: (a) an autonomous unit having a locomotion unit for providing motion along the wellbore, said autonomous unit comprising a foldable parachute for supporting a motion in a direction of a flow in the wellbore; (b) detecting units for detecting the down hole conditions; and (c) a logic unit for controlling said autonomous unit, said logic unit being capable of making decisions based on at least two input parameters, and said tool being adapted to operate in the wellbore untethered from the surface. 37. A down hole tool for detecting down hole conditions in a wellbore in a hydrocarbon reservoir, said downhole tool comprising: (a) an autonomous unit having a locomotion unit for providing motion along the wellbore, said autonomous unit comprising a foldable parachute for supporting a motion in a direction of a flow in the wellbore; (b) detecting units for detecting the down hole conditions; and (c) a logic unit for controlling said autonomous unit, said logic unit being capable of making decisions based on at least two input parameters, and said tool being adapted to operate in the wellbore untethered from the surface. 38. A down hole tool for detecting down hole conditions in a wellbore in a hydrocarbon reservoir, said down hole tool comprising: (a) an autonomous unit: (i) having a locomotion unit for providing motion along the wellbore and (ii) comprising a telemetry channel for communicating signals; (b) detecting units for detecting the down hole conditions; and (c) a logic unit for controlling said autonomous unit, said logic unit being capable of making decisions based on at least two input parameters, and said tool being adapted to operate in the wellbore untethered from the surface. 39. The down hole tool of claim 38, wherein said telemetry channel includes a system for transferring acoustic energy to a surrounding liquid or casing. 