The present invention relates to a compliant end effector for securing an implement or tool such as a spindle to an arm of an industrial robot. The end effector has an internal passageway that extends completely through the end effector for receiving the spindle. The end effector includes a mounting assembly, a gripping assembly, a compliant assembly and a biasing assembly. The mounting assembly has a mounting bracket that rigidly secures the end effector to the robotic arm. The gripping assembly has a support bracket that rigidly secures the spindle to the end effector. The compliant assembly joins the mounting assembly to the gripping assembly, and includes an internal collar with two sets of opposed pivot pins that form first and second pivot axes. The biasing assembly includes a sponge rubber biasing ring with a number of uniformly spaced springs that combine to bias the spindle into a normal biased position. The spindle has a reference axis that forms a reference line for the end effector when in this biased position. The collar and biasing ring also have openings that form a part of the passageway. The two-pivot axes allow the spindle to pivot in any direction relative to the reference line through 360.degree. around the reference line. The biasing assembly includes a stiffness adjustment assembly that produces a pre-load condition to adjust the amount of force needed to pivot the spindle out of its normal biased position. As the robotic arm moves the implementing along a uniform path of travel, the tool engages a workpiece with a substantially uniform surface or edge and cuts away unwanted burs or other unintended discontinuities from that surface or edge. However, the tool compliantly pivots relative to the reference line when the tool encounters a desired projection in the workpiece so that the tool does not gouge or cut away that desired projection.
Claims We claim: 1. A compliant end effector for securing an implement to a robot with a robotic arm, the implement having a reference axis and a tool for performing work on a workpiece, the compliant end effector comprising: a mounting assembly including a mounting bracket that forms an opening, said mounting bracket being rigidly secured to the robotic arm; a gripping assembly including a support bracket, the implement being rigidly secured to said support bracket; a biasing assembly that biases the implement and gripping assembly into a biased position, the reference axis of the implement forming a reference line when in said biased position; and, a compliant assembly for joining said mounting and gripping assemblies, said compliant assembly including a collar that forms an opening, said opening of said collar being aligned with said opening of said mounting bracket, the implement passing through said openings of said collar and said mounting bracket, said collar being pivotally connected to said mounting assembly via a first connection permitting said collar to pivot about a first pivot axis relative to said mounting assembly, and said collar being pivotally connected to said gripping assembly via a second connection permitting said gripping assembly to pivot about a second pivot axis relative to said collar, said compliant assembly allowing the implement and said gripping assembly to pivot out of said biased position and allowing the implement and its tool to pivot about said reference line. 2. The compliant end effector of claim 1, and wherein said first pivot axis is substantially perpendicular to and intersects said second pivot axis, and said compliant assembly allows the implement and its tool to pivot out of said biased position in any direction through 360.degree. of rotation about said reference line. 3. The compliant end effector of claim 2, and wherein said first pivot axis is substantially perpendicular to and intersects said second pivot axis to form a pivot point, and the reference axis of the implement pivots about said pivot point. 4. The compliant end effector of claim 3, and wherein said opening of said mounting bracket has a centerline that passes through said pivot point, and the reference axis of the implement is linearly aligned with said centerline when in said biased position. 5. The compliant end effector of claim 3, and wherein said first connection is formed by a first pair of opposed pivot pins, and said second connection is formed by a second pair of opposed pivot pins, said first and second sets of pivot pins extending from said collar, and said first and second pivot axes pass through said pivot pins. 6. The compliant end effector of claim 3, and wherein a first pair of pivot pins are held by said mounting bracket, and said collar is adapted to fit inside said opening of said mounting bracket. 7. The compliant end effector of claim 6, and wherein the implement is a spindle with a rotating shaft, and said reference line is defined by said rotating shaft when in said biased position. 8. The compliant end effector of claim 7, and wherein said mounting bracket is a mounting plate with upper and lower surfaces, and said first pivot axis of said first connection extends substantially parallel to either of said upper and lower surfaces. 9. The compliant end effector of claim 5, and wherein said gripping assembly is spaced from said collar and said mounting assembly via a pair of stanchions, each of said stanchions being rigidly secured to said gripping assembly, and each of said stanchions being pivotally supported by one of said second pair of pivot pins. 10. The compliant end effector of claim 1, and wherein said support bracket has an opening aligned with said openings of said mounting bracket and said collar to form a passageway, and the implement is positioned to pass completely through said passageway. 11. A compliant end effector for securing an implement to a robot with a robotic arm, the implement having a reference axis and a tool for performing work on a workpiece, the compliant end effector comprising: a mounting assembly including a mounting bracket that forms an opening, said mounting bracket being rigidly secured to the robotic arm; a gripping assembly including a support bracket, the implement being rigidly secured to said support bracket; a biasing assembly including a biasing ring positioned between said mounting bracket and said support bracket, said biasing ring forming an opening, the implement passing through said openings in said biasing ring and said mounting bracket, said biasing ring biasing the implement and said gripping assembly into a biased position, the reference axis of the implement forming a reference line when in said biased position, and, a compliant assembly joining said mounting and gripping assemblies, said complaint assembly allowing the implement and said gripping assembly to pivot out of said biased position and the implement being able to pivot about said reference line. 12. The compliant end effector of claim 11, and wherein said compliant assembly allows the implement to pivot out of said biased position in any direction through 360.degree. of rotation about said reference line. 13. The compliant end effector of claim 10, and wherein said biasing assembly further includes a plurality of springs spaced uniformly around said biasing ring. 14. The compliant end effector of claim 13, and wherein said biasing ring is a damper and said biasing ring dampens vibrations associated with said springs. 15. The compliant end effector of claim 14, and wherein said biasing ring has uniformly spaced holes, each of said holes receiving one of said springs. 16. The compliant end effector of claim 13, and wherein said biasing assembly includes an adjustment assembly for compressing said biasing ring and springs to a desired pre-load condition. 17. The compliant end effector of claim 16, and wherein said adjustment assembly is movable relative to said support bracket. 18. The compliant end effector of claim 11, and wherein said opening of said mounting bracket forms a centerline that is inline with said reference line, and said biasing ring is spaced equidistantly around said centerlines of said mounting and gripping assemblies. 19. The compliant end effector of claim 11, and wherein said support bracket has an opening and the implement passed through said openings of said support bracket, biasing ring and mounting bracket. 20. The compliant end effector of claim 18, and wherein said biasing assembly provides uniform pressure to said gripping assembly around said centerline of said gripping assembly when said end effector is in said biased position. 21. The compliant end effector for securing an implement to an arm of a robot, the implement having a reference axis and a tool with a side surface for performing work on a workpiece, the workpiece having a substantially uniform surface with intended and unintended discontinuities, the robot being programmable to move the implement along a uniform path of travel corresponding to the substantially uniform surface of the workpiece, the compliant end effector comprising: a mounting assembly that includes a mounting bracket with an opening, said mounting bracket being rigidly secured to the arm of the robot; a gripping assembly that includes a support bracket with an opening, said support bracket rigidly securing the implement to said end effector, the implement passing through said openings or said mounting and support brackets; a biasing assembly that biases the implement into a biased position, the reference axis of the implement forming a reference line when in said biased position; and, a compliant assembly that joins said mounting assembly to said gripping assembly, said compliant assembly being adapted to allow the reference axis of the tool to move out of alignment with said reference line when the side surface of the tool engages the surface of the workpiece, said biasing assembly maintaining the side surface of the tool in contact with the surface of the workpiece to remove the unintended discontinuity as the robot moves the implement along the uniform path of travel, and said compliant device allows the tool to accommodate the intended discontinuity as the robot moves the implement along the uniform path of travel. 22. The compliant end effector of claim 21, and wherein the substantially uniform surface of the workpiece is arcuate and the robotic arm is programmed to move the implement along an arcuate path of travel corresponding to the arcuate surface of the workpiece, and the compliant assembly is adapted to allow the reference axis of the implement to move out of alignment with the reference line through 360 degree of rotation about said reference line, said biasing assembly maintaining the side surface of the tool in engagement with the arcuate surface of the workpiece throughout the arcuate path of travel of the implement. 23. The compliant end effector of claim 21, and wherein the workpiece has several substantially uniform surfaces, each uniform surface having a different orientation relative to the other, and the robotic arm is programmed move the implement along several uniform paths of travel, each corresponding to one of the substantially uniform surface of the workpiece, and the compliant assembly is adapted to allow the reference axis of the implement to move out of alignment with said reference line through 360 degree of rotation about said reference line, said biasing assembly maintaining the side surface of the tool in engagement with the corresponding uniform surface of the workpiece for each path of travel. 24. The compliant end effector of claim 21, and wherein the implement is a spindle with a rotating shaft, and said reference line is defined by said rotating shaft when in said biased position. 