An integral machine for polishing, cleaning, rinsing and drying workpieces such as semiconductor wafers. A load/unload station has a plurality of platforms for receiving cassettes of wafers to be processed. A dry end-effector of a robot retrieves wafers from the cassettes and transfers them to an index table. A transfer apparatus having wafer carrier elements picks up wafers from the index table, moves the wafers to a polishing table for polishing, and returns the wafers to the index table for further processing. A flipper moves the polished wafers to a cleaning station. The cleaning station includes scrub stations, a rinsing station and a spin dryer station, and a connective system of water tracks. A wet end-effector of the robot transfers rinsed wafers to the spin dryer station. The dry end-effector of the robot moves dried wafers from the spin dryer station back to the cassette of origination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cleaning station having an inlet end and an outlet end, each end within a span of reach of a robot receiving polished semiconductor wafers from a rotatable index table, the cleaning station comprising: a robot adapted to transfer wafers from an index table holding polished wafers to a first water track at an inlet end of the cleaning station for transport of wafers to a scrubbing station; a scrubbing station comprising a series of rollers for cleaning wafers while transporting the wafers through the scrubbing station; a second water track for transferring wafers from an outlet of the scrubbing station to a rinse station; a rinse station located proximate the scrubbing station to receive scrubbed wafers from the water track, the rinse station comprising rinse rings for holding individual wafers and a manifold to supply a rinse solution; and a third water track for transferring rinsed wafers to a drying station, the drying station drying wafers and located within the reach of the robot for robotic transfer of wafers from an outlet of the drying station. 2. The cleaning station of claim 1, wherein the drying station is a spin drying station. 3. A cleaning station with an inlet end and an outlet within a span of reach of a robot for transporting wafers to and from a rotatable index table, that receives semiconductor wafers from a polishing machine, the cleaning station comprising: a robot adapted to transfer wafers from an index table holding polished wafers to a first water track for transport of wafers to a scrubbing station; a series of two scrubbing stations, each station comprising a series of rollers for cleaning wafers while transporting the wafers through the scrubbing station, said stations arranged for sequential scrubbing of wafers with a second water track extending from an outlet of a first of the two said stations to an inlet of the second of said stations to transport wafers between said stations; a third water track for transferring wafers from an outlet of the second of the two scrubbing stations to a rinse station; a rinse station located proximate the scrubbing stations to receive scrubbed wafers from said second water track, the rinse station comprising rinse rings for holding individual wafers and a manifold to apply a rinse solution to held wafers; and a drying station located proximate the rinse station, an outlet of the drying station within the reach of the robot for robotic transfer of dried wafers from the drying station. 4. A cleaning station, integral with a polishing machine, for cleaning, rinsing and drying semiconductor wafers, the cleaning station comprising: a first scrub station having a plurality of roller pairs, an entry and an exit; a second scrub station having a plurality of roller pairs, an entry and an exit, a rinsing station for rinsing said wafers; a drying station for drying said wafers; a first water track which initially receives said wafers and urges said wafers into said first scrub station entry; a second water track which receives said wafers from said first scrub station exit and urges said wafers into said second scrub station entry; and a third water track which receives said wafers from said second scrub station exit and urges said wafers into said rinsing station. 5. A cleaning station as claimed in claim 4, wherein said water tracks further comprise a robot to retrieve said wafers from said rinsing station and to transfer said wafers to said drying station. 6. A cleaning station as claimed in claim 5, wherein said first water track comprises; a staging pin vertically moveable to a raised position to retain said wafers in said first water track and moveable to a lowered position to permit said wafers to pass into said first scrub station; and reverse fluid jets operable when said staging pin is in a raised position to discharge fluid in a reverse direction to prevent said wafers from contacting said raised staging pin. 7. A cleaning station as claimed in claim 6, wherein said second water track comprises: a first potion connected to said first scrub station exit; and a staging area connected at a slightly lower elevation relative to said first portion to prevent said wafers from floating back into said first portion, said staging area comprising a staging pin vertically moveable to a raised position to retain said wafers in said staging area and moveable to a lowered position to permit said wafers to pass into said second scrub station, and reverse fluid jets operable when said staging pin is in a raised position to discharge fluid in a reverse direction to prevent said wafers from contacting said raised staging pin. 8. A cleaning station as claimed in claim 7, wherein said third water track comprises a first staging area, a transition section, and a second staging area, and wherein: said first staging area is connected to said second scrub station exit and comprises a first staging pin positioned between said first staging area and said transition section which is vertically moveable to a raised position to retain said wafers in said first staging area and moveable to a lowered position to permit said wafers to pass into said transition section a second staging pin positioned between said second scrub station and first staging area which is vertically moveable to a raised position to prevent said wafers from floating back into said second scrub station and moveable to a lowered position to permit said wafers to pass from said second scrub station exit into said first staging area, and two sets of reverse fluid jets operable when said staging pins are in raised position to discharge fluid in a reverse direction to prevent said wafers from contacting said staging pins; said transition section is connected to said first staging area and comprises a plurality of fluid jets to urge said wafers from said first staging area and into said second staging area; and said second staging area is connected to said transition section and comprises a staging pin vertically moveable to a raised position to retain said wafers in said second staging area and moveable to a lowered position to permit said wafers to pass into said rinsing station, and reverse fluid jets operable when said staging pin is in a raised position to discharge fluid in a reverse direction to prevent said wafers from contacting said staging pin. 