A workpiece support and an apparatus including such a workpiece support are set forth. The workpiece support includes a set of grooved members for supporting a series of workpieces. The workpieces may be similarly shaped, e.g. circular or rectangular, and similarly sized, each having a front face and a back face. An outer perimeter of each workpiece may be beveled at both faces, beveled at one face, unbeveled, convex, or concave. Each grooved member has a series of similar grooves. Being adapted to receive such a workpiece, each groove has a bearing wall and a wedging wall shaped and oriented so that a line normal to the wedging wall intersects but is not normal to the bearing wall. For many applications, two grooved members are employed, which are parallel to one another, spaced from one another, and oriented so that the grooves of the grooved members are generally aligned. To this end, a first grooved member is oriented so that the front faces of the received workpieces bear against the bearing walls of the grooves of the first grooved member and so that the received workpieces touch the wedging walls of the grooves of the first grooved member. A second grooved member is oriented so that the back faces of the received workpieces bear against the bearing walls of the grooves of the second grooved member and so that the received workpieces touch the wedging walls of the grooves of the second grooved member. Thus, the workpieces received by the grooves of the grooved members are wedged so as not to tip, shake, or wobble.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A workpiece support for receiving a series of workpieces, each workpiece having a front face, a back face, and an outer perimeter, the workpiece support comprising: a set of grooved members, each grooved member including a series of grooves interspersed between a series of teeth, each groove including a bearing wall and a wedging wall for receiving a workpiece therebetween; wherein in at least a first grooved member of the set of grooved members, the bearing walls are oriented so as to face toward and bear against the front faces of the received workpieces, and the wedging walls are angled so as to face toward the back faces of the received workpieces; wherein at least a second grooved member of the set of grooved members, the bearing walls are oriented so as to face toward and bear against the back faces of the received workpieces, and the wedging walls are angled so as to face toward the front faces of the received workpieces received workpieces; and wherein the teeth of at least one of the grooved members include an aligned recess to accommodate a workpiece sensor. 2. The workpiece support of claim 1 wherein the bearing wall is generally parallel to the face of the received workpiece opposite the bearing wall. 3. The workpiece support of claim 1 wherein the wedging wall is at an angle between perpendicular and parallel with respect to the bearing wall and the face of the received workpiece opposite the wedging wall. 4. The workpiece support of claim 3 wherein the wedging wall engages an edge of the received workpiece. 5. The workpiece support of claim 3 wherein the wedging wall engages at least a portion of a beveled edge of the received workpiece. 6. The workpiece support of claim 1 wherein each groove further includes a bottom wall extending between the bearing wall and the wedging wall. 7. The workpiece support of claim 1 wherein each groove further includes an opposite wall extending up from the wedging wall and being generally parallel to the bearing wall. 8. The workpiece support of claim 7 wherein each groove further includes a pair of inlet walls each being associated with one of the bearing wall and the opposite wall, wherein the inlet walls are each at an angle between perpendicular and parallel with respect to the associated bearing wall and opposite wall, and generally faces upward so as to provide a groove that is wider at the opening. 9. The workpiece support of claim 1 wherein the series of grooves of the first grooved member are generally aligned, so as to correspond to the series of grooves of the second grooved member. 10. The workpiece support of claim 1 wherein the first grooved member is generally parallel to the second grooved member. 11. The workpiece support of claim 1 wherein the first grooved member is spaced apart from the second grooved member. 12. The workpiece support of claim 1 wherein the first grooved member is generally parallel to and spaced apart from the second grooved member, and wherein the workpiece support includes a cross member connected between respective ends of each of the first and second grooved members. 13. The workpiece support of claim 1 wherein the first grooved member and the second grooved member are formed as a single piece. 14. The workpiece support of claim 1 further comprising an engagement member having a pair of transfer arms cantilevered off of a cross member, the elongated supports forming a mating arrangement to support the set of grooved members. 15. The workpiece support of claim 1 wherein the workpiece sensor includes a sensor projector and a sensor detector at opposing ends of the at least one grooved member having the aligned recess. 16. A workpiece support for receiving a workpiece having a front face, a back face, and an outer perimeter, the workpiece support comprising: an end effector including a cross member having a pair of elongated supports cantilevered off of the cross member for supporting a first grooved member and a second grooved member; the first grooved member including a series of grooves interspersed between a series of teeth having a bearing wall and a wedging wall for receiving a workpiece therebetween, the bearing wall of the first grooved member being oriented so as to face toward and bear against the front face of the received workpieces, and the wedging wall being angled so as to face toward the back face of the received workpiece; the second grooved member aligned with the first grooved member, the second grooved member including a series of grooves interspersed between a series of teeth, the second grooved member having a bearing wall and a wedging wall for receiving a workpiece therebetween, the bearing wall of the second grooved member being oriented so as to face toward and bear against the back face of the received workpiece, and the wedging wall being angled so as to face toward the front face of the received workpiece; and wherein the teeth of at least one of the first grooved member or the second grooved member include an aligned recess to accommodate a workpiece sensor. 17. The workpiece support of claim 16 wherein the bearing wall of each of the first and second grooved members is generally parallel to the face of the received workpiece opposite the bearing wall. 18. The workpiece support of claim 16 wherein the wedging wall of each of the first and second grooved members is at an angle between perpendicular and parallel with respect to the bearing wall the face of the received workpiece opposite the wedging wall. 19. The workpiece support of claim 18 wherein the wedging wall of each of the first and second grooved members engages an edge of the received workpiece. 20. The workpiece support of claim 18 wherein the wedging wall of each of the first and second grooved members engages at least a portion of a beveled edge of the received workpiece. 21. The workpiece support of claim 16 wherein each groove of the first and second grooved members further includes a bottom wall extending between the bearing wall and the wedging wall. 22. The workpiece support of claim 16 wherein each groove of the first and second grooved member further includes an opposite wall extending up from the wedging wall and being generally parallel to the bearing wall. 23. The workpiece support of claim 22 wherein each groove of the first and second grooved members further includes a pair of inlet walls each being associated with one of the bearing wall and the opposite wall, wherein the inlet walls are each at an angle between perpendicular and parallel with respect to the associated bearing wall and opposite wall, and generally face upward so as to provide a groove that is wider at the opening thereof. 24. The workpiece support of claim 16 wherein the first grooved member is generally parallel to the second grooved member. 25. The workpiece support of claim 16 wherein the first grooved member is spaced apart from the second grooved member. 26. The workpiece support of claim 16 wherein the first grooved member is generally parallel to and spaced apart from the second grooved member, and wherein the workpiece support includes a cross member connected between respective ends of each of the first and second grooved members. 27. The workpiece support of claim 16 wherein the first grooved member and the second grooved member are formed as a single piece. 28. A robotic transfer mechanism for manipulating microelectronic workpieces, the microelectronic workpieces having a front face, a back face, and an outer perimeter, the robotic transfer mechanism comprising: a base including a track; an arm assembly vertically moveable along the track and including an arm segment offset to one side of the base, with the arm segment having a first end and a second end, the first end pivotably supported on the track such that the arm segment is pivotable in the vertical direction and, an end effector pivotably supported on the second end of the arm segment, the arm assembly including drive motors for pivoting the arm segment relative to the base and for pivoting the end effector relative to the arm segment, the end effector comprising: a first grooved member including at least one groove having a bearing wall and a wedging wall for receiving a workpiece therebetween, the bearing wall of the first grooved member being oriented so as to face toward and bear against the front face of the received workpieces; a second grooved member extending in a direction parallel to the first grooved member, the second grooved member including at least one groove aligned with the at least one groove of the first grooved member, the at least one groove having a bearing wall and a wedging wall for receiving a workpiece therebetween, the bearing wall of the second grooved member being oriented so as to face toward and bear against the back face of the received workpiece, and the wedging wall being angled so as to face toward the front face of the received workpiece; and wherein each of the teeth of at least one of the grooved members includes an aligned recess to accommodate a workpiece sensor. 29. The robot transfer mechanism according to claim 28, wherein the first grooved member and the second grooved member and cross member are formed as a single piece. 30. The robot transfer mechanism according to claim wherein the workpiece sensor includes a sensor projector and a sensor detector at opposing ends of at least one of the grooved members. 31. An apparatus for processing microelectronic workpieces in which the microelectronic workpleces have a front face, a back face, and an outer perimeter, the apparatus comprising: a microelectronic workpiece processing station; a robotic transfer mechanism disposed to transport microelectronic workpieces to and from the microelectronic workpiece processing station, the robotic transfer mechanism including, an upright base; an arm assembly movable vertically on the base and including an arm segment having a first end and a second end with the first end pivotably supported on the base such that the arm segment is pivotable in the vertical direction; a workpiece support pivotably supported on the second end of the arm segment and comprising: a first grooved member having a first end attached to a cross member so that the first grooved member is cantilevered off of the cross member, and with the first grooved member including at least one groove having a bearing wall and a wedging wall for receiving a workpiece therebetween, the bearing wall of the first grooved member being oriented so as to face toward and bear against the front face of the received workpiece, and the wedging wall being angled so as to face toward the back face of the received workpiece; a second grooved member having a first end attached to the cross member so that the second grooved member is cantilevered off of the cross member and extending in a direction parallel to the first grooved member, the second grooved member including at least one groove aligned with the at least one groove of the first grooved member, the at least one groove having a bearing wall and a wedging wall for receiving a workpiece therebetween, the bearing wall of the second grooved member being oriented so as to face toward and bear against the back face of the received workpiece, and the wedging wall being angled so as to face toward the front face of the received workpiece; wherein in the retracted position, the workpiece support is disposed on a side of the vertical base and at least one of the grooved members includes an aligned recess to accommodate a workpiece sensor. 32. The apparatus according to claim 31, wherein the first grooved member and the second grooved member and cross member are formed as a single piece. 33. The apparatus according to claims 31, wherein the workpiece sensor includes a sensor projector and a sensor detector at opposing ends of at least one of the grooved members. 34. The apparatus according to claim 31, the arm assembly of the robotic transfer mechanism including drive motors for pivoting the arm segment relative to the base and for pivoting the workpiece support relative to the arm segment. 35. A workpiece support for receiving a series of workpieces, each workpiece having a front face, a back face, and an outer perimeter, the workpiece support comprising: a set of grooved members, each grooved member including a series of grooves interspersed between a series of teeth, each groove including a bearing wall and a wedging wall for receiving a workpiece therebetween; wherein in at least a first grooved member of the set of grooved members, the bearing walls are oriented so as to face toward and bear against the front faces of the received workpieces, and the wedging walls are angled so as to face toward the back faces of the received workpieces; wherein at least a second grooved member of the set of grooved members, the bearing walls are oriented so as to face toward and bear against the back faces of the received workpieces, and the wedging walls are angled so as to face toward the front faces of the received workpieces; and wherein the teeth of at least one of the grooved members include an aligned recess to accommodate a workpiece sensor and wherein the workpiece sensor includes a sensor projector and a sensor detector at opposing ends of the grooved member. 