A decentralized fuzzy logic control system for one vehicle or for multiple robotic vehicles provides a way to control each vehicle to converge on a goal without collisions between vehicles or collisions with other obstacles, in the presence of noisy input measurements and a limited amount of compute-power and memory on board each robotic vehicle. The fuzzy controller demonstrates improved robustness to noise relative to an exact controller.
Claims We claim: 1. A control system for controlling a vehicle to converge to a goal, wherein the control system comprises: a) a sensor, mounted with the vehicle; and b) a fuzzy controller, having predictable convergence characteristics, responsive to the sensor, generating a plurality of vehicle control commands to converge to the goal; c) wherein the sensor is indicative of an input combination comprising: a direction to the goal, a direction to a nearest obstacle, and a distance to the nearest obstacle. 2. The control system of claim 1, wherein the fuzzy controller comprises: a) a microcontroller, mounted with the vehicle, responsive to the sensor; b) a memory accessible from the microcontroller; and c) a program, stored in the memory, implementing fuzzy control rules on the microcontroller. 3. The control system of claim 1, wherein the fuzzy controller comprises a fuzzifier and a defuzzifier. 4. The control system of claim 3, wherein the fuzzifier comprises: a) a set of discrete values for an input measurement; and b) a fuzzy membership function, indicative of a probability, corresponding to the set of discrete values for the input measurement. 5. The control system of claim 4, wherein the fuzzy membership function comprises: a direction membership function and a distance membership function. 6. The control system of claim 1, wherein the defuzzifier comprises: a) an exact control value, corresponding to the input combination; b) a storage mechanism, containing the exact control value; and c) an inference system, generating a vehicle control command from a plurality of exact control values. 7. The control system of claim 6, wherein the inference system is a Sugeno Fuzzy Inference System. 8. The control system of claim 6, wherein the exact control value corresponds to a linear quadratic regulator solution for a single obstacle with a cost function J given by: ##EQU16## where (x,y) is the position of the nearest obstacle, (x.sub.g,y.sub.g) is the position of the goal, (x.sub.p,y.sub.p) is the position of a point P on the vehicle, and c.sub.2 is a weighting factor. 9. The control system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle is a nonholonomic vehicle. 10. A distributed control system for controlling a plurality of vehicles to converge to a goal, wherein the distributed control system comprises a vehicle control system on each vehicle, wherein each vehicle control system comprises: a) a sensor, mounted with the vehicle; and b) a fuzzy controller, responsive to the sensor, generating a plurality of vehicle control commands to converge to the goal; c) wherein the sensor is indicative of an input measurement comprising: a direction to the goal, a direction to a nearest obstacle, and a distance to the nearest obstacle. 11. The distributed control system of claim 10, wherein the fuzzy controller comprises: a) a microcontroller, mounted with the vehicle, responsive to the sensor; b) a memory device accessible from the microcontroller; and c) a program implementing fuzzy control rules on the microcontroller. 12. The distributed control system of claim 10, wherein the fuzzy controller comprises a fuzzifier and a defuzzifier. 13. The distributed control system of claim 12, wherein the fuzzifier comprises: a) a set of discrete values for the input measurement; and b) a fuzzy membership function, indicative of a probability, corresponding to the set of discrete values for the input measurement. 14. The distributed control system of claim 13, wherein the fuzzy membership function comprises: a) a triangular function, indicative of the probability between 0 and 1, inclusive; and b) a complementary function, indicative of a complementary probability; c) wherein the probability and the complementary probability sum to 1. 15. The distributed control system of claim 12, wherein the defuzzifier comprises: a) an exact control value, corresponding to an input measurement; b) a storage mechanism, containing the exact control value; and c) an inference system, generating a vehicle control command from a plurality of exact control values. 16. The distributed control system of claim 10, wherein the vehicle comprises a wheeled robotic vehicle, comprising: a) a distance, denoted R, equal to one-half the distance between two independent driving wheels on the vehicle; and b) an offset distance, denoted a, between a point at the midpoint between the two independent driving wheels and a point P fixed to the vehicle. 17. The distributed control system of claim 16, wherein the distance R is substantially equal to 0.58 meters, and wherein the offset distance a is substantially equal to 0.58 meters. 18. A method for controlling a vehicle to converge to a goal, wherein the vehicle comprises a sensor, a microcontroller, and a memory device, wherein the method comprises: a) accepting an input measurement from the sensor; b) fuzzifying the input measurement, according to a fuzzy control rule, to generate a discrete controller input; and c) defuzzifying the discrete controller input, according to an inference system, to generate a vehicle control command; d) wherein the input measurement comprises: a direction to the goal, a direction to a nearest obstacle, and a distance to the nearest obstacle. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of fuzzifying the input measurement comprises: a) defining a set of discrete values for the input measurement; b) generating a fuzzy membership function, indicative of a probability, corresponding to the set of discrete values for the input measurement; and c) generating a discrete controller input, according to a fuzzy membership function applied to the input measurement. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of defuzzifying the discrete controller input comprises: a) determining an exact control value, corresponding to the input measurement; b) storing the exact control value; and c) interpolating from a plurality of exact control values and from the discrete controller input, to generate a vehicle control command. 21. A method for controlling a plurality of vehicles to converge to a goal, wherein each vehicle comprises a sensor, a microcontroller, and a memory device, wherein the method comprises: a) defining a set of discrete values for an input measurement; b) generating a fuzzy membership function, indicative of a probability, corresponding to the set of discrete values for the input measurement; c) determining an exact control value, corresponding to the input measurement; d) on each vehicle, storing the exact control value; and e) on each vehicle: i) accepting an input measurement from the sensor; ii) generating a discrete controller input, according to the fuzzy membership function applied to the input measurement; iii) interpolating from a plurality of exact control values and from the discrete controller input, to generate a vehicle control command; iv) controlling the vehicle according to the vehicle control command; and v) repeating steps (i) through (iv) to control the vehicle until the vehicle converges to the goal; vi) wherein the input measurement comprises: a direction to the goal, a direction to a nearest obstacle, and a distance to the nearest obstacle. 22. A method for controlling a plurality of vehicles to converge to a goal, wherein each vehicle comprises a sensor, a microcontroller, and a memory device, wherein the method comprises: a) defining a set of discrete values for an input measurement; b) generating a fuzzy membership function, indicative of a probability, corresponding to the set of discrete values for the input measurement; c) determining an exact control value, corresponding to the input measurement; d) on each vehicle, storing the exact control value; and e) on each vehicle: i) accepting an input measurement from the sensor; ii) generating a discrete controller input, according to the fuzzy membership function applied to the input measurement; iii) interpolating from a plurality of exact control values and from the discrete controller input, to generate a vehicle control command; iv) controlling the vehicle according to the vehicle control command; and v) repeating steps (i) through (iv) to control the vehicle until the vehicle converges to the goal; f) wherein the exact control value corresponds to a linear quadratic regulator solution for a single obstacle with a cost function J given by: ##EQU17## where (x,y) is the position of the nearest obstacle, (x.sub.g,y.sub.g) is the position of the goal, (x.sub.p,y.sub.p) is the position of a point P on the vehicle, and c.sub.2 is a weighting factor. 