An apparatus for applying permanent markings onto products using a Vacuum Arc Vapor Deposition (VAVD) marker by accelerating atoms or molecules from a vaporization source onto a substrate to form human and/or machine-readable part identification marking that can be detected optically or via a sensing device like x-ray, thermal imagining, ultrasound, magneto-optic, micro-power impulse radar, capacitance, or other similar sensing means. The apparatus includes a housing with a nozzle having a marking end. A chamber having an electrode, a vacuum port and a charge is located within the housing. The charge is activated by the electrode in a vacuum environment and deposited onto a substrate at the marking end of the nozzle. The apparatus may be a hand-held device or be disconnected from the handle and mounted to a robot or fixed station.
Claims Having, thus set forth the nature of the invention, what is claimed herein is: 1. A vacuum arc vapor deposition device for applying a thin film coating as an identification mark by depositing vapors from a source onto a substrate spaced from said source, said apparatus comprising: a housing having a nozzle, said housing including a chamber therein connected to a vacuum source at a vacuum port, said nozzle having a marking end, an electrode located in said chamber, an ultrasonic cleaning device connected to the nozzle, a power source connected to said electrode, and a material holder disposed relative to said electrode in said chamber supplying a charge as the source. 2. The marking device as recited in claim 1, wherein the nozzle is at least partially deformable. 3. The marking device as recited in claim 1, further comprising a mask located between the nozzle and the substrate. 4. The marking device as recited in claim 3, wherein the mask is a stencil. 5. The marking device as recited in claim 1, wherein the cleaning device is further comprised of a ring connected to the nozzle coupled to a high-frequency transducer. 6. The marking device as recited in claim 1, further comprising a gas source connected to the chamber in the housing wherein a gas may be selectively dispensed to the chamber from the gas source. 7. The marking device as recited in claim 6, wherein the gas is argon. 8. The marking device as recited in claim 1, further comprising a controller in communication with the electrode. 9. The marking device as recited in claim 8, wherein the vacuum source is a vacuum pump in communication with the controller. 10. The marking device as recited in claim 1, wherein the housing contains a connector for mounting to a moveable base. 11. The marking device as recited in claim 1, further comprising a robotic mechanism connected to the housing. 12. The marking device as recited in claim 1, wherein the electrode is a cathode. 13. The marking device as recited in claim 3, further comprising a seal located at the marking end of the nozzle. 14. The marking device as recited in claim 13, wherein the seal is adapted to form an air tight connection between one of the mask and substrate when a vacuum is drawn in the chamber. 15. The vacuum arc deposition device of claim 1 wherein the housing is hand-held. 16. A method for applying a film coating as an identification mark by depositing vapors from a charge onto a substrate spaced from said charge, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a hand-held vacuum arc vapor deposition device having a housing with a nozzle, said housing having a chamber therein with a vacuum port connecting a vacuum source to the chamber, said housing having an electrode assembly with an electrode located within the chamber, said nozzle having a marking end and an ultrasonic cleaner; (b) placing the marking end of the nozzle upon the substrate, and then (c) activating the ultrasonic cleaner and removing air from the chamber through the vacuum port; and (d) activating the charge with the electrode to produce a vapor in the chamber wherein at least some of the vapor is deposited on the substrate through at the marking end of the nozzle. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of locating a mask between the charge and the substrate before activating the charge. 18. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of loading the charge in an anode assembly connected to the housing proximate to the electrode assembly. 