A substrate handling robot includes an arm drive mechanism. A first arm is connected to the arm drive mechanism. A multiple substrate batch loader is connected to the first arm. A second arm is also connected to the arm drive mechanism. A single plane end effector is connected to the second arm. The multiple substrate batch loader produces a vacuum signal indicative of how many substrates are held by the multiple substrate batch loader. A vacuum signal interpreter alters the movement of the first arm in response to the substrate load number. An object sensor is connected to the second arm. The object sensor assesses the number of substrates in a cassette adjacent to the multiple substrate batch loader. A substrate loading sequence controller controls the first arm and the second arm in response to the number of substrates in the cassette, such that the second arm removes substrates from the cassette in such a manner as to facilitate complete loading of the multiple substrate batch loader.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A dual-armed robot for handling substrates disposed in a container providing a plurality of uniformly-spaced storage slots arranged vertically, the robot comprising; a multiple plane substrate holder, comprising a plurality of identical modular paddles stacked on a base paddle with uniform spacing between the paddles, for transporting multiple substrates to and from respective ones of the storage slots; a first arm supporting the base paddle of the multiple plane substrate holder; a single plane substrate holder for transporting a single substrate; a second arm disposed beneath the first arm and supporting the single plane substrate holder, the first and the second arms arranged so that the single plane substrate holder is alignable with and beneath the base paddle of the multiple plane substrate holder; an arm drive mechanism, connected to the first and second arms to operate the first and second arms, the first and second arms non-interfering and operable independently from each other in either a cooperative or a distinct manner; a controller to control arm operation, wherein the multiple plane and single plane substrate holders may be operated in configurations chosen from the group of only the multiple substrate batch holder, only the single plane substrate holder and both the multiple substrate batch holder and the single plane substrate holder. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein each paddle of the multiple plane substrate holder and the single plane substrate holder includes a vacuum aperture connected to a vacuum source. 3. The robot of claim 2 further comprising a vacuum sensor to receive a vacuum signal from the vacuum apertures of the multiple plane substrate holder. 4. The robot of claim 3 further comprising a vacuum signal interpreter connected to the vacuum sensor to determine a substrate load number indicative of how many substrates are held by the multiple plane substrate holder. 5. The robot of claim 4 wherein the vacuum signal interpreter alters the speed of movement of the first arm in response to the substrate load number. 6. The robot of claim 1 further comprising an object sensor connected to the second arm. 7. The robot of claim 6 wherein the object sensor detects the presence of a substrate in a slot in the container. 8. The robot of claim 7 further comprising a substrate loading sequence controller to control the first arm and the second arm in response to a pattern of substrates in the container, as determined from the data from the object sensor, such that the first and second arms remove substrates from the container in a predetermined sequence, dependent on the number and position of the substrates. 9. The robot of claim 1 wherein the arm drive mechanism operative to controllably move the first arm is a harmonic drive mechanism. 