A module for use in a system for processing articles, in which the system includes a plurality of machine tools for processing articles, a pod for carrying the articles to be processed by the machine tools from one machine tool to another, a host processing controller associated with the machine tools for controlling the operation thereof, a robot connected to each machine tool for receiving a pod, opening the pod and for transporting the articles from within the pod into position on the machine tool for processing. An identification device is carried by the pod for identifying a particular pod and the articles carried in the pod. The module includes a single wire connection between the identification system, the host controller and the robot. The module has a microprocessor to identify the source of a signal and for routing the signal between the identification system and the host controller and between the host controller and the robot depending on its source.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for processing articles, which system includes a plurality of machine tools for processing articles, a pod for carrying the articles to be processed by said machine tools from one machine tool to another, a host processing controller associated with said machine tools for controlling the operation thereof, each said machine tool having a robot for receiving said pod, opening said pod and for transporting the articles from within said pod into position on said machine tool for processing, and an identification reader carried by said pod for identifying a particular pod and the articles carried therein, said system including a module comprising: a module controller; a first communication connection between said host processing controller and said module controller; a second communication connection between said module controller and said robot; and a third communication connection coupled to said module controller and adapted to communicate with said identification reader; wherein said module controller routes messages between said host processing controller and said robot over said first and second communication connection; and wherein said module controller is further adapted to read a material identification by communicating with said identification reader over said third communication connection when said module controller intercepts a material identification message from said host processing controller over said first communication connection. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein the module further comprises a reader connected to said third communication connection for reading said identification reader when said pod is placed on said machine tool. 3. The system according to claim 2 wherein said identification reader has an RF transmitter and said reader connected to said third communication connection comprises an RF receiver. 4. The system according to claim 2 wherein said identification reader has an infrared transmitter and said reader connected to said third communication connection comprises an infrared receiver. 5. The system according to claim 2 wherein said identification reader is a barcode and said reader connected to said third communication connection comprises an optical character reader. 6. The system according to claim 2 further comprising detecting means mounted on said machine tool for detecting the presence of said pod, said detecting means connected with said host controller, whereby when said host controller receives a message from said detecting means that a pod is in place for processing on said machine tool said host controller will issue a command to said reader to identify said pod by reading its identification means. 7. The system according to claim 6 wherein the module further comprises a power source and a power regulator for providing power to said module controller and to said reader. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein said module controller is further adapted to selectively communicate with either an RF identification reader, an infrared identification reader or a barcode identification reader. 9. A system for processing articles, the system comprising: a module controller; a first communication connection between a host processing controller and the module controller; a second communication connection between the module controller and a robot; and a third communication connection connected between the module controller and a material identification system; wherein the module controller is adapted to route messages between the host processing controller and the robot over the first and second communication connection and wherein the module controller is further adapted to read a material identification by communicating with the identification system over the third communication connection when the module controller receives a material identification message from the host processing controller over the first communication connection. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein the module controller is further adapted to selectively communicate with either a RF identification system, an infrared identification system or a barcode identification system. 11. The system according to claim 10 wherein the identification system has an RF transmitter and a reader comprising an RF receiver. 12. The system according to claim 10 wherein the identification system has an infrared transmitter and a reader comprising an infrared receiver. 13. The system according to claim 10 wherein the identification system has a barcode and a reader comprising a barcode reader. 14. The system according to claim 9 wherein the identification system has an RF transmitter and a reader comprising an RF receiver. 15. The system according to claim 9 wherein the identification system has an infrared transmitter and a reader comprising an infrared receiver. 16. The system according to claim 9 wherein the identification system has a barcode and a reader comprising a barcode reader. 17. A method of communicating with a host processing controller comprising the steps of: providing a module controller; connecting a first communication connection between a host processing controller and the module controller; connecting a second communication connection between the module controller and a robot; connecting a third communication connection between the module controller and a material identification system; routing messages with the module controller between the host processing controller and the robot over the first and second communication connection; intercepting a material identification message from the host processing controller over the first communication connection with the module controller; and reading a material identification by communicating with the identification system over the third communication connection. 