Rapid characterization and screening of polymer samples to determine average molecular weight, molecular weight distribution and other properties is disclosed. Rapid flow characterization systems and methods, including liquid chromatography and flow-injection analysis systems and methods are preferably employed. High throughput, automated sampling systems and methods, high-temperature characterization systems and methods, and rapid, indirect calibration compositions and methods are also disclosed. The described methods, systems, and devices have primary applications in combinatorial polymer research and in industrial process control.
Claims We claim: 1. A liquid chromatography system for characterizing a polymer sample, the system comprising an enclosure defining a heated environment, the heated environment being maintained at a temperature of not less than about 75.degree. C., a chromatographic column residing in the heated environment, the chromatographic column comprising a stationary phase within a separation cavity, an inlet port for receiving a mobile phase and a polymer sample to the separation cavity, and an effluent port for discharging the mobile phase and the polymer sample or separated components thereof from the separation cavity, an injection valve for injecting polymer samples into the mobile phase, a first reservoir for containing a first mobile phase fluid, the first reservoir being adapted to maintain the first mobile phase fluid at a first temperature, a second reservoir for containing a second mobile phase fluid, the second reservoir being adapted to maintain the second mobile phase fluid at a second temperature, a mixing zone adaptable for fluid communication with the first reservoir and the second reservoir for mixing of the first and second mobile phases, the mixing zone being further adaptable for fluid communication with the inlet port of the chromatographic column, a control system for controlling the temperature of the mobile phase in the mixing zone by varying the relative amounts of the first and second mobile-phase fluids supplied to the mixing zone, and a detector in fluid communication with the effluent port of the chromatographic column for detecting a property of at least one of the separated sample components. 2. The liquid chromatography system of claim 1 further comprising a heating element in thermal communication with at least one of the first or second reservoirs for maintaining the temperature of the mobile phase fluid in the reservoir. 3. The liquid chromatography system of claim 1 further comprising a first heating element in thermal communication with the first reservoir for maintaining the temperature of the first mobile phase fluid at the first temperature, and a second heating element in fluid communication with the second reservoir for maintaining the temperature of the second mobile phase fluid at the second temperature. 4. The liquid chromatography system of claim 1 wherein the temperature of at least one of the first or second mobile phase in the first or second reservoir is maintained to be not less than about 75.degree. C. 5. The liquid chromatography system of claim 1 wherein the temperature of at least one of the first or second mobile phase in the first or second reservoir is maintained to be not less than about 100.degree. C. 6. The liquid chromatography system of claim 1 wherein the temperature of at least one of the first or second mobile phase in the first or second reservoir is maintained to be not less than about 125.degree. C. 7. The liquid chromatography system of claim 1 wherein the detector is selected from the group consisting of a refractive-index detector, an ultraviolet-visual detector, a photodiode array detector, a static-light-scattering detector, a dynamic-light-scattering detector, an evaporative-light-scattering detector and a capillary viscometer detector. 8. A method for characterizing a polymer sample, the method comprising injecting a polymer sample into a mobile-phase of a liquid chromatography system, the mobile-phase being supplied to a liquid chromatography column from a mixing zone, the mixing zone being in fluid communication with a first reservoir containing a first mobile phase fluid at a first temperature, and with a second reservoir containing a second mobile phase fluid at a second temperature, controlling the temperature of the mobile-phase in the mixing zone to vary over time by varying the relative amounts of the first and second mobile-phase fluids supplied to the mixing zone, separating one or more sample components of the polymer sample in the chromatography column, and detecting a property of at least one of the separated sample components. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the polymer sample is characterized in the liquid chromatography system of claim 1. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the polymer sample is selected from the group consisting of polymer solutions, polymer emulsions and polymer dispersions. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein the polymer sample is a non-biological polymer sample. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein the polymer sample comprises a copolymer. 13. A method for analyzing a plurality of non-biological polymer samples, the method comprising providing a library comprising four or more spatially separated non-biological polymer samples, and serially characterizing each of the four or more polymer samples according to the methods of claim 8. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the library comprises four or more polymerization product mixtures in reaction vessels, the samples are withdrawn from the reaction vessels into an injection probe for delivery to the liquid chromatography system. 15. The method of claim 8 wherein the detected property is selected from the group consisting of emitted light, refracted light, absorbed light and scattered light. 16. The method of claim 8 further comprising determining a property of interest from the detected property. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the determined property is selected from the group consisting of weight-average molecular weight, number-average molecular weight, viscosity-average molecular weight, peak molecular weight, polydispersity index and molecular-weight-distribution shape. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the determined property is selected from the group consisting of composition and conversion. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein the determined property is particle size. 20. The method of claim 8 wherein the property is detected with a detector selected from the group consisting of a refractive-index detector, an ultraviolet-visual detector, a photodiode array detector, a static-light-scattering detector, a dynamic-light-scattering detector, an evaporative-light-scattering detector and a capillary viscometer detector. 21. The method of claim 13 wherein the chromatographic column comprises a stationary-phase and the polymer samples are separated by introducing the samples onto the stationary phase and subsequently eluting the samples or components thereof with the mobile-phase eluant, the method further comprising controlling the column geometry, stationary-phase, eluant composition, eluant temperature or eluant flow rate such that the sample-throughput is not more than about 10 minutes per sample. 22. A liquid chromatography system for characterizing a polymer sample, the system comprising an enclosure defining a heated environment, the heated environment being maintained at a temperature of not less than about 75.degree. C., a chromatographic column residing in the heated environment, the chromatographic column comprising a surface defining a pressurizable separation cavity, an inlet port for receiving a mobile phase and for supplying a polymer sample to the separation cavity, an effluent port for discharging the mobile phase and the polymer sample or separated components thereof from the separation cavity, and a stationary-phase within the separation cavity, an injection port adaptable for fluid communication with the chromatographic column for injecting polymer samples into the mobile phase, a first reservoir for containing a first mobile phase fluid, a second reservoir for containing a second mobile phase fluid, a mixing zone adaptable for fluid communication with the first reservoir and the second reservoir for mixing of the first and second mobile phases to form a mobile-phase eluant having compositions or temperatures that can vary over time, the mixing zone being further adaptable for fluid communication with the inlet port of the chromatographic column for eluting one or more sample components of the sample with the mobile-phase eluant to separate at least one sample component of the sample from other sample components thereof, and a detector in fluid communication with the effluent port of the chromatographic column for detecting a property of at least one of the sample components. 23. The system of claim 22 further comprising a third reservoir for containing a third mobile-phase fluid, the third reservoir being adaptable for fluid communication with the mixing zone for mixing of the third mobile-phase fluid with one or both of the first or second mobile-phase fluids. 24. The system of claim 22 wherein the mixing zone is directly upstream of the column inlet port. 25. The system of claim 22 wherein the column comprises two inlet ports and the mixing zone is within the column. 