The invention provides a method for representing a device color gamut as a detail directed hierarchical distance field. A distance field representing the device color gamut is enclosed with a bounding box. The enclosed distance field is partitioned into a plurality of cells. Each cell has a size corresponding to detail of the continuous distance field and a location with respect to the bounding box. A set of values of the enclosed distance field is sampled for each cell. A method for reconstructing the portion of the distance field enclosed by the cell is specified. The size, the location, the set of values, and the method for reconstructing is stored in a memory to enable reconstruction of the device color gamut by applying the reconstruction methods of the cells to the values.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for representing a color gamut as a detail directed hierarchical distance field, comprising the steps of: generating a distance field for the color gamut; enclosing the distance field with a bounding box; partitioning the enclosed continuous distance field into a plurality of cells, each cell having a size corresponding to detail of the continuous distance field and a location with respect to the bounding box; sampling, for each cell, a set of values of the enclosed continuous distance field; specifying, for each cell, a method for reconstructing the portion of the continuous distance field enclosed by the cell; and storing, for each cell, the size, the location, the set of values, and the method for reconstructing in a memory to enable reconstruction of the color gamut by applying the reconstruction methods of the cells to the values. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the values include signed distances to a surface of the color gamut, and further comprising the steps of: identifying cells entirely outside the color gamut as exterior cells; identifying cells entirely inside the color gamut as interior cells; and identifying cells intersecting the surface of the color gamut as surface cells. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the values include signed distances to a surface of the color gamut, and further comprising the steps of: selecting an arbitrary point in the enclosed distance field; identifying a particular cell enclosing the selected point; evaluating the reconstruction method of the identified cell using the values of the identified cell to determine a smallest distance from the arbitrary point to the surface of the color gamut. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the arbitrary point is outside the surface when the smallest distance is negative, inside the surface when the distance is positive, and on the surface when the distance is zero. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the values include signed distances to a surface of the color gamut, and further comprising the steps of: selecting an arbitrary point in the enclosed distance field; and locating a closest point on the surface of the color gamut to the arbitrary point. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the detail of the distance field is determined by a gradient of the distance field. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein a particular value of the set includes a partial derivative of the distance field. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the values include signed distances to a surface of the color gamut, and further comprising the steps of: selecting an arbitrary point in the enclosed distance field; identifying a particular cell enclosing the selected point; evaluating the reconstruction method of the identified cell using the values of the identified cell to determine a partial derivative of the distance field at the arbitrary point. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: terminating the partitioning when a predetermined detail of the surface is reached. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: limiting the number of times a particular cell is partitioned. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the partitioning further comprises the steps of: partitioning, in a top-down manner, the bounding box such that each partitioning yields smaller sized cells until a portion of the distance field enclosed by each cell can substantially be reconstructed by the method for reconstructing to a predetermined surface representation error. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the partitioning further comprises the steps of: partitioning the bounding box into equal sized cells such that a portion of the distance field enclosed by each cell can substantially be reconstructed by the method for reconstructing to a predetermined surface representation error; and combining, in a bottom-up manner, groups of neighboring cells into larger cells as long as the portion of the distance field enclosed by the larger cell can substantially be reconstructed to the surface representation error. 