An apparatus for holding and orienting a wafer having an alignment feature, and including a movable robot arm; and an end effector attached to an end of the robot arm, the end effector including a gripping mechanism which during operation both holds the wafer and rotates it about an axis that is perpendicular to the plane of the wafer and a sensing element for detecting the alignment feature on the wafer as the gripping mechanism rotates the wafer past the sensing element.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for holding and orienting a wafer having an alignment feature, said apparatus comprising: a movable robot arm; and an end effector attached to an end of the robot arm, said end effector including a gripping mechanism which during operation both holds the wafer and rotates it about an axis that is perpendicular to the plane of the wafer and a sensing element for detecting the alignment feature on the wafer as the gripping mechanism rotates the wafer past the sensing element; wherein the gripping mechanism comprises a first contacting member, a second contacting member, and a drive element which increases and decreases the space between the first and second contacting members in response to a control signal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first and second contacting members are arranged to grip opposing edges of the wafer. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a controller which during operation controls the end effector and causes the end effector to rotate the wafer. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the controller controls the end effector to cause the end effector to rotate the wafer while the robot arm is moving the wafer. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the sensing element comprises a light emitter and a light detector. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the light emitter and the light detector are positioned to lie on opposite sides of the wafer when the wafer is being held by the gripping mechanism. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the sensing element senses the orientation by detecting a feature on the perimeter of the wafer as the wafer is rotated. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first contacting member comprises a first roller element. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the gripping mechanism further comprises a drive motor which rotates the first roller element. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the second contacting member comprises second and third roller elements separated in space from each other. 11. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the gripping mechanism comprises a mechanical actuator which is coupled to and moves the first roller element towards and away from the second and third roller elements. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first roller element has a cylindrical-shaped outer surface with a circumferential groove formed therein. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first, second and third roller elements are arrayed in a common plane and have parallel axes of rotation. 14. An apparatus for holding and orienting a wafer having an alignment feature, said apparatus comprising: a movable robot arm having a working end and a base end; and an end effector attached to the working end of the robot arm, said end effector including a gripping mechanism which during operation both holds the wafer and rotates the wafer relative to the end effector and about an axis that is perpendicular to the plane of the wafer and a sensing element for detecting the alignment feature on the wafer as the gripping mechanism rotates the wafer past the sensing element, wherein the robot arm is configured to move the wafer laterally relative to the axis, wherein the gripping mechanism comprises three contacting members which during operation contact the edges of the wafer, wherein the contacting members are separated in space from each other to hold the wafer. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein one of the contacting members is a drive member and the gripping mechanism further comprises a drive motor which rotates the drive member. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the gripping mechanism further comprises: a mechanical actuator which is coupled to and moves the drive member towards and away from the other two contacting members. 