The invention provides spiro[pyrrolidine-2,3'-oxindole] compounds and libraries of these compounds produced by the stereo- and regio-selective reaction of variously substituted isatins, .alpha.-amino acids, and dipolarophiles (e.g., trans-chalcones, acrylate esters, or vinyl oxindoles). The new libraries can be assayed using any of many known screening procedures for activity, e.g., biological activity. For example, the libraries can be screened for activity as drugs (e.g., anticancer drugs, antibiotics, antiviral drugs, antiinflammatory drugs, analgesics, immunomodulators, neuroleptics, sedatives, stimulants, or diagnostic aids), bioseparation agents, or pesticides (e.g., herbicides, insecticides, or rodenticides).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of synthesizing a library of compounds, the method comprising: reacting a plurality of isatins with a plurality of .alpha.-amino acids to form azomethine ylide compounds; and reacting the azomethine ylide compounds with a plurality of dipolarophiles to form the library of compounds, wherein said dipolarophiles are selected from the group consisting of fumarates, maleates, cinnamontriles, nitroolefins, acrylonitriles, vinyl sulfones, and vinyl sulfoxides. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said azomethine ylide compounds are prepared in situ in the presence of said plurality of dipolarophiles. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said library of compounds is prepared in a single compound-per-well format. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said library of compounds comprises at least ten compounds. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said library of compounds comprises at least one thousand compounds. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said library of compounds comprises at least ten thousand compounds. 7. A method of synthesizing a library of compounds, the method comprising: reacting a plurality of isatins with a plurality of .alpha.-amino acids to form azomethine ylide compounds; and reacting the azomethine ylide compounds with a plurality of dipolarophiles to form the library of compounds, wherein said dipolarophiles are chalcones. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said plurality of chalcones is prepared by reacting a plurality of arylaldehydes, independently, with a plurality of acetophenone compounds. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein said azomethine ylide compounds are prepared in situ in the presence of said plurality of dipolarophiles. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein said library of compounds is prepared in a single compound-per-well format. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein said library comprises at least ten compounds. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein said library comprises at least one thousand compounds. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein said library comprises at least ten thousand compounds. 