A workpiece loader/unloader system for an industrial machine, such as a hemmer, is disclosed. The system includes a single pocket shuttle movable between an extended position in which the shuttle overlies a work station on the industrial machine, and a retracted position in which the shuttle is laterally spaced from the work station. A gripper on the shuttle selectively engages and supports the workpiece after the workpiece has been machined at the work station. A loader manipulator is movable between a preload position in which the loader supports an unmachined workpiece at a position laterally spaced from the work station, and a load position in which the loader manipulator overlies the work station. An actuator moves the loader manipulator between the preload and load position. Furthermore, the loader manipulator mechanically engages the shuttle and simultaneously moves the shuttle from its extended position and to its retracted position as the loader manipulator moves from its preload and to its load position. A passive system, such as a spring, returns the shuttle from its retracted and to its extended position.
Claims I claim: 1. A workpiece loader/unloader system for an industrial machine, said industrial machine having a work station into which unmachined workpieces are sequentially loaded, machined and removed, said loader/unloader system comprising: a shuttle movable between an extended position in which said shuttle overlies the work station and a retracted position in which said shuttle is laterally spaced from said work station, at least one gripper mounted to said shuttle which selectively engages and supports the workpiece after the workpiece has been machined at the work station, a loader manipulator movable between a preload position in which said loader manipulator supports an unmachined workpiece at a position laterally spaced from the work station and a load position in which said loader manipulator overlies the work station, an actuator which moves said loader manipulator between said preload and said load positions, wherein said loader manipulator mechanically engages said shuttle and simultaneously moves said shuttle from said extended position to said retracted position as said loader manipulator moves from said preload to said load position. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising passive means for moving said shuttle assembly from said retracted to said extended position. 3. The invention as defined in claim 2 wherein said passive means comprises a spring. 4. The invention as defined in claim 2 and comprising means for selectively retaining said shuttle in said retracted position. 5. The invention as defined in claim 4 wherein the means for selectively retaining said shuttle is activated by a stationary actuator. 6. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said shuttle includes a receiving recess and wherein said loader manipulator comprises a pin which, when positioned in said receiving recess, mechanically locks said loader manipulator and said shuttle together so that said shuttle and said loader manipulator move in unison with each other along an axis of movement of said shuttle. 7. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said at least one gripper is positioned below and supports a lower surface of the machined workpiece and comprising an unloader manipulator which removes the machined part from said shuttle when said shuttle is in said retracted position. 8. The invention as defined in claim 7 wherein said at least one gripper can be retracted by a stationary actuator. 9. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein such loader/unloader system allows one robot to achieve all handling. 10. The invention as defined in claim 3 whereas said spring comprises a mechanical spring. 11. The invention as defined in claim 3 wherein said spring comprises an air spring. 