A robotic manipulator having a gripping tool assembly for separating a thin sheet of metal from a stack of metal sheets. The assembly comprises a frame mounted to a lift arm. A separating device is pivotally mounted to the frame for grasping and lifting a corner of the top metal sheet to create an initial separation of the sheet from the stack. A plurality of stationary suction lifters are secured to the frame for grasping and lifting the remaining portions of the top sheet. The gripping tool assembly is characterized by first and second air hoses or nozzles mounted to the frame with the first air nozzle positioned above the second air nozzle whereby the first air nozzle provides pressurized air toward the corner of the sheet to assist in the initial separation of the sheet and the second air nozzle provides pressurized air below the sheet after the initial separation of the sheet from the stack. The subject invention also includes a method comprising the steps of; affixing the stationary suction lifters and the separating device to the top sheet, actuating the separating device to lift the corner of the sheet to create the initial separation between the sheet and the stack, and the method is characterized by dispensing pressurized air toward the corner of the top sheet simultaneously with the actuating of the separating device and dispensing pressurized air below the top sheet after the initial separation of the sheet from the stack.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic manipulator having a gripping tool assembly for separating an uppermost sheet of material from a stack of material, said assembly comprising; a lift arm, a frame fixedly mounted to said lift arm, at least one separating device movably mounted to said frame for grasping and lifting a peripheral portion of the uppermost sheet of material to create an initial separation of the uppermost sheet of material from the stack of material, and at least one stationary suction lifter fixedly secured to said frame for grasping and lifting the remaining portions of the uppermost sheet of material after said initial separation of the uppermost sheet of material, said assembly characterized by first and second air hoses mounted to said frame with said first air hose positioned above said second air hose whereby said first air hose provides pressurized air toward the periphery of the uppermost sheet of material to assist in said initial separation of the uppermost sheet of material and said second air hose provides pressurized air below the uppermost sheet of material after said initial separation of the uppermost sheet of material. 2. An assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first air hose extends outwardly from said frame, curls inward toward said frame and is substantially aligned with said separating device. 3. An assembly as set forth in claim 2 wherein said second air hose extends outwardly from said frame, curls inward toward said frame and is disposed below said separating device for dispensing pressurized air between the uppermost sheet of material and the stack of material. 4. An assembly as set forth in claim 3 further including a sensor mounted to said frame and disposed adjacent said separating device for detecting if one or more sheets of material are being lifted during said initial separation of the uppermost sheet of material. 5. An assembly as set forth in claim 3 wherein said separating device includes a separating suction lifter for grasping and lifting the peripheral portion of the uppermost sheet of material. 6. An assembly as set forth in claim 5 wherein said separating device further includes a lever arm interconnecting said separating suction lifter to said frame for moving said separating suction lifter between a first position substantially level with said at least one stationary suction lifters and a second position raised above said at least one stationary suction lifters. 7. An assembly as set forth in claim 6 wherein said separating device further includes a pneumatic cylinder for facilitating said movement of said lever arm. 8. An assembly as set forth in claim 5 wherein said at least one stationary suction lifter includes a plurality of stationary suction lifters spaced about said frame for providing a substantially equidistant grasping force during said lifting of the uppermost sheet of material. 9. An assembly as set forth in claim 8 further including a plurality of vacuum lines connected to said stationary suction lifters and said separating suction lifter for providing a vacuum between said suction lifters and the uppermost sheet of material to securely fasten said suction lifters to the uppermost sheet of material. 10. A method of separating an uppermost sheet of material from a stack of material utilizing a movable separating device and a plurality of stationary suction lifters, said method comprising the steps of; affixing the stationary suction lifters to the uppermost sheet of material, affixing the separating device to the uppermost sheet of material, and actuating the separating device to lift a peripheral portion of the uppermost sheet of material to create an initial separation between the uppermost sheet and the stack of material, said method characterized by dispensing pressurized air toward the periphery of the uppermost sheet of material simultaneously with the actuating of the separating device and dispensing pressurized air below the uppermost sheet of material after the initial separation of the uppermost sheet of material. 11. A method as set forth in claim 10 wherein the actuating of the separating device is further defined as moving the separating device between a first position substantially level with the stationary suction lifters and a second position raised above the stationary suction lifters until the peripheral portion of the uppermost sheet of material has detached from the stack of material. 12. A method as set forth in claim 11 wherein the affixing of the stationary suction lifters is further defined as applying a vacuum between the stationary suction lifters and the uppermost sheet of material to securely fasten the stationary suction lifters to the uppermost sheet of material. 13. A method as set forth in claim 12 wherein the affixing of the separating device is further defined as applying a vacuum between the separating device and the uppermost sheet of material to securely fasten the separating device to the uppermost sheet of material. 14. A method as set forth in claim 13 further including detecting the number of sheets of material being lifted during the initial separation of the uppermost sheet of material to ensure that only the uppermost sheet of material is being separated from the stack of material. 15. A method as set forth in claim 14 further including recycling the separating device between the first and second positions until only the uppermost sheet of material is separated from the stack of material. 16. A method as set forth in claim 15 further including lifting and completely separating the uppermost sheet of material from the stack of material. 17. A method as set forth in claim 16 further including transporting the uppermost sheet of material to a position away from the stack of material. 