A machine and process for packaging armed sutures into tray packages. The machine has a frame with a rotatable indexing disc member mounted to the top of frame. A plurality of tool nests are rotatably mounted to the top of the indexing disc. Tray packages mounted in the tool nests are rotated to wind sutures into a suture channel in the packages. A stylus having a front nose member and a rear heel member guides suture into the suture channel.
Claims We claim: 1. A machine for winding suture into a suture tray package comprising: a machine frame having a top, a bottom, sides and an interior; a disc member rotatably mounted to the top of the frame, said disc member having a periphery, top, a bottom and a side about the periphery of the disc member; a plurality of tool nests, each tool nest rotatably mounted to the top of the disc member, said tool nests comprising: a nest frame, having a top, a bottom and sides; and, at least two winding pin members extending up from the top of the nest frame; a rotatable tool mounted to the machine frame, said tool being displaceable downwardly to engage with the pin members on the nest frame, such that rotation of the tool will rotate the tool nest; and, a stylus member movably mounted to the machine frame, for cooperation with the tool nests, comprising: a stylus frame having a top, sides and a bottom; a stylus mounted to the bottom of the stylus frame having a front nose member and a rear heel member separated by a suture opening, said stylus having a top surface; and, a door closing member extending down from the bottom of the stylus frame adjacent to the stylus. 2. The combination of a suture tray package and a packaging machine, comprising I. a packaging machine comprising: a machine frame having a top, a bottom, sides and an interior; a disc member rotatably mounted to the top of the frame, said disc member having a periphery, top, a bottom and a side about the periphery of the disc member; a plurality of tool nests, each tool nest rotatably mounted to the top of the disc member, said tool nests comprising: a nest frame, having a top, a bottom and sides; and, at least two winding pin members extending up from the top of the nest frame; a rotatable tool mounted to the machine frame, said tool being displaceable downwardly to engage with the pin members on the nest frame, such that rotation of the tool will rotate the tool nest; and, a stylus member movably mounted to the machine frame, for cooperation with the tool nests, comprising: a stylus frame having a top, sides and a bottom; a stylus mounted to the bottom of the stylus frame having a front nose member and a rear heel member separated by a suture opening, said stylus having a top surface; and, a door closing member extending down from the bottom of the stylus frame adjacent to the stylus; and II. a suture tray package comprising: a flat base member having a top and an outer periphery; an outer wall extending up from the base member about the periphery of the base member; an inner wall, interior to the outer wall, extending up from the top of the base member, said inner wall having a top and said inner wall space away from the outer wall to form a suture channel; a plurality of doors extending from the top of the inner wall over the winding channel; and, at least two needle park members extending up from the top of the base member, said needle park members located interior to the inner wall, wherein the tray package is mounted in the tool nest. 3. A method of winding a double armed suture in a tray package, the method comprising: I. providing a tray package, the tray package comprising: a flat base member having a top and an outer periphery; an outer wall extending up from the base member about the periphery of the base member; an inner wall, interior to the outer wall, extending up from the top of the base member, said inner wall having a top and said inner wall space away from the outer wall to form a suture channel; a plurality of doors extending from the top of the inner wall over the winding channel; and, at least two needle park members extending up from the top of the base member, said needle park members located interior to the inner wall; II. providing a packaging machine, the packaging machine comprising: a machine frame having a top, a bottom, sides and an interior; a disc member rotatably mounted to the top of the frame, said disc member having a periphery, top, a bottom and a side about the periphery of the disc member; a plurality of tool nests, each tool nest rotatably mounted to the top of the disc member, said tool nests comprising: a nest frame, having a top, a bottom and sides; and, at least two winding pin members extending up from the top of the nest frame; a rotatable tool mounted to the machine frame, said tool being displaceable downwardly to engage with the pin members on the nest frame, such that rotation of the tool will rotate the tool nest; and, a stylus member movably mounted to the machine frame, for cooperation with the tool nests, comprising: a stylus frame having a top, sides and a bottom; a stylus mounted to the bottom of the stylus frame having a front nose member and a rear heel member separated by a suture opening, said stylus having a top surface; and, a door closing member extending down from the bottom of the stylus frame adjacent to the stylus. III. providing a double-armed surgical suture comprising a suture having opposed ends, and having a surgical needle mounted to each end; IV. mounting the surgical needles in the needle parks; and V. indexing the disc to a winding station where the rotatable tool is located, engaging the nest with the rotatable tool, inserting the stylus into the suture channel, and rotating the tool nest and package to wind the suture in the suture channel. 