A multiple station processing chamber used to deposit and/or remove a material on a semiconductor wafer is described. The multiple station processing chamber is comprised of two or more processing stations at which the wafer is exposed to a processing fluid. The processing stations are positioned within the chamber such that the wafer may be moved from station to station while remaining within the chamber. Each station of the multiple station processing chamber may have a fluid containment ring used for containment, disposal, and/or reuse of the electrolyte used to process the wafer at that particular processing station. The wafer is brought to the first processing station on a wafer support and exposed to a first processing fluid, which is then diverted into fluid containment ring for the first processing station. The wafer is then moved to a second processing chamber where the process is repeated with a second processing fluid.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for processing a substrate in a multiple station processing chamber, comprising the steps of: placing a substrate to be processed on a support, said substrate having an upper surface and a lower surface; raising said support such that said substrate is positioned at a first processing station in the chamber; applying a first processing fluid to said upper surface of said substrate; lowering said support such that said substrate is positioned at a second processing station in the chamber, the second processing station coupled to the first processing station; and, applying a second processing fluid to said upper surface of said substrate. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of applying said first processing fluid includes applying an electrolyte for electropolishing said substrate. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of applying said first processing fluid includes applying an electrolyte for electroplating said substrate. 4. The method of claim 1 further including the step of applying a gas flow to said lower surface of said substrate such that said first and second processing fluids are prevented from contacting said lower surface of said substrate. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of lowering said support includes moving said support through a center of the second processing station. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising diverting said first processing fluid into a first containment ring after applying said first processing fluid to said upper surface. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising diverting said second processing fluid into a second containment ring after applying said second processing fluid to said upper surface. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing a gas flow from a gas purge line in said support to prevent said first processing fluid from contacting said lower surface of said substrate. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing a gas flow from a gas purge line in said support to prevent said second processing fluid from contacting said lower surface of said substrate. 