One aspect of the invention is directed to an autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus having a chassis, a drive mechanism mounted to the said chassis by a suspension, and a substantially rigid shell movably mounted to the chassis. The suspension includes a resilient member interposed between the drive mechanism and the chassis so that when the shell is pushed toward the supporting surface with a predetermined force the resilient member compresses to permit the drive mechanism to move and the shell and/or the chassis to contact the supporting surface. A second aspect of the invention is directed to the movable support of shell relative to the chassis. The shell is supported by a plurality of elongated elastic supports received within plurality of elongated openings in the chassis. Preferably, a passive portion of a collision detection sensor is attached to a central portion of the shell. A third aspect of the invention is directed to a non-skid lower edge member movably attached to the shell to adjust a clearance between the non-skid lower edge member and the supporting surface. A fourth aspect of the invention is directed to a vacant volume that defines a module receiving area adapted to removeably receive a surface treatment module, preferably a plurality of types of surface treatment modules including a pressure adjusting module. A fifth aspect of the invention is directed to a surface treatment module adapted to be removably received in a surface treatment module receiving area of an autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus.
Claims We claim: 1. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus for treating a supporting surface, comprising: a chassis; a drive mechanism mounted to said chassis by a suspension; a substantially rigid shell movably mounted to said chassis; said suspension including a resilient member interposed between said drive mechanism and said chassis so that when said shell is pushed toward the supporting surface with a predetermined force said resilient member compresses to permit said drive mechanism to move relative to said chassis and at least one of said shell and said chassis to contact the supporting surface. 2. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said suspension includes a sensor that senses when said resilient member has reached a predetermined compressed position. 3. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said suspension is movably mounted to said chassis so that when the autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus is lifted away from the supporting surface said drive mechanism moves toward the supporting surface. 4. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein said resilient member expands toward a predetermined extended position when the autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus is lifted away from the supporting surface and wherein said suspension includes a sensor that senses when said resilient member has reached said predetermined extended position. 5. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising a sensor that senses when the autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus is lifted away from the supporting surface. 6. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said shell includes a non-skid lower edge member that contacts the supporting surface when said shell is pushed toward the supportieng surface with a predetermined force. 7. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus for treating a supporting surface, comprising: a chassis having a plurality of elongated openings; a substantially rigid shell omni directionally movably attached to said chassis by a plurality of elongated supports received in said plurality of elongated openings. 8. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein the autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus has an overall height of less than 3.5 inches measured from the supporting surface to a top surface of said shell. 9. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein said shell is rotationally movably attached to said chassis, whereby said shell can move rotationally relative to said chassis. 10. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 7, further comprising a non-skid lower edge member attached to said shell adjacent to the supporting surface, wherein said non-skid lower edge member extends beyond the periphery of said shell. 11. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein a clearance between said non-skid lower edge member and the supporting surface is less than 0.33 inches. 12. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein said shell is substantially cylindrical and has a substantially circular top, further comprising a collision detection sensor having a passive portion attached to said top of said shell and an active portion attached to said chassis. 13. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein said passive portion of said collision detection sensor includes a conductive disk and said active portion of said collision detection sensor includes at least three electrical contact sensors. 14. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein said passive portion of said collision detection sensor includes a reflective disk and said active portion of said collision detection sensor includes at least three optical receiving sensors. 15. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein said shell is substantially cylindrical and further comprising a plurality of brushes attached to at least one of said shell and said chassis and extending beyond the radius of said shell. 16. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus for treating a supporting surface, comprising: a chassis; a substantially rigid shell movably attached to said chassis; a non-skid lower edge member movably attached to said shell to adjust a clearance between said non-skid lower edge member and the supporting surface. 17. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 16, wherein said clearance is less than 0.33 inches. 18. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus for treating a supporting surface, comprising: a chassis having a vacant volume that defines a surface treatment module receiving area adapted to removably receive any one of a plurality of types of surface treatment modules wherein said surface treatment module receiving area includes a slot that is adapted to permit the surface treatment module to move substantially freely in the direction of said slot; and a drive mechanism attached to said chassis. 19. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus for treating a supporting surface, comprising: a surface treatment module having a surface treating pad; a chassis having a volume that defines a surface treatment module receiving area in which said surface treatment module is removeably received; and a drive mechanism attached to the chassis; wherein said surface treatment module is provided with an attachment mechanism adapted to removeably attach sheet-type surface treating means to said surface treating pad, said sheet-type surface treating means is an oil-wetted polymer cloth. 20. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 19, wherein said attachment mechanism includes a plurality of attachment points having pie-shaped sections for receiving the sheet-type surface treating means. 21. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 19, wherein said surface treatment module includes a pair of elastic protrusions each slideably received in a slot provided in a wall of said surface treatment module receiving area. 22. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus for treating a supporting surface, comprising: a surface treatment module having a surface treating pad; a chassis having a volume that defines a surface treatment module receiving area in which said surface treatment module is removeably received; and a drive mechanism attached to the chassis; wherein said surface treatment module includes a pressure adjusting mechanism whereby said surface treating pad applies an adjustable pressure to the supporting surface. 23. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 22, wherein the pressure applied to the supporting surface by said surface treating pad is adjusted based on a frictional characteristic of the supporting surface. 24. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 22, wherein the pressure applied to the supporting surface by said surface treating pad is adjusted by changing the height of a hydraulic head. 25. A surface treatment module adapted to be removably received in a surface treatment module receiving area of an autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus, comprising: a vertical member having a first end and a second end; and a surface treating pad attached to said second end of said vertical member; wherein said surface treatment module is provided with an attachment mechanism adapted to removeably attach sheet-type surface treating means to said surface treating pad, said sheet-type surface treating means is an oil-wetted polymer cloth. 26. A surface treatment module as recited in claim 25, wherein said vertical member includes a pair of elastic protrusions at said first end each adapted to be slideably received in a slot provided in a wall of the surface treatment module receiving area of the autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus. 27. A surface treatment module as recited in claim 25, wherein said attachment mechanism includes a plurality of attachment points having pie-shaped sections for receiving the sheet-type surface treating means. 28. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus for treating a supporting surface, comprising: a chassis; a drive mechanism mounted to said chassis by a suspension; said suspension allowing said chassis to contact the supporting surface when the autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus is subjected to a force toward the supporting surface greater than the weight of the autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus. 29. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 28, further comprising at least one sensor to sense said force or movement of said suspension. 30. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus for treating a supporting surface, comprising: a chassis; a drive mechanism mounted to said chassis; a fluid container mounted to said chassis and adapted to contain a fluid; a porous element removably mounted to said chassis and disposed so as to contact said supporting surface; a flow control device interposed between said fluid container and said porous element; and a microcontroller operatively connected to said flow control device to control delivery of the fluid from said fluid container to said porous element. 31. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 30, wherein said microcontroller controls the flow rate to the fluid based on a characteristic of the supporting surface. 32. An autonomous mobile surface treating apparatus as recited in claim 30, wherein said porous element is a porous sheet-type surface treating means. 