The present invention relates generally to an improved laser welded work piece, such as an automotive body panel, and a system and method for the manufacture thereof. The invention is also directed to an improved system for manufacturing the welded work piece including an improved laser welder and a laser weld inspection device and system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laser welder for welding a pair of work pieces of dissimilar thickness, comprising: a laser weld head configured to movably project a laser beam onto a minimized gap formed between a pair of adjacent, substantially flat and substantially horizontally-oriented work pieces of dissimilar thickness formed with respective precision sheared edges that are positioned in an abutting relationship and are exposed to the laser weld head, which is operative to weld the precision sheared edges by forming a weld bead seam therebetween; wherein the laser beam is incident on the gap with a compound angle, measured relative to the vertical direction substantially normal to the work pieces, that includes a leading angle component substantially in the direction of movement of the laser weld beam and a leaning component substantially in the direction normal to the gap and leaning towards one of the work pieces away from the vertical direction; and wherein the laser beam is focused upon the work pieces to have between about 70% and about 85% of its cross-sectional area incident upon the thinner work piece. 2. The laser welder according to claim 1 wherein the laser beam is moved along the gap to form the weld bead seam at a speed of between approximately 4 and approximately 10 meters per minute. 3. The laser welder according to claim 1 wherein the laser beam is moved along the gap to form the weld bead seam at a speed of approximately 7 meters per minute. 4. The laser welder according to claim 1 wherein the leading angle component is between approximately 5 degrees and approximately 15 degrees. 5. The laser welder according to claim 1 wherein the leading angle component is approximately 10 degrees. 6. The laser welder according to claim 1 wherein the leaning angle component is between approximately 3 degrees and approximately 7 degrees. 7. The laser welder according to claim 1 wherein the leaning angle component is approximately 5 degrees. 8. The laser welder according to claim 1 wherein the laser beam is focused on the work pieces to have approximately 75% of its cross-sectional area incident upon one side of the gap and on one of the work pieces. 9. The laser welder according to claim 1 wherein the minimized gap is between approximately zero and 0.08 millimeters. 10. The laser welder according to claim 1 wherein the minimized gap is approximately 0.04 millimeters. 11. The laser welder according to claim 1 wherein the laser beam is energized by a non-pulsed, continuous laser. 12. The laser welder according to claim 11 wherein the laser beam is energized by a Nd-YAG laser. 