The present invention provides a method for detecting a target nucleic acid species including the steps of providing an array of probes affixed to a substrate and a plurality of labeled probes wherein each labeled probe is selected to have a first nucleic acid sequence which is complementary to a first portion of a target nucleic acid and wherein the nucleic acid sequence of at least one probe affixed to the substrate is complementary to a second portion of the nucleic acid sequence of the target, the second portion being adjacent to the first portion; applying a target nucleic acid to the array under suitable conditions for hybridization of probe sequences to complementary sequences; introducing a labeled probe to the array; hybridizing a probe affixed to the substrate to the target nucleic acid; hybridizing the labeled probe to the target nucleic acid; affixing the labeled probe to an adjacently hybridized probe in the array; and detecting the labeled probe affixed to the probe in the array.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A three dimensional array of oligonucleotide probes comprising a multiplicity of sheets layered to form a plurality of levels, each sheet having affixed thereto in two dimensions a plurality of oligonucleotide probes, said probes affixed to each sheet at discreet positions in a grid of rows and columns on each sheet, thereby forming a three-dimensional array of oligonucleotide probes. 2. The array of claim 1, further comprising a material that forms a physical barrier, wherein the material is disposed on the multiplicity of sheets to form a plurality of wells. 3. The array of claim 2 wherein the plurality of oligonucleotide probes are affixed to the multiplicity of sheets at spots in the wells. 4. The array of claim 3, wherein each individual spot has probes with sequences that are different from the other probes at the other spots in the array. 5. The array of claim 4, wherein the probes in each individual spot have the same sequence. 6. A sequencing chip comprising a plurality of arrays of claim 1. 7. A sequencing chip comprising a plurality of arrays of claim 4. 8. A sequencing chip comprising a plurality of arrays of claim 5. 9. The array of claim 1, wherein the oligonucleotide probes disposed on one sheet may be analyzed separately from probes disposed on other sheets. 10. The array of claim 1, wherein the oligonucleotide probes disposed on different sheets may be analyzed simultaneously. 