Robot arm (16) end effectors (10, 110, 210) of this invention rapidly and cleanly transfer semiconductor wafers (12) between a wafer cassette (14) and a processing station. The end effectors include proximal and distal rest pads (24, 26, 124, 126) having pad and backstop portions (32, 34, 132, 134) that support and grip the wafer either by wafer peripheral edge contact or within an annular exclusion zone (30) that extends inward from a peripheral edge of the wafer. An active contact point (50, 150, 222) is movable by a vacuum actuated piston (52, 152) between a retracted wafer-loading position and an extended position that urges the wafer against the distal rest pads to grip the wafer at its edge or within the exclusion zone. The end effector further includes fiber optic light transmission sensors (90, 102, 202, 214) for determining various wafer surface, edge, thickness, tilt, and location parameters. The sensors provide robot arm extension and elevation positioning data supporting methods of rapidly and accurately placing and retrieving a wafer from among a stack of closely spaced wafers stored in the wafer cassette. The methods effectively prevent accidental contact between the end effector and the wafers while effecting clean, secure gripping of the wafer at its edge or within its exclusion zone.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of aligning a robot arm to which an end effector is operatively coupled with a specimen stored on or in a container, the robot arm being positionable in at least two dimensions and the specimen having a periphery, comprising: providing an end effector having a body operatively connected Lo a light source and a light receiver, the light source and light receiver having spaced-apart respective source light path and receiver light path openings between which a light beam propagates along a straight line light transmission pathway; finding for a first robot arm position a first maximum robot arm distance between a reference and a first corresponding point on the periphery of the specimen at which the light transmission pathway of the light beam is not interrupted by intersection with the specimen; finding for a second robot arm position a second maximum robot arm distance between the reference and a second corresponding point on the periphery of the specimen at which the light transmission pathway of the light beam is not interrupted by intersection with the specimen, the first and second robot arm positions being different from each other; recording first and second position information corresponding to the respective first and second maximum robot arm distances; and determining from the first and second position information a robot arm aligned position that represents a minimum distance between the reference and the periphery of the specimen. 2. The method of claim 1, in which the robot arm is positionable about a shoulder axis and along an r-axis path intersecting the shoulder axis, in which the first and second robot arm positions constitute respective first and second robot arm angular positions, and in which the finding of the first maximum robot arm distance includes: positioning the robot arm along the r-axis path until the specimen interrupts the light transmission pathway with the robot arm set to the first robot arm angular position; and upon the interruption of the light transmission pathway with the robot arm set at the first robot arm angular position, positioning the robot arm along the r-axis path to find the first point on the periphery of the specimen and record the first information corresponding to the first maximum robot arm distance at the first point. 3. The method of claim 2, in which the robot arm is positionable along an elevation path parallel to the shoulder axis, and further comprising positioning the robot arm along the elevation path during the positioning of the robot arm along the r-axis path until the specimen interrupts the light transmission pathway. 4. The method of claim 2, in which the shoulder axis constitutes the reference location. 5. The method of claim 1, in which the determining of the robot arm aligned position includes a mathematical derivation of the minimum distance by using the first and second maximum robot arm distances corresponding to the respective first and second robot arm positions to compute a robot arm position to which the minimum distance corresponds. 6. The method of claim 1, in which the reference is a shoulder axis about which the robot arm is positionable and the robot arm is extensible and retractable along an r-axis path intersecting the shoulder axis, in which the first and second robot arm positions constitute respective first and second robot arm angular positions, and in which the finding of the first and second maximum robot arm distances includes: setting the robot arm to the first and second robot arm angular positions; for the robot arm set to each of the first and second robot arm angular positions, extending the robot arm along the r-axis path until the specimen interrupts the light transmission pathway; when the specimen interrupts the light transmission pathway with the robot arm set at the first robot arm angular position, retracting the robot arm along the r-axis path to find a first radius at which the specimen no longer interrupts the light transmission pathway and thereby find the first point on the periphery of the specimen and record the first information corresponding to the first maximum robot arm distance at the first point; and when the specimen interrupts the light transmission pathway with the robot arm set at the second robot arm angular position, retracting the robot arm along the r-axis path to find a second radius at which the specimen no longer interrupts the light transmission pathway and thereby find the second point on the periphery of the specimen and record the second information corresponding to the second maximum robot arm distance at the second point. 7. The method of claim 6, in which the determining of the robot arm aligned position includes a mathematical derivation of the minimum distance by using the first and second maximum robot arm distances corresponding to the respective first and second robot arm angular positions to compute a robot arm angular position to which the minimum distance corresponds. 8. The method of claim 6, in which the shoulder axis constitutes the reference location. 