A method and apparatus for reacting a plurality of different mixtures in parallel in a semi-batch or continuous mode is provided. Each reaction is contained within a reactor vessel, the reactor vessels combined into a reactor block. Reactant(s) to be added during the reaction are kept in a header barrel, which has a plunger to feed reactant(s) from the header barrel through a transfer line into the reactor vessel. The plunger is moved using a drive system. The header barrels are optionally combined in a header block. The header block is sealed to a plate containing the transfer lines, which in turn is sealed to the reactor block. A latch mechanism is provided for easy sealing of the reactor and header blocks to the plate. The entire apparatus may be placed on a rocker or rotating plate for mixture as the reaction is proceeding.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, comprising: a reactor block comprising a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels for containing a plurality of starting materials, a header block comprising at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid reactants, a transfer plate between the reactor block and the header block, the transfer plate comprising a plurality of transfer lines corresponding to the plurality of reactor vessels, the plurality of transfer lines providing fluid communication between the plurality of reactor vessels and the at least one header barrel, a reactor seal between the reactor block and the transfer plate for sealing the plurality of reactors, a header seal between the header block and the transfer plate for sealing the at least one header barrel, and a transfer system for feeding the one or more reactants from the at least one header barrel through the plurality of transfer lines into the plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction. 2. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein the plurality of reactor vessels are a plurality of removable vessels, and the reactor block comprises a plurality of wells for receiving the plurality of removable vessels. 3. The parallel reactor of claim 2, wherein said plurality of wells further comprises a spring loaded bottom comprising a corresponding plurality of spring pretensioners moveably attached to the bottom of said reactor block and a spring such that when the plurality of removable vessels is inside said wells, said plurality of removable vessels contacts the spring pre-tensioners and is forced upward by the spring against said seal between said transfer line and reactor vessel. 4. The parallel reactor of claim 3, further comprising a plurality of springs corresponding to said plurality of spring pre-tensioners, with an individual spring for an individual removable vessel. 5. The parallel reactor of claim 1, wherein said plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least 6 reactor vessels. 6. The parallel reactor of claim 1, wherein said plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least 96 reactor vessels. 7. The parallel reactor of claim 1, wherein the header block comprises a plurality of header barrels corresponding to the plurality of reactor vessels and said plurality of transfer lines. 8. The parallel reactor of claim 7 wherein the plurality of header barrels are removable header barrels, and the header block comprises a plurality of header wells for receiving the plurality of removable header barrels. 9. The parallel reactor of claim 8, wherein said plurality of header wells further comprises a spring loaded top comprising a corresponding plurality of header springs that match the diameter of the plurality of removable header barrels and a top to the header block so that when said plurality of removable header barrels contacts the header spring, the removable header barrels are forced downward by the spring against said seal between said transfer line and header barrel. 10. The parallel reactor of claim 7, wherein said plurality of header barrels comprises at least 6 header barrels. 11. The parallel reactor of claim 7, wherein said plurality of header barrels comprises at least 96 header barrels. 12. The parallel reactor of claim 7 wherein the transfer system comprises a plurality of plungers corresponding to the plurality of header barrels, with each of the plurality of plungers running through the corresponding header barrel and having a tip that forms a seal with the inside of said header barrel, such that forward movement of the plunger feeds reactant(s) from said header barrel through said transfer line and into said corresponding reactor vessel. 13. The parallel reactor of claim 12 wherein each plunger in said plurality of plungers has a top that is attached to a plunger plate, such that all plungers in the plurality move simultaneously when said plunger plate is moved. 14. The parallel reactor of claim 2, wherein the plurality of header barrels are a plurality of removable header barrels, and the header block comprises a plurality of header wells for receiving the removable header barrels. 15. The parallel reactor of claim 13 further comprising a drive mechanism comprising a frame having a center support; a moveable carriage at one end of said center support and extending from the center support at about a right angle from said center support; a fixed arm at the other end of the center support also extending from said center support at an about a right angle and wherein said frame is sized to receive the bottom of said reactor block at the fixed arm side and the top of said plunger plate at said moveable carriage side; and a motor linked to said moveable carriage; whereby said motor causes said moveable carriage to force said plunger plate down so that said plurality of plungers move simultaneously and said fixed arm resists said feed to contain the reactor block in said frame. 16. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein said reactor seal comprises a gasket adapted such that a seal is formed by pressing a lip of said reactor vessel into said gasket that receives said lip. 17. The parallel reactor of claim 16, wherein said gasket is a sheet with a plurality of perforations, wherein said plurality of perforations correspond to said plurality of transfer lines and said plurality of reactor vessels such that when said reactor vessel lip is tightened up against said gasket, said gasket conforms to said lip as an end of said transfer line extends into said vessel. 18. The parallel reactor of claim 16, wherein said gasket fits into a channel cut into said plate, with said channel having a tapered portion for receiving said reactor vessel lip. 19. The parallel reactor of claim 18, further comprising a second inert gasket between said gasket and said reactor vessel lip. 20. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein said reactor seal comprises a spool having a center opening therethrough and an o-ring around the outside diameter of said spool, wherein said reactor vessel lip presses up against said spool compressing said o-ring to form said reactor seal. 21. The parallel reactor of claim 20, wherein said spool fits into a channel cut into said plate. 22. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein said reactor seal comprises a tapered portion-having a raised portion of a channel cut into said plate, wherein said reactor seal is formed by snapping the inner diameter of said reactor vessel onto said raised portion of said tapered portion. 23. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein said header seal comprises a gasket adapted such that a header seal is formed by pressing a lip of said header barrel into said gasket that receives said lip. 24. The parallel reactor of claim 23 wherein said gasket is a sheet with a plurality of perforations, wherein said plurality of perforations correspond to said plurality of transfer lines and said plurality of header barrels such that when said header barrel lip is tightened up against said gasket, said gasket conforms to said lip as an end of said transfer line extends into said barrel. 25. The parallel reactor of claim 24, wherein said gasket fits into a channel cut into said plate, with said channel having a tapered portion for receiving said header barrel lip. 26. The parallel reactor of claim 25, further comprising a second inert gasket between said gasket and said header barrel lip. 27. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein said header seal comprises a spool having an center opening therethrough and an o-ring around the outside diameter of said spool, wherein said header barrel lip presses up against said spool compressing said o-ring to form said header seal. 28. The parallel reactor of claim 27, wherein said spool fits into a channel cut into said plate. 29. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein said header seal comprises a tapered portion having a raised portion of a channel cut into said plate and a collar associated with said header barrel, wherein said header seal is formed by snapping the inner diameter of said collar of said header barrel onto said raised portion of said tapered portion. 30. The parallel reactor of claim 1, wherein said plurality of transfer lines comprises tubing. 31. The parallel reactor of claim 1 further comprising: a robotic starting material handling system coupled to a 3-axis translation stage, wherein said starting material handling system robotically loads said plurality of starting materials into said plurality of reactor vessels; and a processor coupled to said robotic starting material handling system, said processor controlling a location of said starting material handling system relative to said plurality of reactor vessels and controlling said predetermined ratios. 32. The parallel reactor of claim 31, wherein said starting material handling system is a metering pipette. 33. The parallel reactor of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of reactor vessel modules, wherein a portion of said plurality of reactor vessels correspond to each of said reactor vessel modules. 34. The parallel reactor of claim 1, wherein said starting materials are comprised of polymeric starting materials, and wherein said polymeric starting materials are selected from the group consisting of catalysts, activators, initiators, co-initiators, monomers, co-monomers and solvents. 35. The parallel reactor of claim 1, further comprising a temperature control system comprising at least one temperature sensor associated with at least one of said plurality of reactor vessels. 36. The parallel reactor of claim 35, wherein said temperature control system comprises a plurality of temperature sensor corresponding to said plurality of reactor vessels. 37. The parallel reactor of claim 36, wherein said temperature control system further comprising at least one heater that heats at least one of said plurality of reaction vessels. 38. The parallel reactor of claim 37, wherein said temperature control system comprises a plurality of heaters corresponding to said plurality of reactor vessels, said plurality of heaters providing individual control of a corresponding temperature for each of said reactor vessels. 39. The parallel reactor of claim 37, further comprising a reactor block for containing said plurality of reactor vessels and further comprising one or more coolant passages within said reactor block, wherein a coolant flowing through said one or more coolant passages provides cooling for said plurality of reactor vessels. 40. The parallel reactor of claim 38, wherein said heaters are temperature dependent resistors, said temperature dependent resistors coupled to a processor, wherein said processor calculates an amount of heat produced as a function of time within each reactor vessel. 41. The parallel reactor of claim 40, said temperature control system further comprising a plurality of temperature sensors coupled to a processor, wherein a first portion of said plurality of temperature sensors are coupled to said plurality of reactor vessels and a second portion of said plurality of temperature sensors are coupled to a reactor block for containing said plurality of reactor vessels, and wherein said processor determines an amount of heat produced as a function of time within each reactor vessel based on a reactor vessel temperature, a reactor block temperature, and a thermal conductivity between said reactor vessels and said reactor block. 42. The parallel reactor of claim 41, said temperature control system further comprising one or more coolant passages within said reactor block, wherein a coolant flowing through said plurality of coolant passages simultaneously cools said plurality of reactor vessels. 43. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein each reactor vessel of said plurality of reactor vessels has a variable volume. 44. The parallel reactor of claim 43 further comprising a plurality of reactor plungers, with each reactor plunger running through a reactor vessel of said plurality of reactor vessels and with each of said reactor plungers having a tip that forms a seal with the inside of said reactor vessel, such that when said reactor plunger is moved backward the volume of said reactor vessel is increased. 45. The parallel reactor of claim 44 wherein each reactor plunger in said plurality of reactor plungers has a top that is attached to a plunger plate, such that all plungers in the plurality move simultaneously when said plunger plate is moved. 46. A parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, comprising: a reactor block comprising a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels for containing a plurality of starting materials, a header block comprising at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid reactants, a transfer plate between the reactor block and the header block, the transfer plate comprising a plurality of transfer lines corresponding to the plurality of reactor vessels, the plurality of transfer lines providing fluid communication between the plurality of reactor vessels and the at least one header barrel, a reactor seal between the reactor block and the transfer plate for sealing the plurality of reactors, a header seal between the header block and the transfer plate for sealing the at least one header barrel, and a transfer system for feeding the one or more reactants from the at least one header barrel through the plurality of transfer lines into like plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction, wherein the header block comprises at least 2 header barrels each containing at least one liquid reactant and the transfer plate comprises transfer lines adapted to feed liquid reactant from each of the at least 2 header barrels into each of the plurality of reactor vessels during the reaction. 47. The parallel reactor of claim 46, wherein each of said 2 or more header barrels contains a different liquid reactant. 48. The parallel reactor of claim 47, wherein each of said different liquid reactant is independently selected from the group consisting of monomer, catalyst and solvent. 49. A parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, comprising: a reactor block comprising a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels for containing a plurality of starting materials, a header block comprising at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid reactants, a transfer plate between the reactor block and the header block, the transfer plate comprising a plurality of transfer lines corresponding to the plurality of reactor vessels, the plurality of transfer lines providing fluid communication between the plurality of reactor vessels and the at least one header barrel, a reactor seal between the reactor block and the transfer plate for sealing the plurality of reactors, a header seal between the header block and the transfer plate for sealing the at least one header barrel, and a transfer system for feeding the one or more reactants from the at least one header barrel through the plurality of transfer lines into the plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction, wherein the transfer system is adapted to feed the one more reactants in parallel into the plurality of reaction vessels during the reaction. 50. The parallel reactor of claim 49, wherein the transfer system comprises a plurality of pumps. 51. A parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, comprising: a reactor block comprising a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels for containing a plurality of starting materials, a header block comprising at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid reactants, a transfer plate between the reactor block and the header block, the transfer plate comprising a plurality of transfer lines corresponding to the plurality of reactor vessels, the plurality of transfer lines providing fluid communication between the plurality of reactor vessels and the at least one header barrel, a reactor seal between the reactor block and the transfer plate for sealing the plurality of reactors, a header seal between the header block and the transfer plate for sealing the at least one header barrel, a transfer system for feeding the one or more reactants fin the at least one header barrel through the plurality of transfer lines into the plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction, and a removable fastener for attaching either said reactor block or said header block or both to said transfer plate. 52. The parallel reactor of claim 51, wherein the removable fastener is selected from the group consisting of bolts, clamps, and clips. 53. The parallel reactor of claim 51, wherein the removable fastener comprises a latch mechanism, said latch mechanism comprising: at least one latch pin fixed to said plate with said latch pin having a tip; at least one latch drum associated with said reactor block, with said latch drum comprising at least one socket for receiving said tip of said latch pin; and a means for rotating said latch drum, such that when said latch pin tip is inserted into said latch drum socket said means rotates said latch drum thereby locking said latch pin to said latch drum in said socket and thereby locking said plate to said reactor block. 54. The parallel reactor of claim 53, wherein said means for rotating said latch drum is manual rotation of a hand crank. 55. The parallel reactor of claim 53, wherein an end of said latch drum extends out of a side of said reactor block and said means for rotating said latch drum comprises: a latch arm attached to an end of the latch drum outside; an over-center link pivotally attached to the latch drum arm; a gear having teeth also pivotally attached to the over-center link; and an input shaft concentrically mounted over a pinion having teeth, which is mounted on a side of the reactor block, with the teeth of the pinion meshed with the teeth of the gear; wherein rotating the input shaft, rotates the pinion, which moves the over center link, which rotates the latch arm, causing the latch drum to rotate, engage the tip of said one or more latch pins and securing said plate to said reactor block. 56. A parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, comprising: a reactor block comprising a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels for containing a plurality of starting materials, a temperature control system comprising at least one temperature sensor associated with at least one of the plurality of reactor vessels, said temperature control system further comprising a reactor block heater, wherein said reactor block heater simultaneously heats all of said plurality of reactor vessels, a header block comprising at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid reactants, a transfer plate between the reactor block and the header block, the transfer plate comprising a plurality of transfer lines corresponding to the plurality of reactor vessels, the plurality of transfer lines providing fluid communication between the plurality of reactor vessels and the at least one header barrel, a reactor seal between the reactor block and the transfer plate for sealing the plurality of reactors, a header seal between the header block and the transfer plate for sealing the at least one header barrel, and a transfer system for feeding the one or more reactants from the at least one header barrel through the plurality of transfer lines into the plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction. 57. The parallel reactor of claim 56, said temperature control system further comprising a plurality of coolant passages within said reactor block, wherein a coolant flowing through said plurality of coolant passages provides individual control of a corresponding temperature for each of said plurality of reactor vessels. 58. A parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, comprising: a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels for containing a plurality of starting materials, the plurality of reactor vessels having a variable volume, at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid reactants, and a transfer system for feeding one or more reactants from the at least one header barrel into the plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction. 59. The parallel reactor of claim 58 wherein the volume of the plurality of reactor vessels is controllable. 60. The parallel reactor of claim 58 wherein the plurality of reactor vessels comprises at least 6 reactor vessels. 61. The parallel reactor of claim 58 wherein the plurality of reactor vessels comprises at least 6 reactor vessels, and the at least one header barrel comprises 6 header barrels corresponding to the plurality of reactor vessels. 62. A parallel reactor comprising a reactor block, the reactor block comprising a plurality of removable reactor vessels for containing one or more starting materials of a chemical reaction, and a plurality of wells, each of the plurality of wells being sized to receive one of the removable reactor vessels, and each of the plurality of wells having a spring loaded bottom, a plate secured to the reactor block such that the plurality of removable reactor vessels are sealed, and one or more spring pretensioners comprising one or more springs for providing a force to the spring loaded bottoms of the wells such that the reactor vessels are forced against the plate to seal the reactor vessels, the one or more spring pretensioners being adapted to allow different spring tensions. 63. The parallel reactor of claim 62 further comprising a plate secured to the reactor block such that the plurality of removable reactor vessels are sealed, and a plurality of spring pre-tensioners corresponding to the plurality of spring-loaded bottoms of the plurality of wells, each of the plurality of spring pre-tensioners being attached to the well bottoms and moveably attached to the reactor block by a spring such that when the plurality of reactor vessels are sealed inside the wells by the plate, the reactor vessels are forced upward against the plate. 64. The parallel reactor of claim 62 wherein the removable reactor vessels are glass vials. 65. The parallel reactor of claim 62 wherein the plurality of wells comprises at least six wells and the plurality of removable reactor vessels comprises at least 6 reactor vessels. 66. A parallel reactor comprising a reactor block, the reactor block comprising a plurality of removable reactor vessels for containing one or more starting materials of a chemical reaction, the reactor vessels being semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels, and a plurality of wells, each of the plurality of wells being sized to receive one of the removable reactor vessels, and each of the plurality of wells having a spring loaded bottom, such that the top of the reactor vessels are forced against a seal to seal the reactor vessels, at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid reactants, and a transfer system for feeding one or more reactants from the at least one header barrel through a plurality of transfer lines and into the plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction. 67. A parallel reactor comprising a reactor block, the reactor block comprising a plurality of removable reactor vessels for containing one or more starting materials of a chemical reaction, and a plurality of wells, each of the plurality of wells being sized to receive one of the removable reactor vessels, and each of the plurality of wells having a spring loaded bottom, wherein the plurality of wells comprises at least 96 wells and the plurality of removable reactor vessels comprises at least 96 reactor vessels, a plate secured to the reactor block such that the plurality of removable reactor vessels are sealed, and a plurality of spring pre-tensioners corresponding to the plurality of spring-loaded bottoms of the plurality of wells, the spring pretensioners comprising one or more springs for providing a force to the spring loaded bottoms of the wells such that the reactor vessels are forced against the plate to seal the reactor vessels, the spring pretensioners being adapted to allow different spring tensions. 68. A parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, comprising a reaction block comprising a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous sealed, removable reactor vessels for containing a plurality of starting materials, and a plurality of wells for receiving the plurality of removable vessels, multiple header barrels for containing liquid reactants, each of the multiple header barrels being in fluid communication with each of the plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction, and a transfer system comprising, for each of the multiple header barrels (i) a pump, (ii) a feed line providing fluid communication between the header barrel and the pump, and (iii) transfer lines providing fluid communication between the pump and each of the plurality of sealed reactor vessels, whereby multiple transfer lines individually feed to each of the plurality of sealed reactor vessels, so that the reactants can be fed simultaneously from the each of the multiple header barrels through the corresponding transfer lines into each of the plurality of sealed reactor vessels during the reaction. 69. The parallel reactor of claim 68 further comprising a plurality of starting materials contained in at least two of the plurality of reactor vessels, wherein the plurality of reactor vessels are different from each other with respect to the composition of the starting materials or the reaction conditions during the reaction. 70. The parallel reactor of claim 68 wherein the reactor block further comprises a plate secured to the reactor block such that the plurality of removable reactor vessels are sealed. 71. The parallel reactor of claim 70 wherein the plate is a transfer plate. 72. The parallel reactor of claim 70 wherein each of the plurality of wells comprise a spring loaded bottom, and the reactor block further comprises a plurality of spring pre-tensioners corresponding to the plurality of spring-loaded bottoms of the plurality of wells, each of the plurality of spring pre-tensioners contacting the well bottoms and being attached to the reactor block by a spring such that when the plurality of reactor vessels are sealed inside the wells by the plate, the reactor vessels are forced upward against the plate. 73. The parallel reactor of claim 68 wherein said plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least six reactor vessels. 74. The parallel reactor of claim 68 wherein said plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least forty-eight reactor vessels. 75. The parallel reactor of claim 68 wherein said plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least ninety-six reactor vessels. 76. A parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, comprising a plurality of semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels, multiple header barrels for containing one or more liquid feed components, each of the multiple header barrels being in fluid communication with each of the plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction, and a transfer system for feeding the one or more feed components from each of the multiple header barrels to each to each of the plurality of reactor vessels, the transfer system comprising, for each of the multiple header barrels: (i) a pump, (ii) a feed line providing fluid communication between the header barrel and the pump, and (iii) a transfer line providing selective fluid communication between the pump and each of the plurality of reactor vessels, the transfer line including a valve for serially directing flow into to each of the plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction. 77. The parallel reactor of claim 76 further comprising a reactor block having the plurality of reactor vessels. 78. The parallel reactor of claim 76 wherein said plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least six reactor vessels. 79. The parallel reactor of claim 76 wherein said plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least forty-eight reactor vessels. 80. The parallel reactor of claim 76 wherein said plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least ninety-six reactor vessels. 81. The parallel reactor of claim 67 wherein the removable reactor vessels are glass vials. 82. The parallel reactor of claim 62 or 67 wherein the one or more spring pretensioners allow different spring tensions for different reaction pressures, so that the pressure in the reactor vessels can be adjusted for a particular reaction. 83. The parallel reactor of claim 62 or 67 wherein the spring pretensioners are adapted to allow spring tensions for reactor vessel pressures ranging from atmospheric pressure to about 1000 psi. 84. The parallel reactor of claims 62 or 67 further comprising a seal associated with the plate. 85. The parallel reactor of claims 62 or 67 wherein the reactor vessels are semi-continuous or continuous reactor vessels, the reactor further comprising at least one header barrel for containing one or more liquid reactants, and a transfer system for feeding one or more reactants from the at least one header barrel through the plurality of transfer lines and into the plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction. 86. The parallel reactor of claim 1, further comprising a sealed chamber surrounding said plurality of reactor vessels. 87. The parallel reactor of claim 86, further comprising an inert gas within said sealed chamber. 88. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein each reactor vessel of said plurality of reactor vessels is a constant volume. 89. The parallel reactor of claim 88 further comprising a plurality of holding tanks corresponding to said plurality of reactor vessels; a plurality of second transfer lines for fluid communication between said plurality of reactor vessels and said plurality of holding tanks; and a second transfer means associated said plurality of holding tanks; wherein said second transfer means is adapted to remove at least some of the contents of said plurality of reactor vessels through said plurality of second transfer into said plurality of holding tanks. 90. The parallel reactor of claim 89, wherein said second transfer means comprises a plurality of plungers, with each plunger running through a holding tank of said plurality of holding tanks and with each of said plungers having a tip that forms a seal with the inside of said holding tank, such that when said plunger is moved backward contents are removed from said reactor vessel through said second transfer line and into said holding tank. 91. The parallel reactor of claim 90 wherein each plunger in said plurality of plungers has a top that is attached to a second plunger plate, such that all plungers in the plurality move simultaneously when said plunger plate is moved. 92. The parallel reactor of claim 89, wherein said second transfer means comprises a plurality of pumps corresponding to said plurality of second transfer lines. 