Systems for the manufacture of reinforcing preforms for structural composite products. The robotic application system allows use of a single robot in a multiple cell system, and provides offline programming of the robotic routine. The robot moves between the cells on a track system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for the manufacture of reinforcing preforms for structural composite molding, comprising: a first cell including a first mold member and a first air supply system; a second cell including a second mold member and a second air supply system; a robotic member for supplying reinforcing materials to each of the first and second mold members; a material supply system for providing reinforcing materials to said robotic member; and a track extending between said first and second cells; wherein said robotic member is positioned on said track and is able to move back and forth between said first and second cells. 2. The system as described in claim 1 further comprising sealing members in said first and second mold members for preventing air flow from disturbing reinforcing materials in said mold members when said mold members are being closed. 3. A system for the manufacture of reinforcing preforms for structural composite molding, comprising: a first cell including a first mold member; a second cell including a second mold member; a track member extending between said first and second cells; a robotic member for supplying reinforcing materials to said first and second mold members, said robotic member positioned on said track member and adapted to move back and forth between said first and second cell members; and means for programming said robotic member in order to supply the reinforcing materials to said first and second mold members in accordance with prespecified routines, said means for programming comprising software for programming said robotic member offline from said first and second mold members. 4. The system as described in claim 3 further comprising a material supply system for providing the reinforcing materials to said robotic member. 5. The system as described in claim 3 further comprising a first air supply system for supplying air to said first mold member and a second air supply system for supplying air to said second mold member. 6. The system as described in claim 3 wherein said software comprises at least a ROBCAD system. 