An apparatus for fabricating an integrated circuit device comprises an enclosure housing a processing chamber and having a gas inlet for receiving process gases into the processing chamber and a gas outlet for discharging the process gases. A pedestal is disposed within the processing chamber for supporting a wafer thereon. A chamber liner at least partially surrounds the pedestal and includes inner and outer portions. The inner portion comprises a material that is substantially resistant to the process gases at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C. The outer portion comprises an insulating material for decreasing a thermal gradient between the perimeter of the wafer and the enclosure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A chamber liner for a vapor deposition apparatus having an enclosure and a pedestal for supporting a wafer in the enclosure, the chamber liner comprising: an inner annular portion comprising a material that is substantially resistant to process gases containing fluorine or chlorine at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C., the inner annular portion being configured to at least partially surround a perimeter of the pedestal; and an outer annular portion disposed between an interior surface of the enclosure and the inner annular portion, the outer annular portion comprising a solid insulating material for insulating the inner annular portion from a chamber wall of the vapor deposition apparatus, the insulating material being different from the material of the inner annular portion, the inner annular portion and the outer annular portion being separate members that are assembled to form the chamber liner. 2. The chamber liner of claim 1 wherein the inner and outer portions are separate from each other. 3. The chamber liner of claim 1 wherein the outer portion has a thickness substantially greater than a thickness of the inner portion. 4. The chamber liner of claim 1 wherein the outer portion of the chamber liner comprises a material that is substantially resistant to cracking at temperatures above about 400.degree. C. 5. The chamber liner of claim 1 wherein the inner portion of the chamber liner comprises a material that is substantially resistant to the process gases at temperatures of at least about 600.degree. C. without reacting with the process gases. 6. The chamber liner of claim 1 wherein the inner portion of the chamber liner is substantially resistant to reactions with the process gases and to deposition by the process gases. 7. The chamber liner of claim 1 wherein the inner portion of the chamber liner is substantially resistant to etching by fluorine-containing compounds at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C. 8. The chamber liner of claim 1 wherein said inner portion of the chamber liner comprises a ceramic material. 9. The chamber liner of claim 8 wherein the inner portion of the chamber liner comprises aluminum oxide. 10. The chamber liner of claim 8 wherein the outer portion of the chamber liner comprises a material selected from the group consisting of aluminum and aluminum alloys. 11. The chamber liner of claim 1 wherein the outer portion of the chamber liner comprises a material from the group consisting of aluminum and aluminum alloys. 12. The chamber liner of claim 1 wherein the inner portion of the liner has a thickness of about 0.2-0.3 inch and the outer portion has a thickness of about 0.8-1.2 inch. 13. The chamber liner of claim 1 wherein the insulating material of the outer portion is more resistant to cracking than the material of the inner portion. 14. An apparatus for fabricating an integrated circuit device comprising: an enclosure housing a processing chamber and having a gas inlet for receiving process gases containing fluorine or chlorine into the processing chamber and a gas outlet for discharging the process gases; a pedestal disposed within the processing chamber for supporting a wafer thereon; and a chamber liner at least partially surrounding the pedestal and including inner and outer portions, the inner portion comprising a material that is substantially resistant to the process gases containing fluorine or chlorine at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C., and the outer portion disposed between the inner portion and an interior surface of the enclosure and comprising a solid insulating material, the insulating material being different from the material of the inner portion, the inner portion and the outer portion being separate members that are assembled to form the chamber liner. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the inner and outer portions of the chamber liner each comprise separate components positioned adjacent each other in the processing chamber, the outer portion having a thickness substantially greater than a thickness of the inner portion. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the outer portion of the chamber liner comprises a thermally insulating air gap spacing the inner portion away from the enclosure. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the inner portion of the chamber liner comprises a material that is substantially resistant to reactions with the process gases and to deposition thereon at temperatures of at least about 600.degree. C. 18. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising a gas inlet for receiving cleaning gases comprising one or more fluorine-containing compounds, wherein said inner portion of the chamber liner is substantially resistant to etching by the fluorine-containing compounds at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C. 19. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said inner portion of the chamber liner comprises aluminum oxide. 20. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the process gases are selected from the group consisting of TEOS, NF.sub.3, nitrogen, ozone, oxygen, TEPO, and TEB. 21. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the outer portion of the chamber liner comprises a material from the group consisting of aluminum and aluminum alloys. 22. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the insulating material of the outer portion is more resistant to cracking than the material of the inner portion. 23. A chamber liner for a vapor deposition apparatus having an enclosure and a pedestal for supporting a wafer in the enclosure, the chamber liner comprising: an inner annular portion comprising a material that is substantially resistant to process gases containing fluorine or chlorine at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C.; and an outer annular portion disposed adjacent the inner annular portion and comprising a solid insulating material, the insulating material being different from the material of the inner annular portion, the inner annular portion and the outer annular portion being separate members that are assembled to form the chamber liner, wherein the outer portion of the chamber liner defines one or more air gaps therein to increase the thermal insulation provided by the outer portion. 24. A chamber liner for a vapor deposition apparatus having an enclosure and a pedestal for supporting a wafer in the enclosure, the chamber liner comprising: an inner annular portion comprising a material that is substantially resistant to process gases containing fluorine or chlorine at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C.; an outer annular portion disposed adjacent the inner annular portion and comprising a solid insulating material, the insulating material being different from the material of the inner annular portion, the inner annular portion and the outer annular portion being separate members that are assembled to form the chamber liner; and a cover overlying at least the outer portion of the chamber liner, the cover comprising a ceramic material. 25. An apparatus for fabricating an integrated circuit device comprising: an enclosure housing a processing chamber and having a gas inlet for receiving process gases containing fluorine or chlorine into the processing chamber and a gas outlet for discharging the process gases; a pedestal disposed within the processing chamber for supporting a wafer thereon; and a chamber liner at least partially surrounding the pedestal and including inner and outer portions, the inner portion comprising a material that is substantially resistant to the process gases containing fluorine or chlorine at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C., and the outer portion disposed between the inner portion and an interior surface of the enclosure and comprising a solid insulating material, the insulating material being different from the material of the inner portion, the inner portion and the outer portion being separate members that are assembled to form the chamber liner, wherein the outer portion of the chamber liner defines one or more air gaps therein to increase the thermal insulation provided by the outer portion. 26. A chamber liner for a vapor deposition apparatus having an enclosure and a pedestal for supporting a wafer in the enclosure, the chamber liner comprising: an inner portion comprising a material and being configured to at least partially surround a perimeter of the pedestal; and an outer portion disposed between an interior surface of the enclosure and the inner annular portion, the outer portion comprising a solid insulating material that is more resistant to cracking than the material of the inner portion, the inner portion and the outer portion being separate members that are assembled to form the chamber liner. 27. The chamber liner of claim 26 wherein the inner portion comprises a ceramic material and the outer portion comprises a metal. 