The present invention is directed to an improved electroplating method, chemistry, and apparatus for selectively depositing tin/lead solder bumps and other structures at a high deposition rate pursuant to manufacturing a microelectronic device from a workpiece, such as a semiconductor wafer. An apparatus for plating solder on a microelectronic workpiece in accordance with one aspect of the present invention comprises a reactor chamber containing an electroplating solution having free ions of tin and lead for plating onto the workpiece. A chemical delivery system is used to deliver the electroplating solution to the reactor chamber at a high flow rate. A workpiece support is used that includes a contact assembly for providing electroplating power to a surface at a side of the workpiece that is to be plated. The contact contacts the workpiece at a large plurality of discrete contact points that isolated from exposure to the electroplating solution. An anode, preferably a consumable anode, is spaced from the workpiece support within the reaction chamber and is in contact with the electroplating solution. In accordance with one embodiment the electroplating solution comprises a concentration of a lead compound, a concentration of a tin compound, water and methane sulfonic acid.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for plating solder on a microelectronic workpiece comprising: a reactor chamber adapted to hold an electroplating solution comprising an aqueous solution including a lead compound as a source of lead ions and a tin compound as a source of tin ions; a chemical delivery system adapted to provide the electroplating solution comprising the aqueous solution including the lead compound and the tin compound to the reactor chamber at a high flow rate; a workpiece support including a contact assembly for providing electroplating power to a surface at a side of the workpiece that is to be plated, the contact arranged for contacting the workpiece at a large plurality of discrete contact points, the contact points being isolated from exposure to the electroplating solution; a consumable anode comprised of a metal selected from the group consisting of tin and lead, the consumable anode being spaced from the workpiece support within the reaction chamber and positioned for contact with the electroplating solution. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the chemical delivery system is adapted to supply an electroplating solution that further comprises methane sulfonic acid. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 at wherein the consumable anode is comprised of lead. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the consumable anode is comprised of tin. 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim reference claim 1 wherein the contact assembly comprises: a plurality of contacts disposed to contact a peripheral edge of the surface of the workpiece, the plurality of contacts executing a wiping action against the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into engagement therewith, and a barrier disposed interior of the plurality of contacts and including a member disposed to engage the surface of the workpiece to effectively isolate the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution. 6. A reactor as claimed in claim 5 wherein the plurality of contacts are in the form of discrete flexures. 7. A reactor as claimed in claim 5 wherein the plurality of contacts are in the form a Belleville ring contact. 8. A reactor as claimed in claim 5 and further comprising a flow path disposed in the contact assembly, the flow path being adapted to provide a purging gas to the plurality of contacts and the peripheral edge of the workpiece. 9. A reactor as claimed in claim 8 wherein the flow path is connected to a source of purging gas to thereby assist in isolating the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution. 10. An apparatus for plating solder on a microelectronic workpiece comprising: a moveable head including a rotor and rotor drive adapted to rotate the workpiece during processing thereof; a processing base adapted to hold an aqueous electroplating solution including a concentration of lead ions and a concentration of tin ions; a chemical delivery system connected to deliver the aqueous electroplating solution including a concentration of lead ions and a concentration of tin ions to the processing base at a high flow rate; a contact assembly disposed on the rotor of the moveable head, the contact assembly providing electroplating power to a peripheral edge surface of a side of the workpiece that is to be plated, the contact assembly contacting the workpiece at a large plurality of discrete contact points, the contact points being sealed from exposure to the electroplating solution; an actuator disposed to move the moveable head between a loading position in which the workpiece may be placed for support on the rotor and into engagement with the contact, and a processing position in which the surface of the workpiece that is to be electroplated is brought into contact with the electroplating solution with the side of the wafer that is to be processed in a face down orientation during electroplating; a consumable anode disposed in the processing base and positioned for contact with the electroplating solution, the consumable anode comprising a metal selected from the group consisting of lead and tin. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein the chemical delivery system is adapted to provide an electroplating solution that further comprises methane sulfonic acid. 12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein the anode is comprised of lead. 13. An apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein the anode is comprised of tin. 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim reference claim 10 wherein the contact assembly comprises: a plurality of contacts disposed to contact a peripheral edge of the surface of the workpiece, the plurality of contacts executing a wiping action against the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into engagement therewith, and a barrier disposed interior of the plurality of contacts and including a member disposed to engage the surface of the workpiece to effectively isolate the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution. 15. A reactor as claimed in claim 14 wherein the plurality of contacts are in the form of discrete flexures. 16. A reactor as claimed in claim 14 wherein the plurality of contacts are in the form of a Belleville ring contact. 17. A reactor as claimed in claim 14 and further comprising a flow path disposed in the contact assembly, said flow path being adapted to conduct a flow of a purging gas to the plurality of contacts and the peripheral edge of the workpiece. 18. A reactor as claimed in claim 17 wherein the flow path is connected to a source of purging gas to thereby assist in isolating the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution. 