A removable pellicle for a lithographic mask that provides active and robust particle protection, and which utilizes a traditional pellicle and two deployments of thermophoretic protection to keep particles off the mask. The removable pellicle is removably attached via a retaining structure to the mask substrate by magnetic attraction with either contacting or non-contacting magnetic capture mechanisms. The pellicle retaining structural is composed of an anchor piece secured to the mask substrate and a frame member containing a pellicle. The anchor piece and the frame member are in removable contact or non-contact by the magnetic capture or latching mechanism. In one embodiment, the frame member is retained in a floating (non-contact) relation to the anchor piece by magnetic levitation. The frame member and the anchor piece are provided with thermophoretic fins which are interdigitated to prevent particles from reaching the patterned area of the mask. Also, the anchor piece and mask are maintained at a higher temperature than the frame member and pellicle which also prevents particles from reaching the patterned mask area by thermophoresis. The pellicle can be positioned over the mask to provide particle protection during mask handling, inspection, and pumpdown, but which can be removed manually or robotically for lithographic use of the mask.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A removable pellicle for lithographic masks, comprising: a first assembly adapted to be secured to a lithographic mask; and a second assembly removably mounted to said first assembly, said second assembly including a pellicle membrane, said first and second assemblies including thermophoretic particle protection means comprising a plurality of protruding fins mounted to said first assembly and to said second assembly, said fins being positioned with respect to each other to provide a labyrinthine path therethrough when said second assemblies are mounted to said first assembly. 2. The removable pellicle of claim 1, wherein said mask includes a patterned area and said first assembly and said second assembly are constructed to extend around said patterned area of said mask and wherein said protruding fins are located adjacent to said patterned area of said mask. 3. The removable pellicle of claim 1, wherein said thermophoretic particle protection means further includes means for heating said first assembly without substantial increase in temperature of said second assembly, such that particles generated by removal of or replacement of said second assembly are collected by the second assembly due to thermophoresis. 4. The removable pellicle of claim 3, wherein said means for heating said first assembly also heats said mask and wherein said first and second assemblies each include a plurality of protruding fins, said fins being interdigitated when said second assembly,is mounted onto said first assembly producing thereby a labyrinthine path therethrough, said fins on said first assembly being heated by said heating means to a temperature higher than a temperature of said fins on said second assembly thereby creating a thermophoretic effect along said labyrinthine path such that, particles passing therebetween are collected by said fins on said second assembly due to thermophoresis, and thereby protecting a patterned area of said mask, at atmosphere pressure and at sub-atmosphere pressure, from particles generated outside the first and second assemblies or generated when said second assembly is removed from said first assembly or when said second assembly is replaced on said first assembly. 5. A removable pellicle for protecting a patterned area of a lithographic mask from particles, comprising: an anchor piece secured to said mask and about the periphery of said patterned area; a holder piece to which is mounted a pellicle membrane, said anchor piece and said holder piece including thermophoretic particle protection means comprising a plurality of protruding fins mounted to said holder piece and to said anchor piece, said fins being positioned with respect to each other to provide a labyrinthine path therethrough when said holder piece are mounted to said anchor piece of said patterned area; and latching means for removably retaining said holder piece with respect to said anchor piece. 6. The removable pellicle of claim 5, wherein said latching means comprises a plurality of magnetic latches positioned in spaced relation about said anchor piece and said holder piece. 7. The removable pellicle of claim 6, wherein said plurality of magnetic latches consists of sets of magnetic north and south poles, each set of said north and south poles being mounted to said anchor piece and said holder piece. 8. The removable pellicle of claim 5, wherein said latching means comprises an array of magnets mounted to said anchor piece and an array of magnets mounted to said holder piece such that said holder piece is magnetically levitated above said anchor piece. 9. The removable pellicle of claim 5, wherein said means for producing thermophoretic particle protection of said patterned area comprises an array of interdigitated fins on said anchor piece and said holder piece. 10. The removable pellicle of claim 5, wherein said means for producing thermophoretic particle protection of said patterned area comprises means for maintaining said mask and said anchor piece at a temperature higher than said holder piece and said pellicle membrane. 11. The removable pellicle of claim 7, wherein the anchor piece is about flush to below flush with a top surface of said patterned area such that when said pellicle is removed said top surface is accessible to inspection and process instrumentation which require approaching said top surface to within about less than 10 microns. 12. The removable pellicle of claim 11, wherein said lithographic mask further comprises a mask substrate and wherein said holder piece comprises an elongated member extending over said substrate up to said patterned area, said elongated member and said substrate separated from each other by a fixed distance, said distance controlled by a low particle generating material layer placed between said anchor and said holder pieces, said elongated member and said substrate forming a thermophoretic barrier when a thermal gradient is created therebetween. 13. The removable pellicle of claim 1, wherein said second assembly is removably mounted to said first assembly by a latching mechanism. 14. The removable pellicle of claim 13, wherein said latching mechanism is of a magnetic type. 15. The removable pellicle of claim 14, wherein said magnetic type latching mechanism comprises magnetic attraction of north and south magnetic pole pieces mounted to said first and second assemblies. 16. The removable pellicle of claim 15, wherein said first and second assemblies are of a rectangular configuration and wherein at least one pair of north and south magnetic pole pieces are positioned in each of four sides of the assemblies. 17. The removable pellicle of claim 14, wherein said magnetic type latching mechanism comprises an array of magnets mounted to each of said first and second assemblies such that said second assembly is magnetically levitated above said first assembly. 18. The removable pellicle of claim 17, wherein said array of magnets mounted to said first assembly is configured to include an opening therein and wherein said array of magnets mounted to said second assembly is located within said opening in said array of magnets mounted to said first assembly. 19. The removable pellicle of claim 18, wherein said arrays of magnets are mounted with their magnetic poles oriented in opposition to each other. 20. The removable pellicle of claim 19, wherein said magnetic poles of each array of magnets are located along tapered surfaces to provide a three-axis stabilization of said second assembly with respect to said first assembly. 21. The removable pellicle of claim 13, wherein said latching mechanism is constructed to create substantially no particles when said second assembly is removed from or placed on said first assembly. 