The present invention provides a hyperspectral imaging apparatus and methods for employing such an apparatus for multi-dye/base detection of a nucleic acid molecule coupled to a solid surface.
Claims I claim: 1. A hyperspectral fluorescent imaging apparatus for microarray detection which comprises: (a) a light source, wherein the light source is capable of emitting a transmission beam for hyperspectral fluorescent imaging; (b) an expansion lens that expands the transmission beam for microarray detection; (c) a focusing lens that focuses the expanded transmission beam into a thin focus line for microarray detection; (d) a translation stage; (e) a collection lens that collects fluorescent light emitted at the thin focus line; an imaging spectrometer for hyperspectral fluorescent imaging; and (g) a detector. 2. A hyperspectral fluorescent imaging apparatus for microarray detection which comprises: (a) a light source, wherein the light source is capable of emitting a transmission beam for hyperspectral fluorescent imaging; (b) a first expansion lens and a second expansion lens that expand the transmission beam for microarray detection; (c) a focusing lens that focuses the expanded transmission beam into a thin focus line for microarray detection; (d) a collection lens that collects fluorescent light emitted at the thin focus line; (e) an imaging spectrometer for hyperspectral fluorescent imaging; and (f) a detector. 3. A hyperspectral fluorescent imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the detector is a charge coupled device. 4. A hyperspectral fluorescent imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the light source is a laser. 5. A hyperspectral fluorescent imaging apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the laser is a CW Ar laser. 6. A hyperspectral fluorescent imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus comprises a first expansion lens and a second expansion lens. 7. A hyperspectral fluorescent imaging apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the apparatus further comprises a translation stage. 8. A hyperspectral fluorescent imaging apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the detector is charge coupled device. 9. A hyperspectral fluorescent imaging apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the light source is a laser. 10. A hyperspectral fluorescent imaging apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the laser is a CW Ar laser. 