An elastic robot body in which a number of actuators are integrated. If the actuators are triggered individually or in groups, they exercise a force on the material of the body, so that the latter changes its shape. Integrated sensors or switches measure the momentary position of the body. An imitation hand, comprising such a body, can move its sections in a human fashion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A shapeable elastic body comprising: an elastic material; a plurality of narrowly spaced actuators embedded in said elastic material; a switch to activate said actuators individually or in groups; and a plurality of narrowly spaced sensors integrated into said elastic material; wherein the shape of said shapeable elastic body is the result of a summation of the state of activation of said actuators and at least one of said spaced sensors changes state when said shapeable elastic body changes shape. 2. An elastic body according to claim 1, wherein said actuators are configured in a two-dimensional actuator matrix embedded in said elastic material. 3. An elastic body according to claim 2, wherein said elastic body comprises two or more two-dimensional actuator matrices embedded in said elastic material. 4. An elastic body according to claim 1, wherein said elastic body is in the shape of a limb to form an elastic robot limb. 5. An elastic body according to claim 4, wherein a portion of said actuators comprise a balloon element; a liquid sealed within said balloon; and a means for heating said liquid to a gaseous state wherein activation of said means for heating heats said liquid sealed within said balloon to a gaseous state causing said balloon to expand to a larger volume. 6. A shapable elastic body according to claim 1, wherein said shapable elastic body is a lid having a peripheral edge for use with a container, wherein said actuators of said lid are remotely controllable for operating said actuators to lift said lid from said container and to seal said container in response to signals to said actuators. 7. A shapable elastic body according to claim 6, wherein said container includes a lip and wherein said lid includes actuators at said peripheral edge of said lid such that said lid can engage said lip in response to said signals to said actuators to cause tight engagement of said lid and container. 8. A shapable elastic body according to claim 7, wherein said tight engagement is further provided by actuators in said lid to wrap said peripheral edge of said lid around said lip. 9. An elastic body according to claim 4, wherein said actuators comprise materials having shape memory effect, said materials including thermo-metal-combinations or are working in an electromagnetic piezoelectric magnostrictive or electrostrictive way. 10. An elastic body according to claim 4, wherein a portion of said actuators comprise materials having a memory effect, said materials include electromagnetic materials. 11. An elastic body according to claim 4, wherein a portion of said actuators comprise materials having a memory effect, said materials including piezoelectric materials. 12. An elastic body according to claim 4, wherein a portion of said actuators comprise materials having a memory effect, said materials including magnostrictive materials. 13. An elastic body according to claim 4, wherein a portion of said actuators comprise materials having a memory effect, said materials including electrostrictive materials. 14. An elastic body according to claim 4, wherein a portion of said actuators are springs formed out of shape memory metal. 15. An elastic body according to claim 4, wherein said elastic material is foamed rubber. 16. An elastic body according to claim 4, wherein said elastic robot limb is the shape of a hand. 17. An elastic body according to claim 4, wherein said elastic robot limb comprises the shape of a body part. 18. An elastic body according to claim 9, wherein said actuators include a pair of peltier-elements first and second plates capable of bending in response to a change in temperature and means for heating said plates to change their temperature, and wherein said first plate is generally flat and said second plate is generally curved away from said first plate at one end thereof, and when said plates are heated, said first plate becomes generally flat and said second plate curves generally away from said first plate at one end thereof. 19. An elastic body according to claim 9, wherein said actuators include plates of shape-memory material and include resistors mounted on said actuators to transmit heat thereto. 20. A elastic body according to claim 4, wherein said actuators are plates formed out of shape-memory material having a peltier-element in-between them, such as the one bends down when the upper part of the peltier-element cools and one bends down when the lower part of the peltier-element heats up and visa versa. 21. An elastic body according to claim 4, wherein said elastic robot limb comprises said actuators, wherein said actuators are plates out of shape-memory material and that resistors designed as surface mounted devices are mounted on said actuators to heat these actuators. 