An autonomous downhole oilfield tool having its own mobility and decision making capability so that it may be deployed in a downhole environment to monitor and control said environment by modifying operations of other devices and maintaining downhole structures.
Claims We claim: 1. An autonomous downhole oilfield tool comprising: a) a body adapted to be delivered into a wellbore from the surface and be resident in the wellbore; b) a source of electrical power operatively associated with the body; c) at least one sensor associated with the body monitoring at least one operating parameter of the tool relative to its environment; d) a microprocessor associated with the body receiving data from the sensor; e) memory associated with the microprocessor providing information for operating instructions to the body; f) transport mechanism controlled by the microprocessor and moving the body within the wellbore; and g) an end work device associated with the body performing a desired function downhole h) other equipment operatively associated with the well bore having communications capability; and i) communications equipment associated with said body for communicating with said other equipment. 2. A downhole tool as set forth in claim 1 wherein said communications equipment associated with the body includes a transmitter for transmitting data to a receiver associated with other equipment operatively associated with the wellbore. 3. A downhole tool as set forth in claim 2 wherein the other equipment is selected from the group comprising a surface controller, a transceiver, downhole mechanical equipment, downhole sensors and a docking station. 4. A downhole tool as set forth in claim 1 wherein said communications equipment associated with the body includes a receiver for receiving data from a transmitter associated with other equipment operatively associated with the wellbore. 5. A downhole tool as set forth in claim 4, wherein the other equipment is selected from the group comprising a surface controller, a transceiver, downhole mechanical equipment, downhole sensors and a docking station. 6. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said end work device comprises at least one carrier detachably securing and transporting downhole equipment from a first location in the wellbore to a second location. 7. A downhole work system comprising: a) at least one autonomous downhole tool as claimed in claim 6; b) at least one stationary device in the wellbore having the ability to communicate with the autonomous tool and having access to equipment deliverable to said autonomous tool to facilitate said autonomous tool in carrying out a desired operation. 8. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said end work device comprises at least one mechanical tool performing mechanical operations on structures in the wellbore. 9. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said end work device comprises at least one sensor monitoring data in the wellbore, said sensor being selected from the group consisting of formation sensors, wellbore production fluid parameter sensors, and wellbore equipment sensors. 10. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 9 wherein said at least one sensor is an imaging system. 11. A downhole tool as set forth in claim 1 wherein the body and end work device together form an item of downhole equipment and operate with the wellbore structure to perform the desired function. 12. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 11 wherein said downhole equipment is selected from the group consisting of an autonomous packer, anchor, plug, valve, choke and diverter. 13. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said power source is self contained in association with said body of said tool. 14. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said transport mechanism utilizes magnetic propagation. 15. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said transport mechanism utilizes mechanical propagation. 16. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said transport mechanism utilizes fluid propagation. 17. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein said tool further includes a self-destruct mechanism breaking the body into small parts. 18. A downhole work system comprising: a plurality of the downhole tools as claimed in claim 1, with at least two of said plurality of downhole tools including a communications system, said communications system communicating with a plurality of other said downhole tools to accomplish a desired end. 19. A downhole work system comprising: a delivery system delivering the downhole tool of claim 1 to a predetermined location downhole and releasing the tool of claim 1 at said predetermined location. 20. The tool according to claim 1, wherein: the end work device is selected from a group consisting of a cutting device, milling device, welding device, explosive device, testing device, devive that is adapted to operate a preexisting device in the wellbore, formation evaluation device, charged-coupled device, perforating device, workover device, chemical injection device, testing device including a device to measure temperature, pressure, fluid flow rate, device to test the chemical properties of downhole fluids, device to test the physical properties of the fluids, a data gathering device, a device adapted to move materials within the wellbore, and a device to operate a preexisting device in the wellbore. 21. A monitoring control and work system for use in a wellbore comprising: A) an autonomous tool for operating in the wellbore including: i) a body adapted to be delivered into a wellbore from the surface and be resident in the wellbore; ii) a source of electrical power operatively associated with the body; iii) at least one sensor associated with the body monitoring at least one operating parameter of the tool relative to its environment; iv) a microprocessor associated with the body receiving data from the sensor; v) a memory associated with the microprocessor providing information for operating instructions to the body; vi) a transport mechanism controlled by the microprocessor and moving the body within the wellbore; and f) an end work device associated with the body performing a desired function downhole; and B) a docking station mounted in the wellbore at a predetermined location, said docking station cooperating with said autonomous tool to provide electrical power and data to the tool. 22. A monitorinh control and work system as claimed in claim 21 further including a guide for guiding said autonomous tool as it moves in the wellbore. 23. A monitoring control and work system as claimed in claim 21 wherein said autonomous tool is tethered to the docking station. 24. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 21 wherein said tool is electrically tethered to a remote point in the wellbore. 25. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 21 wherein said autonomous tool is a primary tool and includes cooperating secondary autonomous devices which are connected to said tether, said secondary devices traveling along said tether to a location defined by a predetermined set of parameters and then anchoring to a casing of a wellbore and causing said tether to feed therethrough to facilitate reduction of drag from said tether on said primary tool. 26. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 25 wherein said secondary autonomous devices include independent controllers. 27. A downhole monitoring and control system as claimed in claim 26 wherein said docking station includes a communication link to surface side or antoher location. 28. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 25 wherein said secondary autonomous device include tension measurement capability for measuring tension on said tether. 29. A downhole monitoring and control system for zone in a production well, comprising: a) at least one fixed sensor in said zone; b) at least one data gathering tool movable within said zone, said tool including an information uploader and downloader for communicating with said at least one fixed sensor. 30. A downhole monitoring and control system as claimed in claim 29 wherein said system further includes a docking station mounted within the wellbore capable for communicating with said data gathering tool. 31. A downhole device as claimed in claim 29 including a controller, said controller including programming to act as a command center for controlling downhole operations. 32. A downhole monitoring and control system as claimed in claim 29 wherein said wellbore has a plurality of fixed sensors. 33. An autonomous downhole oilfield tool comprising; a) a body adapted to be delivered into a wellbore from the surface and be resident in the wellbore; b) a source of electrical power operatively associated with the body; c) at least one sensor associated with the body monitoring at least one operating parameter of the tool relative to its environment; d) a microprocessor associated with the body receiving data from the sensor; e) memory associated with the microprocessor providing information for operating instructions to the body; f) transport mechanism controlled by the microprocessor and moving the body within the wellbore; g) at end work device associated with the body performing a desired function downhole, said end work device comprising at least one carrier detachably securing and transporting downhole equipment from a first location in the wellbore to a second location. 34. A downhole work system with at least one autonomous downhole tool as claimed in claim 33, and at least one stationary device in the wellbore having the ability to communicate with the autonomous tool having to facilitate said autonomous tool in carrying out a desired operation. 35. An autonomous downhole oilfield tool comprising: a) a body adapted to be delivered into a wellbore from the surface and be resident in the wellbore; b) a source of electrical power operatively associated with the body; c) at least one sensor associated with the body monitoring at least one operating parameter of the tool relative to its environment; d) a microprocessor associated with the body receiving data from the sensor; e) memory associated with the microprocessor providing information for operating instructions to the body; f) transport mechanism controlled by the microprocessor and moving the body within the wellbore; and j) an end work device associated with the body performing a desired function downhole, said end work device comprising at least one sensor monitoring data in the wellbore, said sensor being selected from the group consisting of formation sensors, wellbore production fluid parameter sensors, and wellbore equipment sensors. 36. A downhole tool as claimed in claim 35 wherein said at least one sensor is an imaging system. 37. An autonomous downhole oilfield tool comprising: a) a body adapted to be delivered into wellbore from the surface and be resident in the wellbore; b) a source of electrical power operatively associated with the body; c) at least one sensor associated with the body monitoring at least one operating parameter of the tool relative to its environment; d) a microprocessor associated with the body receiving data from the sensor; e) a memory asociated with the microprocessor providing information for operating instructions to the body; f) transport mechanism controlled by the microprocessor and moving the body within the wellbore by utilizing magnetic propagation; and g) an end work device associated with the body performing a desired function. 38. An autonomous downhole oilfield tool comprising: a) a body adapted to be delivered into wellbore from the surface and be resident in the wellbore; b) a source of electrical power operatively associated with the body; c) at least one sensor associated with the body monitoring at least one operating parameter of the tool relative to its environment; d) a microprocessor associated with the body receiving data from the sensor; e) memory associated with the microprocessor providing information for operating instructions to the body; f) transport mechanism controlled by the microprocessor and moving within the wellbore by utilizing fluid propogation; and g) an end work device associated with the body performing a desired function downhole. 39. An autonomous downhole oilfield tool comprising: a) a body adapted to be delivered into a wellbore from the surface and be resident in the wellbore; b) a source of electrical power operatively associated with the body; c) at least one sensor associated with the body monitoring at least one operating parameter of the tool relative to its environment; d) a microprocessor associated with the body receiving data from the sensor; e) memory associated with the microprocessor providing information for operating instructions to the body; f) transport mechanism controlled by the microprocessor and moving the body within the wellbore; g) an end work device associated with the body performing a desired function downhole; and h) a self-destruct mechanism breaking the body into small parts. 40. An autonomous downhole oilfield tool comprising: a) a body adapted to be delivered into a wellbore from the surface and be resident in the wellbore; b) a source of electrical power operatively associated with the body; c) at least one sensor associated with the body monitoring at least one operating parameter of the tool relative to its environment; d) a microprocessor associated with the body receiving data from the sensor; e) memory associated with the microprocessor providing information for operating instructions to the body; f) transport mechanism controlled by the microprocessor and moving the body within the wellbore; and g) an end work device associated with the body performing a desired function downhole the end work device is selected from a group consisting of a cutting device, milling device, welding device, explosive device, testing device, device that is adapted to operate a preexisting device in the wellbore, formation evaluation device, charge coupled device, perforating device, workover device, chemical injection device, testing device including a device to measure temperature, pressure, fluid flow rate, device to test the chemical properties of downhole fluids, device to test the physical properties of the fluids, a data gathering device, a device adapted to move materials within the wellbore, and a device to operate a preexisting device in the wellbore. 