An integrated die cast system is provided comprising a die casting machine, a servo-controlled ladle, a servo-controlled sprayer, a pick and place robot, an integrated controller, and a programming pendant. The die casting machine includes a die casting machine controller. The servo-controlled ladle includes a molten material ladle and a servo-motor arranged to cause the ladle to transfer molten material to an injection chamber of the die casting machine. The servo-controlled sprayer includes a sprayer assembly and a servo-motor arranged to orient the sprayer assembly proximate a die cavity of the die casting machine. The pick and place robot is arranged to access a die cavity of the die casting machine. The integrated controller is in communication with the die-casting machine controller, the servo-controlled ladle, the servo-controlled sprayer, and the pick and place robot. The integrated controller is programmed to (i) execute operational parameters of the servo-controlled ladle, (ii) execute operational parameters of the servo-controlled sprayer, (iii) execute operational parameters of the pick and place robot, (iv) execute a die casting operation by coordinating the operational parameters of the die casting machine, the servo-controlled ladle, the servo-controlled sprayer, and the pick and place robot. The operational parameters of the die casting machine, the servo-controlled ladle, the servo-controlled sprayer, and the pick and place robot are interdependent. The programming pendant is coupled to the integrated controller and is arranged to permit a programmer to define the operational parameters of the die casting machine, the servo-controlled ladle, the servo-controlled sprayer, and the pick and place robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated die cast system comprising: a die casting machine including a die casting machine controller; a servo-controlled ladle including a molten material ladle and a servo-motor arranged to cause said ladle to transfer molten material to an injection chamber of said die casting machine; a servo-controlled sprayer including a sprayer assembly and a servo-motor arranged to orient said sprayer assembly proximate a die cavity of said die casting machine; a pick and place robot arranged to access a die cavity of said die casting machine; an integrated controller in communication with said die-casting machine controller, said servo-controlled ladle, said servo-controlled sprayer, and said pick and place robot, wherein said integrated controller is programmed to execute operational parameters of said servo-controlled ladle, execute operational parameters of said servo-controlled sprayer, execute operational parameters of said pick and place robot, execute a die casting operation by coordinating said operational parameters of said die casting machine, said servo-controlled ladle, said servo-controlled sprayer, and said pick and place robot, wherein said operational parameters of said die casting machine, said servo-controlled ladle, said servo-controlled sprayer, and said pick and place robot are interdependent; and a programming pendant coupled to said integrated controller and arranged to permit a programmer to define said operational parameters of said die casting machine, said servo-controlled ladle, said servo-controlled sprayer, and said pick and place robot. 2. An integrated die cast system comprising: a die casting machine; a servo-controlled mechanism associated with said die casting machine; a pick and place robot associated with said die casting machine; an integrated controller in communication with said die-casting machine, said servo controlled mechanism, and said pick and place robot, wherein said integrated controller is programmed to execute operational parameters of said servo-controlled mechanism, execute operational parameters of said pick and place robot, execute a die casting operation by coordinating said operational parameters of said die casting machine, said servo-controlled mechanism, and said pick and place robot, wherein said operational parameters of said die casting machine, said servo-controlled mechanism, and said pick and place robot are interdependent. 3. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said integrated controller is programmed to execute said die casting operation as a function of a status of said servo-controlled mechanism. 4. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 3 wherein said status of said servo-controlled mechanism comprises a progressive representation of a task to be completed by said servo-controlled mechanism. 5. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said die casting operation is executed upon completion of said task. 6. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said die casting operation is executed prior to completion of said task. 7. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 3 wherein said servo-controlled mechanism comprises a sprayer assembly and wherein said status of said servo-controlled mechanism comprises a "spray complete" status. 8. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 3 wherein said servo-controlled mechanism comprises a molten material ladle and wherein said status of said servo-controlled mechanism comprises a "pour complete" status. 9. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said integrated controller is programmed to execute said die casting operation as a function of a status of said pick and place robot. 10. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 9 wherein said status of said pick and place robot comprises an "unloading complete" status. 11. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said integrated controller is programmed to operate said pick and place robot as a function of a status of said die casting machine. 12. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 11 wherein said status of said die casting machine comprises a "ready to unload" status. 13. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said integrated controller is programmed to operate said servo-controlled mechanism as a function of a status of said die casting machine. 14. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 13 wherein said servo-controlled mechanism comprises a sprayer assembly and wherein said status of said die casting machine comprises a "ready to spray" status. 15. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 13 wherein said servo-controlled mechanism comprises a molten material ladle and wherein said status of said die casting machine comprises a "ready to pour" status. 16. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 2 further comprising a programming pendant coupled to said integrated controller and arranged to permit a programmer to define said operational parameters of said die casting machine, said servo-controlled mechanism, and said pick and place robot. 17. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said die casting machine includes a die casting machine controller and wherein said integrated controller is in communication with said die casting machine controller. 18. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said servo-controlled mechanism comprises a molten material ladle and a servo-motor arranged to cause said ladle to transfer molten material to an injection chamber of said die casting machine. 19. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said servo-controlled mechanism comprises a sprayer assembly and a servo-motor arranged to orient said sprayer assembly proximate a die cavity of said die casting machine. 20. An integrated die cast system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said servo-controlled mechanism comprises a robot transfer track arranged to move said pick and place robot along a predetermined axis. 