A gas turbine component can be refurbished and/or repaired with an arc welding process that is used in conjunction with a 6-axis robot, a camera and a robot controller/vision processor. Applied to a wire fed plasma welding process, the vision system identifies the part, constructs a weld path based on the part's individual contour, and calculates a trajectory (with or without sinusoidal oscillation) for the robot arm to follow.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gas turbine component refurbishment apparatus comprising: a robotic arm disposed adjacent the gas turbine component; a welding torch assembly coupled to an end of the robotic arm; a wire feeder cooperating with the welding torch assembly; a robotic arm controller that communicates with the robotic arm, the robotic arm controller controlling a position of the robotic arm relative to the gas turbine component; and a vision system coupled with the robotic arm controller that identifies the gas turbine component, defines a weld path according to the gas turbine component contour, and calculates a trajectory for the robotic arm to follow, the vision system communicating the trajectory to the robotic arm. 2. A gas turbine component refurbishment apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the welding torch assembly comprises an arc length voltage controller, a wire feed guide, and a plasma welding torch. 3. A gas turbine component refurbishment apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the weld path comprises a sine wave with a set wavelength and a set amplitude to reduce heat input and to provide a weld width sufficient for the gas turbine component. 4. A gas turbine component refurbishment apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a water-cooled chill fixture that secures the gas turbine component for welding and effects inter-pass temperature control. 5. A gas turbine component refurbishment apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the robotic arm is a six-axis robotic arm. 6. A method of refurbishing a gas turbine component using a robotic welding arm including a robotic arm, a welding torch assembly coupled to an end of the robotic arm, a wire feeder, a robotic arm controller, and a vision system, the method comprising: securing the gas turbine component; identifying the gas turbine component, defining a weld path according to the gas turbine component contour, and calculating a trajectory for the robotic arm to follow; and welding with the robotic arm and attached welding torch assembly along the weld path. 7. A method according to claim 6, further comprising, before the welding step, the step of adding a sine wave to the weld path with a set wavelength and a set amplitude. 8. A method according to claim 6, wherein the welding step comprises welding with an alloy weld filler wire. 9. A method according to claim 6, further comprising, after the welding step, machining the gas turbine component to final dimensions, vacuum heat treating the gas turbine component, and inspecting the gas turbine component. 10. A method according to claim 6, further comprising, prior to the securing step, the step of heat treating the gas turbine component for welding. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein the welding step is performed at room temperature. 