A counterpulsation device that operates without the use of compressed air or pressurized gas includes at least one inflatable cuff that is adapted to be placed about a selected portion of the patient's body. A first conduit connects the inflatable cuff to an air transfer device so that noncompressed air can be transferred from the air transfer device to the cuff through the first conduit to inflate the cuff. A second conduit connects the cuff to the air transfer device so that air can flow through the second conduit to deflate the cuff. The system is controlled using a computer-based controller that requires a series of initialization procedures before it will operate the system. A patient profile database includes historical treatment data for each patient and is automatically updated with each counter pulsation therapy session.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A counterpulsation therapy system, comprising: at least one inflatable cuff that is adapted to be placed about a selected portion of a patient's body; an air-moving device other than an air compressor or compressed air reservoir for supplying unpressurized air said air moving device including a reciprocating element configured to air therein and including at least two ports for transmitting air from said device, each said port in communication with a different side of said reciprocating member; a conduit coupling said cuff to each of said ports of said air moving device; at least two check valves, intermediate said conduit, each of said at least two ports associated with one of said check valves, said check valves responsive to air movement caused by said reciprocating member in a manner to direct the air movement in the same direction from each of said ports to said cuff; a valve coupled to said conduit and electively controllable to selectively communicate said cuff with each of said ports in a repetitively manner to control inflation and deflation of said cuff by permitting selected unpressurized air movement through said conduit; and an electronic controller that controls said air moving device and said valve in said repetitive and sequential manner, said controller also including a program module that prompts an operator of the system through a plurality of initialization procedures and verifies that each of said procedures is completed before said controller will operate said air moving device and said valve. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said controller prompts the operator through a preselected series of said procedures in a preselected order and wherein said controller requires verification that each of said procedures is completed before allowing an operator to perform a subsequent procedure and wherein said controller will not permit said air moving device and said valve to be operational until each of said procedures is completed in said preselected order. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a computer display screen and wherein said controller prompts the operator through said procedures by controlling visible images on the display screen that are indicative of the required procedures. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of cuffs, a plurality of conduits and a plurality of valves and wherein said controller controls each of said valves to selectively inflate and deflate said cuffs in a preselected order. 5. The system of claim 4, further comprising an electrocardiogram that provides a first signal indicative to the patient's heartbeat and a plethysmograph that provides a second signal indicative of the patient's peripheral blood pressure wave and wherein said controller communicates with said electrocardiogram and said plethysmograph such that said controller times the inflation and deflation of said cuffs responsive to at least one of said first and second signals. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said controller further comprises a memory portion including a historical patient database that includes a plurality of patient files each having a unique patient identifier and therapy session data, each patient file including an indicator of each therapy session and recorded data that is indicative of the effects of the therapy sessions. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said air moving device comprises: a cylinder coupled to said conduit; and a piston movable within said cylinder to effect a desired air movement. 8. The system of claim 7, further comprising: a first conduit coupled to a first end of said cylinder permitting air movement therethrough on a first stroke of said piston; and a second conduit coupled to a second end of said cylinder permitting air movement therethrough on a reverse stroke of said piston. 9. The system of claim 8 further including a plurality of valves coupled to said conduits such that a desired inflating or deflating airflow through said conduits is selectable by a user. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein said controller directs selection of said valves to determine said airflow direction. 11. The system of claim 10 further including a pressure transient suppressor coupled to said conduits between said cylinder and said at least one inflatable cuff. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein each of said first and second conduits includes: a pressure transmitter for sensing the air pressure in said conduit; and a pressure relief valve coupled to said pressure transmitter and said conduit such that when said pressure transmitter senses that the air pressure in said conduit exceeds a preselected value, said pressure relief valve is opened to vent said conduit. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising: a plurality of cuffs; a plurality of conduits coupling said plurality of cuffs to said cylinder; and a plurality of valves coupled to said plurality of conduits, wherein said controller controls each of said plurality of valves to selectively inflate and deflate each of said plurality of cuffs in a preselected order. 