Common human diseases like diabetes and hypertension have been demonstrated to possess an associated genetic component composed of numerous underlying genetic defects. Traditional positional cloning of genes which possess the mutations responsible for complex disease has been hindered by both the low statistical power each locus may afford, and by the technically-laborious nature of the positional cloning methodologies. Disclosed herein is a methodology for the rapid identification of the genes responsible for quantitative trait loci (QTL) comprised of comprehensive gene expression analysis in organs relevant to disease in combination with the positional mapping of known QTL, so as to quantitatively identify candidate genes. This aforementioned methodology was applied to a total of five tissues/organs derived from the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR), the stroke-prone variant of the SHR (SHR-SP) and control Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY). Collectively these animals vary genetically in their predisposition to stroke, insulin sensitivity, blood pressure and body weight. These traits segregate into more than a dozen identified. The present invention discloses the differential-expression of sixty genes by GeneCalling.RTM. within five different tissues/organs among these animals. Additionally, five of the sixty genes were demonstrated to be localized within chromosomal regions linked to these traits of interest and possess amino acid substitutions which may contribute to the phenotype.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated variant CD36 polypeptide, wherein said variant CD36 polypeptide consists of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:44 substituted at amino acid positions 213-257 by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:19. 2. An isolated variant CD36 polypeptide, wherein said variant CD36 polypeptide consists of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:44 substituted at amino acid positions 148-191 by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:16. 3. An isolated variant CD36 polypeptide, wherein said variant CD36 polypeptide consists of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:44 substituted at amino acid positions 213-257 by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:19 and substituted at amino acid positions 148-191 by the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:16. 