A method of performing a determination of an item of interest in a sample using a single structure is disclosed. A sample is provided accessible to the single structure. A first container for processing the sample is placed in a first process path on the single structure. The sample is transferred to the first container in the first process path. A reagent is added to the first container in the first process path. Contents of the first container is mixed in the first process path. The item of interest in the sample is separated from the contents of the first container in the first process path. The separated item of interest in the sample is transferred from the first container in the first process path to a second container in a second process path on the single structure. Contents of the second container is brought to a first temperature different from a temperature of the first process path in the second process path. The item of interest in the second container is detected in the second process path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing a determination of an item of interest in a sample using a single structure having a first process path and a second process path, and the second process path includes a plurality of second process sub-paths, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a sample accessible to the single structure; (b) placing a first container for processing the sample in a first process path on the single structure; (c) transferring the sample to the first container in the first process path; (d) adding a reagent to the first container in the first process path; (e) mixing contents of the first container in the first process path; (f) separating the item of interest in the sample from the contents of the first container in the first process path; (g) transferring the separated item of interest in the sample from the first container in the first process path to a second container in at least one of the plurality of second process sub-paths of the second process path on the single structure; (h) bringing contents of the second container to a first temperature different from a temperature of the first process path in the second path; and (i) detecting the item of interest in the second container in the second process path. 2. A method as defined in claim 1 further comprising the step of: (j) transferring a second sample to a second first container in the first process path; (k) adding a reagent to the second first container in the first process path; and (l) detecting the item of interest in the second first container in the first process path. 3. A method as defined in claim 1 further comprising the step of: (j) sealing at least one of the first container and the second container. 4. A method as defined in claim 3 further comprising the step of: (k) removing the seal from at least one of the first container and the second container. 5. A method as defined in claim 1 further comprising the step of: (j) reducing exposure of contents of at least one of the first container and the second container to a contaminant. 6. A method as defined in claim 1 further comprising the step of: (j) bringing contents of the second container to a second temperature different from the first temperature in the second process path. 7. A method as defined in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: (j) transferring a second sample to a second first container in the first process path; (k) adding a reagent to the second first container in the first process path; (l) transferring contents of the second first container to an optical flow cell on the single structure; (m) illuminating the optical flow cell; and (n) detecting the item of interest in the sample in the optical flow cell. 8. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein a determination of an item of interest comprises at least one process, the method further comprising the steps of: (j) discerning determinations to be performed by the single structure; (k) sorting samples provided to the single structure by at least one common process; and (l) transferring the samples to the first process path in an order determined by sorting step (k). 9. A method as defined in claim 8 further comprising the step of: (m) allocating an element of the single structure to a given determination based on sorting step (k). 10. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein the sample is maintained at more than one temperature in the first process path. 11. A method as defined in claim 10 wherein the first process path includes more than one temperature controller. 