A piezoelectric power generator, particularly for use in a flowing fluid stream, comprises an elongated, flexible central layer of a dielectric material having, spaced axially along opposite sides thereof, a plurality of separate piezoelectric elements each formed from a portion of a continuous layer of a piezoelectric layer extending along each opposite side of the central layer sandwiched between a pair of electrodes unique to each piezoelectric element.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A piezoelectric power generator comprising an axially elongated, flexible first layer of a dielectric material and a plurality of piezoelectric elements disposed in axially spaced apart relationship on opposite sides of said layer, each of said elements comprising a layer of flexible piezoelectric material having oppositely disposed electrodes on opposite sides thereof, said piezoelectric material layer of all the elements on one side of said first layer being integral portions of a continuous layer of said piezoelectric material, the electrodes of adjacent piezoelectric elements on said one side of said first layer being spaced apart and exposing portions of said piezoelectric material layer, and terminal electrodes extending axially along said one side of said first layer and overlying successive ones of said spaced apart electrodes and being electrically insulated from all said electrodes except respective ones of said electrodes. 2. A power generator according to claim 1 including a vortex generating bluff body secured to one end of said first layer and axially spaced from at least some of said piezoelectric elements. 3. A piezoelectric power generator comprising an axially elongated, flexible first layer of a dielectric material and a plurality of piezoelectric elements disposed in axially spaced apart relationship on one side of said layer, each of said elements comprising a layer of a flexible piezoelectric material having oppositely disposed electrodes on opposite sides thereof, said piezoelectric material layer of all the elements on said one side of said first layer being integral portions of a continuous layer of said piezoelectric material, the electrodes of adjacent piezoelectric elements on said one side of said first layer being spaced apart and exposing portions of said piezoelectric material layer, and terminal electrodes extending axially along said one side of said first layer and overlying successive ones of said spaced apart electrodes and being electrically insulated from all said electrodes except respective ones of said electrodes. 4. A generator in accordance with claim 3 wherein one of said electrodes of each of said piezoelectric elements faces towards said first layer, and said one side of said first layer comprises continuous, non-broken surfaces to which the entire facing surfaces of respective said piezoelectric elements arm adhered for flexure of said elements in correspondence with flexure of said first layer. 5. A generator in accordance with claim 3 wherein said first layer assumes during flexure thereof, a sinusoidal configuration including fixedly disposed peaks and valleys, and each of said piezoelectric elements is disposed to overlie only a respective one of said peak and valleys. 6. A piezoelectric power generator comprising a flexible first layer of a dielectric material and a plurality of piezoelectric elements disposed in spaced apart relationship on one side of said layer, each of said elements comprising a layer of a flexible piezoelectric material having oppositely disposed electrodes on opposite sides thereof, one of said electrodes of each of said piezoelectric elements facing towards said first layer, and said one side of said first layer comprises continuous, non-broken surfaces to which the entire facing surfaces of respective said piezoelectric elements are adhered for flexure of said elements in correspondence with flexure of said first layer. 7. A generator in accordance with claim 6 wherein said first layer assumes, during flexure thereof, a sinusoidal configuration including fixedly disposed peaks and valleys, and each of said piezoelectric elements is disposed to overlie only a respective one of said peaks and said valleys. 