For joining two faces (41, 42) of thermoplastics in a penetration beam welding method the covered face (42) is multiply scanned and thus incremently heated by a laser beam (10) directed through the covering face (41). This preheating is repeated until the melting temperature is attained. In the region of the covered face (42) a melt thus materializes simultaneously over the full seam length which wets the covering face (41) and thus also transfers this face into melt by heat conduction. On completion of material softening the faces (41, 42) are mutually moved until abutting. Thus the two faces (41, 42) weld in principle as if they had been plasticized simultaneously over the full seam length which significantly enhances the seal and strength of the seam, whilst the expenditure the apparatus is low.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of laser welding a joint, wherein the joint defines a joint field between a first joint face and a second joint face, wherein the first and second joint faces bound first and second cross-sections and have an initial temperature, wherein the first and second cross-sections comprise weldable materials of different physical characteristics such that the material of the first cross-section is substantially transparent to a laser beam, and the material of the second cross-section absorbs the laser beam, wherein the joint field includes field sections, said method comprising: directing a laser beam through the first cross-section and the first joint face to the second joint face on which the laser beam impinges, whereby the second joint face is heated within a beam field smaller than the joint field; moving the beam field in a sweeping action repeatedly over the joint field, wherein, during each sweeping action, only a portion of the total heating energy needed to attain a welding temperature is transmitted to each field section; and pressing the first and second joint faces together during at least a portion of the sweeping action; whereby the second cross-section and second joint face are incrementally heated and plasticized by the repeated sweeping action of the beam field, and the first cross-section and first joint face are heated indirectly by heat transmitted from the second cross-section to the first cross-section; and whereby the temperature is raised from the initial temperature to the welding temperature in the first and second cross-sections substantially simultaneously over the whole joint field. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein each of the field sections is swept by said beam field more than once in three seconds. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said joint field has a shape of an annular rim and said beam field is continuously guided to repeatedly move along the rim of the joint field, whereby the entire joint field is heated. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first and second cross-sections are pressed against each other just before the first and second joint faces attain the welding temperature. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the first and second cross-sections are pressed against each other when the heating of the joint field begins. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the first and second cross-sections are pressed against each other uninterruptedly until the first and second joint faces weld together. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein while being heated the first joint face is held at an acute angle relative to the second joint face. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein while being heated the first and second cross-sections are pressed against each other transverse to a direction of said sweeping action. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein each of the field sections is swept by said beam field between at least once and at least ten times per second. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein said laser beam is reflected on a mirror for performing said sweeping action. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein said mirror is automatically displaced by a robot including a leverage arm and motor means displacing said mirror with the leverage arm. 12. An apparatus for welding a workpiece, wherein the workpiece includes a joint defining a joint field between a first joint face and a second joint face, wherein the first and second joint faces bound first and second cross-sections, wherein the joint field includes field sections, wherein the first and second cross-sections comprise weldable materials of different physical characteristics, wherein the material of the first cross-section is substantially transparent to a laser beam, and the material of the second cross-section is absorbent of the laser beam and is heated thereby, said apparatus comprising: means for creating the laser beam; means for guiding the laser beam, said guiding means including a beam output directed to pass the laser beam through the first cross-section onto the second joint face, thereby projecting a beam field of the beam onto the second joint face; means for advancing the beam field along the second joint face; control means for controlling said advancing means, wherein said control means guides the beam field repeatedly and sequentially over each of the field sections while the laser beam penetrates the first cross-section; and a gripping fixture holding the workpiece and pressing the first and second cross-sections with their joint faces together during heating by the laser beam. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said control means guides the beam field over each of the field sections repeatedly in time intervals of no more than two to three seconds. 14. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein motor means are included for positionally driving the beam field. 15. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said beam output has a mirror and a focussing objective lens. 16. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said beam guiding means include a first mirror and a second mirror located downstream of said first mirror, at least one of said first and second mirrors being independently rotatable about a guide axis oriented parallel to said at least one mirror. 17. The apparatus according to claim 12 and further defining components including the first and second cross-sections, wherein holding means are included, said holding means including a gripping fixture for holding the components. 18. The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said gripping fixture includes tensioning jaws and cheeks, at least one of said cheeks being displaceable relative to the components and at least one of said cheeks exchangeably bearing at least one of said tensioning jaws. 19. The apparatus according to claim 17 and further defining gripping characteristics of said gripping fixture, wherein the gripping characteristics include a check path and a check force for gripping at least one of the components, said control means controlling at least one of the gripping characteristics. 20. The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said gripping fixture including at least one receiver for detecting at least one of the gripping characteristics, a signal lead connecting said at least one receiver with said control means, said control means being connected via a control lead to an actuator of said gripping fixture. 