Rapid characterization and screening of polymer samples to determine average molecular weight, molecular weight distribution and other properties is disclosed. Rapid flow characterization systems and methods, including liquid chromatography and flow-injection analysis systems and methods are preferably employed. High throughput, automated sampling systems and methods, high-temperature characterization systems and methods, and rapid, indirect calibration compositions and methods are also disclosed. The described methods, systems, and devices have primary applications in combinatorial polymer research and in industrial process control.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for separating non-biological polymers in a high-pressure liquid chromatography system, the apparatus comprising a chromatographic column consisting essentially of a right cylindrical separation cavity and having an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.1 to about 1, and a chromatographic separation medium in the separation cavity, said separation medium being effective for chromatographically separating non-biological polymer molecules having a molecular weight of more than about 50,000 of a polymer sample in said cavity and within said aspect ratio. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the separation medium comprises stationary-phase media for size-exclusion chromatography, precipitation-redissolution chromatography, adsorption chromatography or reverse-phase chromatography. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the separation medium comprises stationary-phase media for precipitation-redissolution chromatography. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the separation medium comprises stationary-phase media for adsorption chromatography. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the separation medium comprises stationary-phase media for reverse-phase chromatography. 6. An apparatus for separating non-biological polymers in a high-pressure liquid chromatography system, the apparatus comprising a chromatographic column consisting essentially of a right cylindrical separation cavity and having an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.1 to about 1, and a chromatographic separation medium in said separation cavity, said separation medium comprising porous, stationary-phase media having pore sizes of more than about 50 nm for size exclusion chromatography of non-biological polymer molecules of a polymer sample in said cavity and within said aspect ratio. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the separation medium comprises porous, stationary phase media effective for capturing and chromatographically separating polymer molecules having a molecular weight ranging from about 10,000 to about 1,000,000. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the separation medium comprises porous, stationary phase media effective for capturing and chromatographically separating polymer molecules having a molecular weight ranging from about 10,000 to about 100,000. 9. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the separation medium comprises porous, stationary phase media having pore sizes ranging from about 50 nm to about 1000 nm. 10. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the separation medium comprises porous, stationary phase media having pore sizes of several hundreds of nanometers. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 or 6 wherein the chromatographic column is a first chromatographic column, the apparatus further comprising a second chromatographic column defining a separation cavity and having a chromatographic separation medium in the separation cavity. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 or 6 wherein the chromatographic column has an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.3 to about 1. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 or 6 wherein the separation cavity of the chromatographic column has a hydraulic radius ranging from about 0.1 cm to about 1 cm. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 or 6 wherein the chromatographic column defines a right-cylindrical separation cavity having a diameter ranging from about 0.5 cm to about 3 cm, and a length ranging from about 1 cm to about 7 cm. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 or 6 wherein the chromatographic column defines a right-cylindrical separation cavity having a diameter ranging from about 0.75 cm to about 2 cm, and a length ranging from about 3 cm to about 5 cm. 16. An apparatus for separating polymers in a high-pressure liquid chromatography system, the apparatus comprising a chromatographic column defining a right-cylindrical separation cavity and having an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.3 to about 1, the separation cavity having a diameter ranging from about 0.5 cm to about 3 cm, and length ranging from about 1 cm to about 7 cm, and a chromatographic separation medium in said separation cavity, said separation medium comprising porous, stationary-phase separation media effective for separating non-biological polymer molecules of a non-biological polymer sample by gel permeation chromatography in said cavity and within said aspect ratio. 17. An apparatus for separating non-biological polymers in a high-pressure liquid chromatography system, the apparatus comprising a chromatographic column defining a separation cavity and having an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.3 to about 1, and a chromatographic separation medium in said separation cavity, said separation medium being effective for chromatographically separating non-biological polymer molecules of a polymer sample in said cavity and within said aspect ratio. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, 6 or 17 wherein the separation medium comprises porous, stationary phase media for gel permeation chromatography. 19. The apparatus of claim 6 or 17 wherein the separation medium comprises porous, stationary phase media having a molecular weight exclusion limit ranging from about 20,000 to about 10,000,000. 20. The apparatus of claim 6 or 17 wherein the separation medium comprises porous, stationary phase media effective for capturing molecules having a molecular weight up to about 20,000, while passing polymer molecules having a molecular weight larger than about 20,000. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, 6 or 17 wherein the separation medium comprises porous, stationary phase media effective for capturing and chromatographically separating polymer molecules having a molecular weight ranging from about 50,000 to about 2,000,000. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, 6 or 17 wherein the separation medium comprises porous, stationary phase media effective for capturing and chromatographically separating polymer molecules having a molecular weight ranging from about 100,000 to about 1,000,000. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, 6 or 17 wherein the chromatographic column has an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.5 to about 1. 24. A kit comprising the apparatus of claim 1, 6 or 17 and instructions directing use of the apparatus for separating polymer molecules in a high-pressure liquid chromatography system. 25. A method for characterizing a non-biological polymer sample, the method comprising injecting a non-biological polymer sample into a mobile phase of a liquid chromatography system, separating at least one polymer molecule of the injected sample from other polymer molecules thereof in the apparatus of claim 1, 6, 16 or 17, and detecting a property of at least one of the separated polymer molecules. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein the non-biological polymer sample is a polymerization product mixture that is untreated or is pretreated without chromatographic separation of polymer components of the sample. 