The present invention provides multi-well plates and column arrays in which samples (e.g., cell lysates containing nucleic acids of interest, such as RNA) can be analyzed and/or processed. In one embodiment, the microfiltration arrangement is a multilayer structure, including (i) a column plate having an array of minicolumns into which samples can be placed, (ii) a discrete filter element disposed in each minicolumn, (iii) a drip-director plate having a corresponding array of drip directors through which filtrate may egress, and (iv) a receiving-well plate having a corresponding array of receiving wells into which filtrate can flow. The invention provides multi-well microfiltration arrangements that are relatively simple to manufacture and that overcome many of the problems associated with the prior arrangements relating to (i) cross-contamination due to wicking across a common filter sheet or (ii) individual filter elements entrapping sample constituents within substantial dead volumes. Further, the invention provides multi-well microfiltration arrangements that adequately support discrete filter elements disposed in the wells without creating substantial preferential flow. Additionally, the invention provides multi-well microfiltration arrangements that avoid cross-contamination due to aerosol formation, pendent drops and/or splattering. Other disclosed features of the invention provide for the automated covering or heat-sealing of filtrate samples separately collected in an array of wells.
Claims It is claimed: 1. A removable cover for isolating a plurality of samples separately contained in an array of closed-bottom wells supported in a collection tray, comprising: a substantially rigid, rectangular shell portion having a top surface, a bottom surface and a circumferential side-edge region; a plurality of reversibly expandable tubular sleeves formed along the top surface of said shell portion; a resiliently compliant undersurface secured to the bottom surface of said shell portion, a plurality of resiliently deflectable, elongated side arms projecting beyond said bottom surface from opposing side-edge regions of said shell portion, each side arm normally positioned substantially perpendicular to a plane defined by said bottom surface; and an inwardly-directed catch formed at an end of each side arm distal from said shell portion. 2. The cover of claim 1, wherein said undersurface includes a plurality of downwardly convex nodules disposed in an array complementary to said well array. 