A method and apparatus provide polishing of a semiconductor wafer or other substrate. The apparatus includes multiple wafer carriers provided on the top surface of a table. A semiconductor wafer is seated face-up in the wafer carrier. Each wafer carrier is driven by an electric motor to rotate at a low speed. During operation, each wafer carrier is positioned at a work station where a specified task is performed. The table rotates when the task at each station is completed to move the wafers from station to station. Thus multiple tasks relating to polishing (e.g., buffing and drying) can be carried out in parallel. At one station, a polishing pad is positioned by a polishing pad carrier face-down to polish the surface of the semiconductor wafer. A motor drives the polishing pad to move in a high-speed circular motion.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for polishing of a wafer, comprising: a rotatable table; a wafer holder supported by said rotatable table, said wafer holder holding said wafer to expose a surface of said wafer for polishing; and a polishing pad holder for holding a polishing pad against said exposed surface; and an actuator coupled to said polishing pad holder for driving said polishing pad in an orbital circular motion, so as to provide polishing action against said exposed surface of said wafer, wherein said actuator includes a motor driving an off-center shaft which provides said orbital circular motion; a linear bearing coupling said polishing pad holder to said actuator; and an enclosure enclosing said off-center shaft, said linear bearing and said motor, said enclosure forming multiple connected chambers to allow a pressurized air flow to cool said motor. 2. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said wafer holder is one of multiple wafer holders provided on said rotatable table. 3. An apparatus as in claim 2, wherein each of said multiple wafer holders is positioned at a station for performing a task related to chemical-mechanical polishing (CMP) of semiconductor wafer. 4. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said wafer holder includes a raised wall for containing a slurry used in polishing. 5. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein linear bearing positions said polishing pad against said exposed surface of said wafer. 6. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said polishing pad holder and said actuator forming a first polishing assembly, further comprising: a conditioning assembly; a second polishing assembly substantially the same as said first polishing assembly; and a positioning mechanism coupled to said first and second polishing assemblies, said positioning mechanism positioning one of said first and second polishing assemblies for polishing said wafer and simultaneously position the other one of said first and second polishing assemblies at said conditioning assembly for conditioning of the polishing pad in said other one of said first and second polishing assemblies. 7. An apparatus as in claim 6, wherein said conditioning assembly comprises: a diamond plate on a rotatable platform; and an actuator for rotating said rotatable platform. 8. An apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising a robotic mechanism for loading said wafer into said wafer holder. 9. An apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising a second actuator coupled to said wafer holder for rotating said wafer in said wafer holder during polishing. 10. An apparatus as in claim 1, said wafer holding further comprising an wafer edge extension ring which surrounds said wafer, said wafer edge extension ring having a surface flush with said exposed surface of said wafer. 11. An apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising: a rotatable platform; a housing supporting said wafer holder on said rotatable platform, said housing having an inlet into a recessed portion of said housing underneath said wafer holder; a flexible seal over said recessed portion of said housing and in contact with a surface of said wafer holder, thereby forming a chamber under said surface of said wafer holder; and means for introducing a gas into said chamber through said inlet for applying a pressure against said wafer holder. 12. A method for polishing of a wafer, comprising: exposing a surface of said wafer for polishing; and pressing a polishing pad which is provided on a polishing pad holder against said exposed surface; and moving said polishing pad an orbital circular motion, so as to provide polishing action against said exposed surface of said wafer surface of said wafer, wherein said orbital circular motion is provided by a motor driving an off-center shaft which provides said orbital circular motion; providing a linear bearing coupling said polishing pad holder to said actuator; enclosing said off-center shaft, said linear bearing and said motor to form multiple connected chambers; and providing a pressurized air flow through said connected multiple chambers to cool said motor. 13. A method as in claim 12, wherein said wafer is provided on one of multiple wafer holders provided on a rotatable table. 14. A method as in claim 13, further comprising performing a task related to chemical-mechanical polishing (CMP) of semiconductor wafer at each location of said multiple wafer holders on said rotatable table. 15. A method as in claim 12, further comprising holding said wafer in a wafer holder that includes a raised wall for containing a slurry used in polishing. 16. A method as in claim 12, wherein said pressurized air flow cools said chambers sufficiently to cause moisture to condense on an external wall of said multiple chambers. 17. A method as in claim 12, further comprising positioning said polishing pad against said exposed surface of said wafer using said linear bearing. 18. A method as in claim 12, wherein said orbital circular motion is provided by first and second polishing assemblies alternately, further comprising positioning said first and second polishing assemblies, such that when one of said first and second polishing assemblies is polishing said wafer, the other one of said first and second polishing assemblies is positioned at a conditioning station for conditioning of a polishing pad in said other one of said first and second polishing assemblies. 19. A method as in claim 18, wherein said conditioning comprises pressing a rotating diamond plate against said polishing pad. 20. A method as in claim 12, further comprising loading said wafer onto a wafer holder using a robotic arm. 21. A method as in claim 12, further comprising rotating said wafer during polishing. 22. A method as in claim 20, further comprising providing an wafer edge extension ring in said wafer holder which surrounds said wafer, said wafer edge extension ring having a surface flush with a surface of said wafer. 23. A method as in claim 22, further comprising: providing a rotatable platform; supporting said wafer holder on said rotatable platform using a housing, said housing having an inlet into a recessed portion of said housing underneath said wafer holder; sealing said recessed portion by a flexible seal in contact with a surface of said wafer holder, thereby forming a chamber under said surface of said wafer holder; and introducing a gas into said chamber through said inlet for applying a pressure against said wafer holder. 