A three DOF SCARA arm, adapted for transporting semiconductor wafers, includes an end-effector assembly at a distal joint of the arm. In one configuration, the end-effector turns a workpiece over. The arm includes a support column having an open column assembly that projects above a base. Within the assembly, a Z-axis drive energizes extension and retraction of a hollow tube carried by the support column. A shaft, rotatable about the Z-axis and having a distal end furthest from the support column's base, receives an arm assembly. An arm-assembly rotary-drive energizes the shaft's rotation. An arm base-plate, secured to the shaft's distal end, supports the arm assembly therefrom. The arm base-plate carries a wrist joint that is displaced from the Z-axis, and receives the end-effector whose rotation about a wrist-joint axis is energized by an end-effector rotary-drive.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A Selective Compliance Articulated Robot for Assembly ("SCARA") arm comprising: a) a support column that includes: i. a base for securing the SCARA arm to a mounting structure; ii. an open column assembly which projects upward above the base of said support column and includes an arm-assembly drive that has: (1) a hollow tube which is extendable and retractable with respect to the base parallel to a Z-axis of said support column that is oriented along the column assembly; (2) a Z-axis drive that is coupled to the hollow tube for energizing extension and retraction thereof; (3) a shaft having a distal end which is: located furthest from the base of said support column; and adapted to receive an arm assembly, the shaft being supported within the hollow tube to be rotatable about the Z-axis of said support column; and (4) an arm-assembly rotary-drive that is coupled to the shaft for energizing rotation thereof; and iii. an inner column-cover which encircles the column assembly; and b) an arm assembly which includes an arm base-plate that is secured to the shaft for supporting said arm assembly therefrom thereby providing said arm assembly of the SCARA arm with: a first degree of freedom ("DOF") for extending and retracting said arm assembly with respect to the base of said support column; and a second DOF for rotating said arm assembly about the Z-axis of said support column; the arm base-plate carrying: i. a wrist joint that is: displaced from the Z-axis about which said arm assembly is rotatable; and adapted to receive and support an end-effector securable thereto to be rotatable about a wrist-joint axis that passes through the wrist joint; ii. an end-effector rotary-drive that is coupled to the wrist joint for energizing rotation of an end-effector about the wrist-joint axis; iii. an end-effector that is adapted for gripping a workpiece, the end-effector being secured to the wrist joint thereby providing said arm assembly of the SCARA arm with a third DOF for rotating the end-effector about the wrist-joint axis of said arm assembly; and iii. an outer skirt which depends from the arm base-plate to encircle the column-cover and to move with said arm assembly with respect to the base of said support column as said arm assembly extends, retracts and rotates; whereby the column-cover and the outer skirt establish a labyrinth seal which obstructs entry of contaminants in atmosphere surrounding the SCARA arm into the column assembly thereof. 2. The SCARA arm of claim 1 wherein the wrist-joint axis is oriented parallel to the Z-axis of said support column. 3. The SCARA arm of claim 1 wherein the end-effector is adapted for gripping a single semiconductor wafer. 4. The SCARA arm of claim 1, wherein the base of said support column includes a port that is adapted to receive a flow of clean, filtered air whereby the open column assembly enclosed by the column-cover is pressurizeable with respect to atmosphere surrounding the SCARA arm to thereby further obstruct entry into the open column assembly of contaminants in atmosphere surrounding the SCARA arm. 5. The SCARA arm of claim 1 wherein the hollow tube moves along a track during extension and retraction thereof, and the Z-axis drive includes a leadscrew which upon rotation causes the tube to extend and retract. 6. The SCARA arm of claim 1 wherein the end-effector further includes: (1) an end-effector mount: by which the end-effector is secured to the wrist joint; and that has a flipper joint which: is adapted for carrying a workpiece gripper; and permits rotating a workpiece gripper carried thereon about a flipper-joint axis that is not oriented parallel to the wrist-joint axis of said arm assembly; (2) a flipper drive that is coupled to the flipper joint for energizing rotation of a workpiece gripper about the flipper-joint axis for turning a workpiece over; and (3) a workpiece gripper that is secured to the flipper joint to be rotatable about the flipper-joint axis thereby providing the SCARA arm with a fourth DOF that permits turning over a workpiece gripped by the end-effector. 7. The SCARA arm of claim 6 wherein the flipper-joint axis is oriented perpendicular to the wrist-joint axis of said arm assembly. 8. The SCARA arm of claim 6 wherein the flipper drive is operable for turning over a workpiece while the Z-axis drive extends and retracts said arm assembly with respect to the base of said support column. 9. The SCARA arm of claim 6 wherein the flipper drive is operable for turning over a workpiece while the arm-assembly rotary-drive rotates said arm assembly about the Z-axis. 10. The SCARA arm of claims 6 wherein the flipper drive is operable for turning over a workpiece while the end-effector rotary-drive rotates the end-effector about the wrist-joint axis. 11. The SCARA arm of claim 1 further comprising a printed circuit board assembly that includes a non-volatile memory which stores data that is specific to the SCARA arm including parametric data used in controlling operation of the SCARA arm, at least some of the data specific to the SCARA arm that is stored in the non-volatile memory being downloadable from the non-volatile memory into a motion controller for use by the motion controller in controlling operation of the SCARA arm. 12. The SCARA arm of claim 1 further comprising a printed circuit board that includes a dedicated micro-controller which continuously monitors operation of the SCARA arm, and which produces an alarm condition if the SCARA arm operates improperly. 13. The SCARA arm of claim 4 further comprising: c) a linear track having: i. a mounting structure to which is secured the base of the support column, the mounting structure carrying said support column together with said arm assembly being moveable back and forth along the linear track; and ii. a linear drive that is coupled to the mounting structure for energizing movement of the mounting structure back and forth along the linear track. 