A programmable smart membrane and methods therefor. The smart membrane conducts an overall function on at least one of a sorting function, a filtering function and an absorbing function of at least one object having an attribute. The smart membrane includes a plurality of module units disposed adjacent each other. Each of the plurality of module units obtains information from an environment around each of the plurality of module units. The plurality of module units also each perform a function based on at least a first control method that determines the function based on the information for each of the plurality of module units. Wherein the plurality of module units individually perform function to collectively perform the overall function of the membrane based on the attribute of the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A membrane for conducting an overall function of at least one of a sorting function, a filtering function and an absorbing function of at least one object having an attribute, comprising: a plurality of module units disposed adjacent each other; each module unit of the plurality of module units obtains information of an environment around the module unit that is based on information received by at least a portion of the plurality of module units; at least the portion of the plurality of module units each perform at least one function based on at least a first control method; and the first control method determines the function based on the information for each of the plurality of module units, wherein the at least a portion of the plurality of module units perform the at least one function to collectively perform the overall function of the membrane based on the attribute of the object. 2. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the plurality of module units are disposed adjacent each other to form at least two layers of module units. 3. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the plurality of module units are disposed to form a membrane that provides the overall function in two dimensions. 4. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the plurality of module units are all identical. 5. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the plurality of module units are robotic modules. 6. The membrane, as recited in claim 5, wherein the robotic modules are side-sliding robotic modules. 7. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: each of the plurality of module units includes at least one sensor that obtains the information. 8. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: each of the plurality of module units includes at least one object sensor that detects the objects, at least one other module unit sensor that detects other module units of the plurality of module units that are adjacent the module unit and at least one wall sensor that detects walls of a world that the membrane is disposed in all as the information. 9. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: each of the plurality of module units includes a processor that executes the first control method. 10. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: each of at least a portion of the plurality of module units performs the function based on a second control method that determines the function based on the information. 11. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the first control method is a program. 12. The membrane, as recited in claim 11, wherein: the program is generated by genetic programming. 13. The membrane, as recited in claim 11, wherein: the program is predefined. 14. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the movement of one of the plurality of module units is allowed only when the one of the plurality of module units is adjacent another module unit. 15. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the movement is a single movement of one of the plurality of module units. 16. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the movement is a line movement of a line of the plurality of module units. 17. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: each of the plurality of module units includes a motor for performing the movement. 18. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the movement is a sliding movement of one of the plurality of module units, relative to other adjacent module units. 19. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the plurality of module units collectively perform the overall function of the membrane based on more than one attribute of the object. 20. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the plurality of module units collectively perform the overall function of the membrane for more than one object. 21. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: each of the plurality of module units obtains the information by at least one communication link with another module unit or the environment. 22. The membrane, as recited in claim 21, wherein: at least one communication link is a physical contact with at least one other module unit of the plurality of module units. 23. The membrane, as recited in claim 21, wherein: the at least one communication link is an electrical connection with at least one other module unit of the plurality of module units. 24. The membrane, as recited in claim 21, wherein: the at least one communication link is a wireless communication link with at least one other module unit of the plurality of module units. 25. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the first control method is reprogrammable. 26. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the information is information that is local to each of the plurality of module units. 27. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the function is a movement. 28. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the function is a change in an internal state of one module unit of the plurality of module units. 29. The membrane, as recited in claim 1, wherein: the information is the first attribute. 30. A self-reconfigurable robot, comprising: a first module; a second module disposed adjacent the first module; the first and second modules each comprising a function circuit and a sensor; and at least one controller, wherein the at least one controller executes a first control program to generate a function instruction for the first and second modules based on information obtained by the sensor, and wherein the function circuits perform a function based on the function instructions and the function of the first and second modules collectively perform an overall function of at least one of a filtering function, a sorting function and an absorbing function for the reconfigurable robot. 31. A self-reconfigurable robot, as recited in claim 30, wherein: the function circuit operates a movement motor. 32. A self-reconfigurable robot, as recited in claim 30, wherein: the information is local information for each of the first and second modules. 33. A self-reconfigurable robot, as recited in claim 30, wherein: the information is information from both the first and second modules. 34. An article of manufacture, including a computer-readable memory, comprising: a first plurality of software functions for performing a respective plurality of functions for a smart membrane; a first software program for randomly selecting a plurality of software functions for forming a first plurality of software programs; a fitness function for obtaining a respective plurality of fitness function values for the respective first plurality of software programs; and, a second software program for conducting a second plurality of software programs from the first plurality of software programs based on the plurality of respective fitness function values. 35. A method for providing software for a smart membrane, comprising: providing a plurality of software functions for performing a respective plurality of module functions; constructing a first plurality of software programs for solving an objective from the plurality of software functions; executing the first plurality of software programs to obtain a plurality of respective results; providing an objective fitness function for providing a fitness value; calculating a plurality of respective fitness function values for the first plurality of software programs; selecting a second plurality of software programs from the first plurality of software programs based on the respective fitness function values; and, constructing a third plurality of software programs from the second plurality of programs using a genetic operation. 36. A membrane for conducting an overall function of at least one of a sorting function, a filtering function and an absorbing function of at least one object having an attribute, comprising: a plurality of module units disposed adjacent each other; each module unit of the plurality of module units obtains information of an environment around the module unit and includes at least one object sensor that detects the objects, at least one other module unit sensor that detects other module units of the plurality of module units that are adjacent the module unit and at least one wall sensor that detects walls of a world that the membrane is disposed in all as the information; at least a portion of the plurality of module units each perform at least one function based on at least a first control method; and the first control method determines the function based on the information for each of the plurality of module units, wherein the at least a portion of the plurality of module units perform the at least one function to collectively perform the overall function of the membrane based on the attribute of the object. 