A sample handler moves and positions racks, containing sample tubes, in an analytical instrument. The sample handler has an in-feed and out-feed that advance sample tube racks using a walking beam mechanism. The racks are seated within the in-feed and are transported onto a cross-feed. The racks and tubes contained thereon are moved past detection devices that identify the samples and measure various properties thereof. Thereafter, the cross-feed moves the racks to a position behind the out-feed where the walking beam mechanism moves the tube racks out of the analytical instrument.
Claims We claim: 1. An analytical instrument having a sample handler, said sample handler handling a plurality of racks to transport a plurality of containers within said sample handler and a robotic arm to transport said containers within said instrument, said sample handler comprising an infeed into which said racks in which said containers are seated are input, an outfeed to which said racks are output, a cross-feed extending between said infeed and said outfeed, to which said racks are transferred from said infeed, a first device adjacent said cross-feed for detecting a property of at least one of said racks or containers while said racks and containers are on said cross-feed, a stat shuttle, and a second device adjacent said stat shuttle substantially identical to said first device to which said robotic arm may move those of said containers for which said first device failed to detect said property to attempt to detect said property using said second device. 2. The instrument of claim 1, wherein said first and second device are readers for reading machine-readable identification codes on said racks and containers. 3. The instrument of claim 1, wherein said first and second device are ultrasonic liquid level sensors for taking a plurality of level readings of said racks and containers in said racks. 4. A sample handler for transporting a plurality of racks within an instrument each rack having a plurality of containers disposed therein, said sample handler comprising: an infeed into which said racks are input, said infeed comprising a walking beam mechanism, an outfeed to which said racks are output, a cross-feed extending between said infeed and said outfeed, to which said racks are transferred from said infeed having means to transport at least one of said racks from a first position adjacent said infeed to a second position adjacent said outfeed, and an ultrasonic level sensor positioned above said cross-feed between said first and second positions to take a plurality of level readings of said at least one rack. 