A medical system that can be used to perform a surgical procedure. The system includes a network gateway that can retrieve remotely located patient data and display the data on a monitor at the surgical site.
Claims As such, what is claimed is: 1. A medical system that can be used by a surgeon through a single interface to perform a medical procedure utilizing a surgical instrument and retrieve patient data located at a remote computer, comprising: a monitor; a robotic arm that can move the surgical instrument; an input device that can receive a first robot arm input command that has a unique robot qualifier, and a data retrieval input command and a unique data retrieval qualifier from the surgeon; a controller that receives the first robot arm input command and the unique robot qualifier, and the data retrieval input command and the unique data retrieval qualifier from said input device, said controller to control said robotic arm in response to the robot arm input command; and a network gateway coupled to the controller, said network gateway to retrieve the patient data from the remote computer in response to the data retrieval input command from the surgeon so that the patient data can be displayed on said monitor. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient data is written in an HTML format. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said controller operates in accordance with voice recognition software. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said input command comprises an audible input command and said data retrieval command is an audible data retrieval command. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said patient data comprises one or more of the following: an x-ray, MRI, angiography, CAT scan, and patient history. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said network gateway executes a web browser program and transmits a uniform resource locator (URL) over a hospital network to retrieve the patient data from the remote computer. 7. A method for retrieving patient data from a remote computer and performing a medical procedure using a single interface, comprising: generating a data retrieval input command and a unique data retrieval qualifier to retrieve patient data from a remote computer; retrieving the patient data from the remote computer in response to the data retrieval input command and unique data retrieval qualifier; displaying the patient data; generating a robotic arm input command and a unique robot arm qualifier; and moving a robotic arm and a surgical instrument in response to the robotic arm input command and the unique robot arm qualifier. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the patient data is located at a URL location. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the patient data is provided in an HTML format. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein retrieving the patient data comprises transmitting a URL over a network that is coupled to the remote computer, and receiving the patient data from the URL over the network. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein generating the data retrieval input command comprises detecting a first audible input command, and wherein generating the robotic arm input command comprises detecting a second audible input command. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein said patient data comprises one or more of the following: an x-ray, MRI, angiography, CAT scan, and patient history. 