The conveyor system for clinical test apparatus includes a main transport conveyor and a plurality of auxiliary conveyors located alongside the main transport conveyor. The auxiliary conveyors define straight line paths of travel parallel to the straight line paths of travel of the main conveyor. Each of the auxiliary conveyors is operated by drive means separate from the main transport conveyor. Two crossover points are provided between the main transport conveyor and the auxiliary conveyor. One crossover point is an entrance from the main transport conveyor to the auxiliary conveyor and the other crossover point is an exit from the auxiliary conveyor to the main transport conveyor. Each crossover point is controlled by a gate. One of the gates is a divert gate which can be actuated to block the main transport path thereby diverting puck traffic onto the auxiliary conveyor. The other gate is an interface gate which is used primarily to read information on a sample tube before it is introduced into a test apparatus and also functions as a load and unload station for the clinical test apparatus. The conveyor system also has a main unload and load system wherein tubes that have been completely tested are removed from pucks and reloaded with new tubes that are to be tested.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gating system for a conveyor comprising a) a gate housing for securement to a conveyor alongside a travel path of the conveyor, b) a rotatable star wheel device on said gate housing, said star wheel device having at least one object accommodation slot, c) a diverter alongside said travel path opposite said gate housing to divert an object on said travel path into said object accommodation slot, d) said star wheel device being rotatable in a first direction to move said object accommodation slot away from said travel path to a processing area and away from said processing area to the travel path of said conveyor for transfer back to said travel path, wherein an object rotating drum is arranged coaxial with said star wheel device for rotation independent of the rotation of said star wheel device. 2. The gating system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said star wheel device has four radially spaced object accommodation slots, each of said object accommodation slots being movable away from said travel path of said conveyor toward said processing area and away from said processing area back to the travel path upon rotation of said star wheel device in said first direction. 3. The gating system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said object rotating drum is rotatable in a direction opposite said first direction. 4. The gating system as claimed in claim 1 including biasing means on said gate housing for exerting a biasing force in a direction toward said object rotating drum. 5. The gating system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said biasing means is supported on said gate housing and is non-rotatable with respect to the axis of said star wheel device. 6. The gating system as claimed in claim 1 including sensor devices cooperable with said star wheel device to sense the presence or absence of an object in the object accommodation slot of said star wheel device when said slot is at a predetermined rotational position relative to said gate housing. 7. A gating system for a conveyor comprising a) a gate housing for securement to a conveyor alongside a travel path of the conveyor, b) a rotatable star wheel device on said gate housing, said star wheel device having at least one object accommodation slot, c) a diverter alongside said travel path opposite said gate housing to divert an object on said travel path into said object accommodation slot, d) said star wheel device being rotatable in a first direction to move said object accommodation slot away from said travel path to a processing area and away from said processing area to the travel path of said conveyor for transfer back to said travel path, and e) said star wheel device includes a rotatable plate having said object accommodation slot, said object accommodation slot having opposite sides, a pair of segment members are each secured to said rotatable plate for movement with said rotatable plate, and each said segment member is at a respective said opposite side of said object accommodation slot spaced from the respective said opposite side of the object accommodation slot to define an object accommodation space between the respective said segments, said object accommodation space being wider than the object accommodation slot in the rotatable plate. 8. A gating system for a conveyor as claimed in claim 7 wherein said segment members are of substantially triangular shape. 9. A gating system for a conveyor comprising a) a gate housing for securement to a conveyor alongside a travel path of the conveyor, b) a rotatable star wheel device on said gate housing, said star wheel device having at least one object accommodation slot, c) a diverter alongside said travel path opposite said gate housing to divert an object on said travel path into said object accommodation slot, d) said star wheel device being rotatable in a first direction to move said object accommodation slot away from said travel path to a processing area and away from said processing area to the travel path of said conveyor for transfer back to said travel path, e) said star wheel device has four radially spaced object accommodation slots, each of said object accommodation slots being movable away from said travel path of said conveyor toward said processing area and away from said processing area back to the travel path upon rotation of said star wheel device in said first direction, and f) said star wheel device includes a rotatable plate having said four object accommodation slots, and four segment members are secured to said rotatable plate for movement with said rotatable plate such that each one of said segment members is provided between any two consecutive ones of said object accommodation slots to define an object accommodation space between any two of said segment members, said object accommodation space being wider than said object accommodation slots. 10. A gating system for a conveyor as claimed in claim 8 wherein said segment members are of substantially triangular shape. 