A sample handler moves and positions sample tube racks in an analytical instrument. The sample handler has an in-feed and out-feed that advance sample tube racks using a walking beam mechanism. Sample tube racks are seated within the in-feed and are transported onto a cross-feed. The cross-feed comprises a movable track having a platform mounted thereto. The platform includes spring loaded gripper fingers that engages and secures the sample tube rack to the platform. The cross-feed moves the sample tube racks to a point where they are accessed by the analytical instrument. Thereafter, the cross-feed moves the sample tube racks to a position behind the out-feed where the walking beam mechanism moves the tube racks out of the analytical instrument.
Claims We claim: 1. A sample handler for a plurality of racks having a plurality of containers, said sample handler comprising an infeed into which said racks, in which said containers are seated, are input by an operator, an out-feed to which said racks are output, a cross-feed on which said racks are transferred between said infeed and said outfeed one at a time, said infeed and outfeed each comprising a walking beam mechanism for moving the rack; said cross-feed comprising a track on which said rack sits, means to transport a first of said racks from a first position on said track adjacent said infeed to a second position on said track adjacent said outfeed, and a platform coupled to said transport means having means for pushing said first rack across said track from said first position to said second position. 2. The sample handler of claim 1 wherein said pushing means comprise a pusher finger shaped so as not to interfere with the transfer of said infeed to said cross-feed but to engage an aperture in said first rack to said push said first rack. 3. The sample handler of claim 2 wherein said pusher finger is spring-loaded so as to disengage from said aperture when said platform means returns said first track from said second position to said first position. 4. The sample handler of claim 2 wherein said pushing means further comprises a second pusher finger to work in conjunction with said first pusher to maintain said first rack orthogonal to said track. 