The present invention provides a method and apparatus for dispensing small volumes of selected substances, such as biological reagents or samples, onto substrates. According to one general embodiment, a plurality of spaced, tandemly-arranged substrates are advanced, e.g., by way of a conveyor, along a transport pathway extending over a reagent-supply location, such as a reservoir supported at a fixed position in a base. From a position over the reagent-supply location and the pathway, a reagent-transfer instrument, or tip, is extended along an axis through an intervening region, e.g., an opening defined by a surface of the conveyor, separating an adjacent pair of advancing substrates to contact reagent held at the reagent-supply location. The reagent-transfer instrument is then withdrawn, along with a portion of such reagent, through the intervening region to a position above the transport pathway. Once the conveyor has advanced a selected substrate, upstream of the intervening region, to a position aligned with the axis of the reagent-transfer instrument, a selected amount of reagent is transferred from the instrument onto a selected site of the substrate. Advantageously, the apparatus and method are readily adaptable for the production of micro-arrays having a great number of closely spaced spots.
Claims It is claimed: 1. A method for spotting a reagent on one or more substrates, comprising the steps of: (i) advancing a plurality of spaced, tandemly-arranged substrates along a transport pathway extending over a reagent-supply location; (ii) from a position over said reagent-supply location and said pathway, (a) extending a reagent-transfer instrument through an intervening region separating an adjacent pair of advancing substrates to contact reagent held at said reagent-supply location, (b) withdrawing the reagent-transfer instrument, along with a portion of such reagent, through said intervening region to a position above said transport pathway, (c) positioning the reagent transfer instrument to a position over a selected substrate upstream of said intervening region; and (d) transferring a selected amount of reagent from said reagent-transfer instrument onto a selected region of a selected substrate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said substrates are integrally formed as spaced-apart expansive portions provided along an elongate web material, and each of said intervening regions is an opening formed through said web material between adjacent substrate portions. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said substrates are advanced using a conveyor having a movable belt with a plurality of tandemly-arranged substrate-support regions; with each substrate being placed at a defined location on a respective one of said substrate-support regions. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said transport pathway extends over a plurality of reagent-supply locations, disposed at spaced positions along said pathway; and wherein step (ii) is performed at two or more of said spaced positions to produce a plurality of reagent spots on the selected substrate. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein at least one of said reagent spots on the selected substrate is laterally offset from the other reagent spots. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein step (ii) is performed at least twice, in a substantially parallel fashion, using separate reagent-transfer instruments at one or more of said spaced positions. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: removing any reagent(s) being held at said reagent-supply location; extending at least a portion of said reagent-transfer instrument into said reagent-supply location; flowing a cleaning fluid through said reagent-supply location so that it contacts and cleans said reagent-transfer instrument. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of: with at least a portion of said reagent-transfer instrument extended into said reagent-supply location, flowing a gas along said reagent-supply location so that it contacts and dries the cleaned reagent-transfer instrument. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: placing a vessel containing a selected liquid reagent at said reagent-supply location; and flowing a cooling fluid through said reagent-supply location so that it contacts said vessel, thereby reducing evaporative loss of the selected liquid reagent. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: prior to step (i), retrieving a vessel containing a selected reagent from a storage location, and placing the vessel at said reagent-supply location; and subsequent to step (ii), retrieving the vessel from said reagent-supply location, and returning the vessel to its storage location. 