Machine tools combine material addition via ultrasonic object consolidation and subtractive techniques for imparting high-dimensional accuracy to a finished object. A material supply and feeder, ultrasonic horn, and feedstock cutting device are integrated with a material removal subsystem preferably including a cutting tool and an excess material removal system. Any metal, plastic or composite material suitable for ultrasonic joining may be employed as a feedstock, and these material may assume the form of tapes, sheets, wires, filaments, dots or droplets, with the feeding and material cutting components being designed for the specific feedstock employed. The cutting tool for excess material removal, may be a knife, drill/mill, grinding tool, or other tool capable of accurately cutting the external contour of a cross section of the part being built, and for removing excess feedstock remaining following the application process. The material removal could consist of a vacuum or blower system, chip auger, or other suitable apparatus. A machine disclosed as part of the preferred embodiment is able to deposit material in one step, and optionally and selectively remove it in another. Through the expeditious combination of deposition and removal, the fabrication of objects of arbitrary shape may be realized.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for fabricating an object through ultrasonic consolidation, comprising: a memory for storing a description of the object to be fabricated; a material feeder for providing material increments; a source of ultrasonic energy operative to consolidate the material by producing an atomically clean faying surface between the increments without melting the material in bulk; a material removal unit for removing excess material not required to form the object; and a controller operative to coordinate the successive consolidation of the material increments supplied through the material feeder and remove the excess material using the material-removing unit to produce the object in accordance with the stored description. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the material removal unit includes a spindle, knife, laser, water jet, cutter, drill, milling machine or ultrasonic machining tool. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the feeder is operative to provide material in the form of sheets, tapes, filaments, dots or droplets. 4. The system of claim 1, further including an actuation system for imparting relative motion between the source of ultrasonic energy and the object being fabricated. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the object being fabricated is supported on a stage, and the actuation system is operative to move the stage in multiple dimensions. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein the actuation system includes a deposition head moveable in multiple dimensions relative to the object being fabricated. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the deposition head includes the material removal unit, and both in unison relative to the object being fabricated. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the deposition head forms part of a carriage moveable along the x, y and z axes. 9. The system of claim 8, further including a counterforce actuator operative to balance static loading due to the weight of the carriage. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the material feeder is mounted on a multiaxis robot. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the material removal unit is mounted on a multi-axis robot. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the material feeder and removal unit are mounted on separate multi-axis robots. 13. The system of claim 12, further including a coordinated motion capability to eliminate collisions between the robots. 14. The system of claim 12, further including a coordinated motion capability facilitating simultaneous material feed and excess removal. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the material feeder is mounted relative to a material removal unit in the form of a multi-axis mill or other machining center. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the object is fixtured enabling the object to be fabricated from the center outward. 17. The system of claim 16, further including at least two material feed and removal units on either side of the center axis of the object being fabricated. 18. The system of claim 16, further including a drive for rotating the. object through 180 degrees in order to present opposite sides of the object to a single material feed and removal unit. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the source of ultrasonic energy is operative to apply the energy along multiple dimensions. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the material removal unit is operative to perform two trimming operations, including a high-speed trimming operation and a contouring trim to minimize stairstepping. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the material feeder is operative to provide material increments in two or more directions. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the material feeder includes multiple sources of material increments, one applicable to each direction. 23. The system of claim 1, further including multiple material feeders, enabling the object to be fabricated using dissimilar materials. 24. The system of claim 1, further including multiple material feeders, enabling the object to be fabricated with material increments of varying thickness. 25. The system of claim 1, further including a tool holder facilitating rapid switching of tool profiles. 26. The system of claim 1, further including: a fiber material feeder; and a handling unit for feeding the raw material and fiber material on a selective basis to produce a fiber-reinforced object. 