A method and apparatus for decomposing a layer of silicon oxide on a silicon wafer is described which employs the application of a heated mist of aqueous HF to the cooled wafer surface. The technique is applied to the analysis of silicon wafers for trace impurities using a scanning fluid drop to collect the residue containing the impurities after the silicon oxide has been decomposed. The novel method offers an order of magnitude increase in the rate of silicon oxide decomposition over the prior art which uses a vapor phase decomposition technique. In addition the novel method provides better control and safer disposition of the corrosive vapors over the prior art. The apparatus comprises a movable dome fitted with a carrier gas supply and a means for injecting a heated aqueous HF mist generated by a specially designed mist generator into the carrier gas flow. The flow mist droplets are drawn from the flow onto the cooled wafer surface providing a thin layer of liquid aqueous HF which reacts with the oxide layer at a faster rate than previously used HF vapor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for forming a liquid film over a substrate by application of a mist comprising: (a) providing a substrate; (b) providing an apparatus having; (i) a rotatable table for supporting said substrate; (ii) means for cooling said substrate; (iii) a cylindrical dome assembly positioned over said table; (iv) means for raising and lowering said dome assembly; (v) means for introducing a heated mist flow into said dome assembly; (vi) means for heating said mist flow; (vii) means for recovery and disposition of exhaust gases; (c) mounting said substrate on said table; (d) lowering said dome assembly over said substrate; (e) rotating said table; (f) cooling said substrate; (g) introducing a mist flow into said dome assembly; (h) maintaining said mist flow for a time period thereby forming said liquid film; and (i) halting said mist flow. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said liquid film is selected from the group consisting of an acid, a solvent, a lubricant, a monomer, and water. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said table is rotated during said cooling and said introducing and said maintaining of said mist flow. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said substrate is cooled to a temperature between about 5.degree. C. and 15.degree. C. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said the mist flow is heated to between about 30.degree. C. and 40.degree. C. 