Electrically conductive elements such as terminals and leads are held on a support structure by a degradable connecting layer such as a adhesive degradable by heat or radiant energy. After connecting these elements to a microelectronic element such as a chip or wafer, the conductive elements are released from the support structure by degrading the connecting layer. The support structure desirably has a predictable, isotropic coefficient of thermal expansion and such coefficient of thermal expansion may be close to that of silicon to minimize the effect of the temperature changes. The conductive elements may be mounted on a plurality of individual tiles rather than on an unitary sheet covering an entire wafer to minimize dimensional changes when the dielectric is released from the support structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making a microelectronic assembly comprising: (a) providing leads physically connected to a bottom surface of a support, each said lead having a tip end and a terminal end; (b) engaging said support with a microelectronic element having contacts thereon so that the tip ends of the leads are aligned with the contacts of the microelectronic element, and bonding the tip ends of the leads to the contacts; (c) during or after said bonding, selectively degrading the connection between the support and the leads at and adjacent the tip ends thereof so as to free the tip ends from the support and leave the terminal ends secured to the support. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising moving said support through a predetermined displacement away from said microelectronic element after said selectively degrading so as to deform said leads towards a vertically-extensive disposition. 3. The method as claimed in claim 2 further comprising degrading the connection between the terminal ends of said leads and the support after said moving said support away from the microelectronic element. 4. The method as claimed in claim 2 further comprising introducing flowable material around said leads during or after said movement of the support and curing said flowable material to form a dielectric layer surrounding said leads. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said microelectronic element includes at least one semiconductor chip. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said selectively degrading includes selectively applying radiation through said support at and adjacent to the tip ends of the leads. 7. The method as claimed in 1 wherein providing said leads includes providing said leads with the terminal ends thereof secured to at least one dielectric element mounted on said support, further comprising releasing the at least one dielectric element from the support. 8. The method as claimed in claim 7 wherein said at least one dielectric element includes a plurality of dielectric elements, and wherein said plural dielectric elements are movable with respect to one another upon release of said dielectric elements from said support. 9. A method of making a packaged microelectronic component comprising: (a) providing a support including a structural layer and electrically conductive elements secured to said structural layer; then (b) connecting said conductive elements to a microelectronic component; and; (c) at least partially releasing said conductive features from said structural layer. 10. The method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said structural layer is transparent to radiation in a degradation wavelength band, said features being secured to said structural layer by a connecting layer on a bottom surface of said structural layer, said step of at least partially releasing said features from said structural layer including directing radiation in said degradation wavelength band through said structural layer to degrade said connecting layer. 11. The method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said step of at least partially releasing said features from said structural layer includes changing the temperature of said features. 12. The method as claimed in claim 11 wherein said features are secured to said structural layer by a connecting layer on a bottom surface of said structural layer, said step of at least partially releasing said features from said structural layer including applying heat to degrade said connecting layer. 13. The method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said support carries connection components including dielectric layers, said conductive features include leads having fixed ends secured to said dielectric layers and tip ends projecting from said dielectric layers, said step of at least partially releasing said features from said structural layer being performed so as to at least partially release said tip ends of said leads from said structural layer. 14. The method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said step of connecting said conductive features to a microelectronic component includes providing leads extending between said conductive features and the microelectronic component. 15. The method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said conductive features are carried on a sacrificial layer having etching properties different from the material constituting said conductive features, said sacrificial layer being connected to said structural layer by said connecting layer, whereby degradation of said connecting layer frees said sacrificial layer from said structural layer, the method further comprising etching said sacrificial layer without destroying said conductive elements. 16. The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein said sacrificial layer is electrically conductive, the method further comprising forming said electrically conductive elements in place on said sacrificial layer using plating or etching currents conveyed through said sacrificial layer. 17. The method as claimed in claim 16 further comprising the step of forming one or more dielectric layers in place on said sacrificial layer. 18. The method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said microelectronic component is a semiconductor chip having a front surface with contacts thereon and a back surface, said step of connecting the conductive elements to a microelectronic element including positioning the chip on the connecting layer of the support with the back surface of the chip facing toward the support and the front surface facing away from the support, and connecting leads between the contacts on the chip and the conductive elements while the chip is in place on the support. 19. A method as claimed in claim 18 further comprising applying an encapsulant over the chip and leads and curing the encapsulant in contact with the connecting layer to form a body having a bottom surface facing toward the support, whereby the body is freed from the support when the connecting layer is degraded and the conductive features form terminals exposed to the bottom surface of the body. 20. A mandrel for forming microelectronic elements comprising: (a) a structural layer transparent to radiation in a degradation wavelength band; (b) an electrically conductive sacrificial layer thinner than said structural layer; and (c) a connecting layer securing said sacrificial layer to said structural layer, said connecting layer being degradable by radiation in said degradation wavelength band. 21. The mandrel as claimed in claim 20 wherein said sacrificial layer is formed from a metal selected from the group consisting of aluminum and aluminum-based alloys, copper and copper-based alloys. 22. A structure for forming microelectronic assemblies including: (a) a rigid support having a substantially uniform coefficient of thermal expansion; (b) a plurality of electrically conductive elements connected to said support by a connecting material, said support being transparent to radiation in a band of wavelengths effective to degrade said connecting material. 23. The structure as claimed in claim 22 further comprising a sacrificial layer, said sacrificial layer being formed from a material different from said conductive elements and being disposed between said conductive elements and said support. 24. The structure as claimed in claim 23 wherein said sacrificial layer is formed from a metal selected from the group consisting of aluminum and aluminum-based alloys, and wherein said conductive features are formed from a metal selected from the group consisting of copper, gold and alloys thereof. 25. The structure as claimed in claim 23 wherein said sacrificial layer is formed from a metal selected from the group consisting of copper and copper-based alloys, and wherein said terminals are formed from a metal selected from the group consisting of gold and gold-based alloys thereof. 26. An element as claimed in claim 22 wherein said electrically conductive elements include leads. 27. An element as claimed in claim 22 wherein said electrically conductive elements include terminals. 28. An element as claimed in claim 27 further comprising a sheetlike dielectric layer, said terminals being exposed at a top face of said dielectric layer facing toward said support. 29. A method of making a plurality of packaged microelectronic components comprising the steps of: (a) providing: (i) a temporary support with a plurality of dielectric elements thereon, each said dielectric element having electrically conductive features thereon; (ii) a plurality of microelectronic devices, and (iii) a plurality of leads, said leads having first ends connected to conductive features on said dielectric elements and having second ends attached to said microelectronic devices; and (b) at least partially removing said temporary support so as to allow said dielectric elements to move relative to one another. 30. The method as claimed in claim 29 further comprising moving said microelectronic devices and said support away from one another so as to bend the second ends of said leads away from said support while leaving the first ends of said leads in position on said support before said at least partially removing said support. 31. The method as claimed in claim 29 wherein providing said temporary support, microelectronic devices and leads is performed by providing said temporary support and dielectric elements with said leads disposed on said dielectric elements and bonding said second ends of said leads to contacts on said microelectronic elements. 32. The method as claimed in claim 31 wherein providing said temporary support with said dielectric elements leads thereon includes fabricating said dielectric elements and said leads on said temporary support. 33. The method as claimed in claim 29 wherein providing said temporary support, microelectronic devices and leads is performed by providing said microelectronic devices with leads disposed on top surfaces of said microelectronic devices facing towards said temporary support, and bonding said first ends of said leads to said conductive features on said dielectric elements. 34. The method as claimed in claim 29 wherein said dielectric elements are releasably attached to said temporary support, removing said temporary support including the releasing said dielectric elements from said temporary support. 35. The method as claimed in claim 34 wherein said dielectric elements are releasably attached to said temporary support by a connecting material, and wherein releasing said dielectric elements from said temporary support includes degrading said connecting material. 36. The method as claimed in claim 35 wherein said temporary support is formed from a material transparent to radiation of a predetermined degradation wavelength, and wherein said degrading said connecting material includes applying radiation in said degradation wavelength band through said temporary support. 37. The method as claimed in claim 29 wherein said removing said temporary support includes etching said temporary support. 38. The method as claimed in claim 37 wherein said temporary support includes a sacrificial metal and wherein said etching includes dissolving said sacrificial metal without substantially etching said conductive features. 39. The method as claimed in claim 38 wherein said temporary support includes a structural layer having a coefficient of thermal expansion between of about 1.5.times.10.sup.-6 /.degree.C. to about 6.times.10.sup.-6 /.degree.C. and a layer of said sacrificial metal disposed between said structural layer and said dielectric elements. 40. The method as claimed in claim 38 further comprising forming said conductive features in place on said temporary support, said forming including applying plating or reverse plating currents to metallic elements through said sacrificial metal. 41. The method as claimed in claim 29 wherein said microelectronic devices are provided as a unitary wafer. 42. The method as claimed in claim 41 wherein said temporary support and said wafer have coefficients of thermal expansion which differ from one another by about 6.times.10.sup.-6 /.degree.C. or less. 43. The method as claimed in claim 41 wherein said wafer is formed from silicon and said temporary support has a coefficient of thermal expansion between of about 1.5.times.10.sup.-6 /.degree.C. and about 6.times.10.sup.-6 /.degree.C. 44. The method as claimed in claim 41 further comprising severing said wafer after said removing said support. 45. The method as claimed in claim 29 wherein at least some of said dielectric elements have at least some conductive features arranged in a fan-out pattern so that such features extend between a central region of each such element and a peripheral region, and said step of providing said microelectronic devices includes mounting at least some of the microelectronic devices to said central regions. 46. A component for making packaged microelectronic elements comprising: (a) a support having a substantially uniform, isotropic coefficient of thermal expansion; (b) a plurality of separate dielectric elements releasably attached to said support structure, said dielectric elements having conductive features thereon. 47. The component as claimed in claim 46 wherein said support is formed from a material transparent to radiation of a predetermined degradation wavelength, and wherein said dielectric elements are secured to said support by a connecting material degradable by radiation in said degradation wavelength band. 48. The component as claimed in claim 41 wherein said transparent material has a coefficient of thermal expansion of about 6.times.10.sup.-6 /.degree.C. or less. 49. The component as claimed in claim 46 wherein said support includes a sacrificial metal etchable by an etchant which does not substantially attack said conductive features. 50. A component as claimed in claim 49 wherein said support includes a structural layer of a material having a coefficient of thermal expansion of about 6.times.10.sup.-6 /.degree.C. or less and a layer of a sacrificial metal disposed between said first layer and said dielectric elements, said sacrificial metal layer being thinner than said structural layer. 51. A component as claimed in claim 46 wherein said dielectric elements have top surfaces facing toward said support and bottom surfaces facing away from said support, said dielectric elements having leads, said leads having first ends fixed to the dielectric elements and connected to said conductive features, said leads having second ends releasably attached to said dielectric elements. 52. A method of connecting a plurality of leads to one or more microelectronic elements comprising: (a) providing said leads physically connected to a support by a connecting material so that said leads are maintained in position on the support at least partially by a connecting material; (b) juxtaposing the support with the microelectronic element so that the leads are aligned with contacts on the microelectronic element; (c) bonding the leads to the contacts of the microelectronic element; and then (d) releasing the connection between the leads and the support after said bonding by degrading the connecting material. 53. The method as claimed in claim 52 wherein degrading said connecting material includes directing radiant energy through the support onto said connecting material. 54. A method as claimed in claim 52 wherein said leads are flexible after they are released from the support. 55. A method of making a microelectronic assembly comprising the steps of: (a) providing a semiconductor element including one or more semiconductor chips, said semiconductor element having contacts on a front surface; (b) forming leads in place on said semiconductor element overlying said surface, said leads having contact ends connected to said contacts and having tip ends releasably connected to said semiconductor element; then (c) juxtaposing said semiconductor element and leads with a further element having pads thereon, said pads having an extent in a direction transverse to the tip ends of the leads larger than the widths of the tip ends of said leads, and bonding said tip ends of said leads to said pads. 56. The method as claimed in claim 55 wherein said pads are round pads at least about 150 .mu.m in diameter and said lead tip ends are about 75 .mu.m wide or less. 57. The method as claimed in claim 55 wherein said pads are elongated in directions transverse to the tip ends of the leads. 58. The method as claimed in claim 57 wherein said pads are elongated lead sections, whereby bonding of said lead tip ends to said pads forms generally L-shaped composite leads extending between said semiconductor element and said further element. 59. The method as claimed in claim 55 further comprising moving said further element through a predetermined displacement away from said microelectronic element so as to deform said leads towards a vertically-extensive disposition. 60. The method as claimed in claim 59 further comprising the step of introducing a flowable material around said leads during or after said moving step and curing said flowable material for form a complaint layer surrounding said leads. 61. The method as claimed in claim 55 wherein said further element includes a sheetlike dielectric element having said pads on a bottom surface facing toward said semiconductor element and having terminals on a top surface facing away from said semiconductor element, at least some of said pads being connected to said terminals. 62. The method as claimed in claim 61 wherein at least some of said pads and said terminals are provided as unitary via structures extending through said sheetlike dielectric element, each said via structure having a bottom end forming one said pad and a top end forming one said terminal. 63. The method as claimed in claim 55 wherein said further element includes terminal structures defining said pads, said terminal structures being disposed on a temporary support and connected to one another only by said temporary support, the method further comprising removing said support from said terminal structures after moving said further element and said semiconductor element away from one another. 64. The method as claimed in claim 55 wherein said semiconductor element includes a masking layer having openings at said contacts, said step of forming said leads on said semiconductor element including forming the leads on said masking layer. 65. The method as claimed in claim 55 wherein said contacts are disposed at first center-to-center distances from one another and said pads are disposed at second center-to-center distances larger than said first center-to-center distances. 66. A method as claimed in claim 65 wherein at least some of said first center-to-center distances are less than about 100 .mu.m and at least some of said second center-to-center distances are more than about 200 .mu.m. 67. The method as claimed in claim 55 wherein said further element includes a rigid support having a uniform coefficient of thermal expansion, said pads being held in a preselected pattern on said rigid support at least until completion of said bonding step. 68. The method as claimed in claim 67 wherein said pads are releasably secured to said support, the method further comprising removing said support from said pads after said bonding step. 69. The method as claimed in claim 68 wherein said pads are secured to said support by a connecting material, said removing said support including degrading said connecting material by directing radiation through said support. 70. The method as claimed in claim 67 wherein the coefficient of thermal expansion of said support is substantially equal to the coefficient of thermal expansion of said semiconductor element. 71. An element for forming microelectronic assemblies including: (a) a rigid support having a substantially uniform coefficient of thermal expansion; (b) a plurality of electrically conductive structures defining pads facing away from said support, said conductive structures being releasably connected to said support, said pads being about 150 .mu.m to about 400 .mu.m in diameter. 72. An element as claimed in claim 71 wherein said conductive structures are connected to said support by a connecting material, said support being transparent to radiation in a band of wavelengths effective to degrade said connecting material. 73. An element as claimed in claim 71 wherein said conductive structures are connected to said support by a connecting material susceptible to degradation upon heating. 74. An element as claimed in claim 71 wherein said conductive structures are connected to one another only by said support. 75. A semiconductor element comprising: (a) a semiconductor body having a surface, contacts and circuits within said body connected to said circuits; and (b) a plurality of leads overlying said surface, said leads having first ends fixed to said body and having second ends displaceable with respect to said body, at least some of said leads being multiconductor leads, each said multiconductor lead including a plurality of conductors and dielectric material insulating said conductors from one another. 76. A semiconductor element as claimed in claim 75 wherein at least some of said contacts are arranged in sets of mutually-adjacent contacts, said sets of contacts being associated with circuits within said body so that for at least some sets of contacts, a plurality of contacts in the same set are connected to the same circuit and to conductors of the same lead. 77. A semiconductor element as claimed in claim 75 wherein said body is a wafer incorporating a plurality of chips, each such chip including contacts and circuits as aforesaid. 78. A method of making a microelectronic assembly comprising assembling a semiconductor device as claimed in claim 75 with a further element so that the conductors of said multiconductor leads are connected to contacts on said further element and moving said further element and semiconductor device away from one another so as to deform said multiconductor leads to a vertically-extensive disposition. 79. A method as claimed in claim 78 further comprising the steps of injecting a flowable material between said semiconductor device and said further element and curing said flowable material to form a layer surrounding said leads. 80. A method as claimed in claim 78 wherein said further element includes an electrically conductive potential plane and one or more of said conductors are connected to said potential plane. 81. A method as claimed in claim 78 wherein said semiconductor element is a wafer incorporating a plurality of chips, and wherein said further element has a CTE substantially matched to the CTE of said wafer. 