A method and apparatus for automated interfacing with a processing tool in a manufacturing environment having a tilt mechanism and a rotation mechanism. In one embodiment, semiconductor wafers in a cassette are presented to a processing tool by tilting the cassette during movement towards the tool. The tilt mechanism provides a means for seating the wafers in the cassette. The rotation mechanism allows the cassette to be adjusted to meet a robotic arm which extracts wafers from the cassette. Where the cassette is part of a Standard Mechanical InterFace (SMIF) system, the pod is placed onto the interface apparatus, where the pod cover is removed to allow processing of the wafers. A bellows is provided to cover the exposed cassette, thus creating an extended mini-environment including the interface apparatus, tool, and pod cover. In one embodiment, the interface apparatus includes robotic arms and a lift mechanism. Operation of the lift mechanism to open a container effects the positioning of the robotic arms to transfer the container to the tool. In one embodiment, semiconductor wafers in a cassette are ionized as the robotic arms position to grip the cassette. A gripping mechanism is adapted to grip a variety of containers in a variety of positions. A base receiver accepts containers in a first and a second orientation. A main controller provides control to a plurality of motors and functional blocks within the interface apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising the steps of: positioning a pod having a removable cover on an interface apparatus, wherein the pod contains one or more articles for processing by a processing tool; opening the pod by movement of the removable cover, wherein a controlled environment is established by the processing tool, interface apparatus and the pod; presenting ions to the one or more articles; accessing the one or more articles with a robot arm; and processing the one or more articles with the processing tool, wherein a manufacturing process is performed on the one or more articles. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein, during access of the one or more articles by the robot arm, ions are presented to the one or more articles. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the ions are generated by an ion bar. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein a gas flows over the ion bar, wherein the gas flow sweeps ions across the one or more articles. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the ion bar is positioned on a robot arm. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the ion bar is positioned on a gripper on the robot arm. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the gripper engages a cassette holding the one or more articles. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the ions are presented to the one or more articles prior to the gripper engaging the cassette. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the ions presented to the one or more articles balance oppositely charged ions within an extended mini environment comprising the processing tool, the interface apparatus and the pod. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of providing a flow of inert gas over the one or more articles. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the inert gas comprises nitrogen. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the inert gas is filtered prior to flowing over the one or more articles. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the inert gas is filtered by a point of use filter. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the inert gas is provided by the interface apparatus. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the inert gas is provided by the processing tool or external to the processing tool. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more articles comprise one or more items selected from the group consisting of silicon wafers, integrated circuits, hard disks, liquid crystal displays, flat panel displays, imaging devices, infra red sensors, aerospace components, and optical implements. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein, upon opening the pod, an enclosure is established between the pod cover and a pod base. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the enclosure comprises a bellows. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the bellows comprises a flexible material. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the bellows comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of opening the pod comprises vertically lifting the removable cover from a pod base. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the removable cover is vertically lifted with a vertically movable plate, wherein an enclosure is established by an element extending vertically downward from the vertically movable plate. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the element comprises a bellows. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the bellows comprises a flexible material. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the bellows comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of processing the one or more articles comprises the steps of: positioning the one or more articles inside the processing tool with a robot arm on the interface apparatus; and processing the one or more articles with the processing tool. 27. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: closing the pod; moving the pod to a second processing tool; and performing a second processing on the one or more articles with the second processing tool. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the pod comprises a SMIF pod. 29. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of providing filtered air between the interface apparatus and the processing tool. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the air is filtered with a point of use filter. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein the air is filtered with a filter comprising polytetrafluoroethylene. 32. A method of manufacturing at least one article, comprising the steps of: positioning the article in a carrier; closing the carrier by moving a cover element to a carrier base; engaging the carrier with an interface apparatus; opening the carrier by movement of the cover element, wherein a controlled environment is established by the processing tool, interface apparatus and the carrier; presenting ions to the one or more articles; accessing the one or more articles with a robot arm; and performing a manufacturing process on the article with the processing tool. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein, during access of the one or more articles by the robot arm, ions are presented to the article. 34. The method of claim 32, wherein the ions are generated by an ion bar. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein a gas flows over the ion bar, wherein the gas flow sweeps ions across the article. 36. The method of claim 34, wherein the ion bar is positioned on a robot arm. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein the ion bar is positioned on a gripper on the robot arm. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein the gripper engages a cassette holding the article. 39. The method of claim 38, wherein the ions are presented to the article prior to the gripper engaging the cassette. 40. The method of claim 32, wherein the ions presented to the article balance oppositely charged ions within an extended mini environment comprising the processing tool, the interface apparatus and the carrier. 41. The method of claim 32, further comprising the step of providing a flow of inert gas over the article. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein the inert gas comprises nitrogen. 43. The method of claim 41, wherein the inert gas is filtered prior to flowing over the article. 44. The method of claim 41, wherein the inert gas is filtered by a point of use filter. 45. The method of claim 41, wherein the inert gas is provided by the interface apparatus. 46. The method of claim 46, wherein the inert gas is provided by the processing tool or external to the processing tool. 47. The method of claim 32, wherein the article comprises an item elected from the group consisting of silicon waters, integrated circuits, hard disks, liquid crystal displays, flat panel displays, imaging devices, infra red sensors, aerospace components and optical implements. 48. The method of claim 32, wherein, upon opening the carrier, an enclosure is established between the cover element and the carrier base. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein the enclosure comprises a bellows. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein the bellows comprises a flexible material. 51. The method of claim 49, wherein the bellows comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. 52. The method of claim 32, wherein the step of opening the carrier comprises vertically lifting the cover element from a carrier base. 53. The method of claim 52, wherein the removable cover is vertically lifted with a vertically movable plate, wherein an enclosure is established by an element extending vertically downward from the vertically movable plate. 54. The method of claim 53, wherein the element comprises a bellows. 55. The method of claim 54, wherein the bellows comprises a flexible material. 56. The method of claim 54, wherein the bellows comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. 57. The method of claim 32, wherein the step of performing a manufacturing process on the article comprises the steps of: positioning the article inside the processing tool with a robot arm on the interface apparatus; and processing the article with the processing tool. 58. The method of claim 32, further comprising the steps of: closing the carrier; moving the carrier to a second processing tool; and performing a second processing on the article with the second processing tool. 59. The method of claim 32, wherein the carrier comprises a SMIF pod. 60. The method of claim 32, further comprising the step of providing filtered air between the interface apparatus and the processing tool. 61. The method of claim 60, wherein the air is filtered with a point of use filter. 62. The method of claim 60, wherein the air is filtered with a filter comprising polytetrafluoroethylene. 63. A method, comprising the steps of: positioning a pod having a removable cover on an interface apparatus, wherein the pod contains one or more articles for processing by a processing tool; opening the pod by movement of the removable cover, wherein a controlled environment is established by the processing tool, interface apparatus and the pod; presenting ions to the one or more articles; and accessing the one or more articles with a robot arm. 64. The method of claim 63, wherein, after the one or more articles are accessed by the robot arm, the one or more articles are available for processing with the processing tool, wherein a manufacturing process is performed on the one or more articles. 65. The method of claim 63, wherein, during access of the one or more articles by the robot arm, ions are presented to the one or more articles. 66. The method of claim 63, wherein the ions are generated by an ion bar. 67. The method of claim 66, wherein a gas flows over the ion bar, wherein the gas flow sweeps ions across the one or more articles. 68. The method of claim 66, wherein the ion bar is positioned on a robot arm. 69. The method of claim 68, wherein the ion bar is positioned on a gripper on the robot arm. 70. The method of claim 69, wherein the gripper engages a cassette holding the one or more articles. 71. The method of claim 70, wherein the ions are presented to the one or more articles prior to the gripper engaging the cassette. 72. The method of claim 63, wherein the ions presented to the one or more articles balance oppositely charged ions within an extended mini environment comprising the processing tool, the interface apparatus and the pod. 73. The method of claim 63, further comprising the step of providing a flow of inert gas over the one or more articles. 74. The method of claim 73, wherein the inert gas comprises nitrogen. 75. The method of claim 73, wherein the inert gas is filtered prior to flowing over the one or more articles. 76. The method of claim 73, wherein the inert gas is filtered by a point of use filter. 77. The method of claim 73, wherein the inert gas is provided by the interface apparatus. 78. The method of claim 73, wherein the inert gas is provided by the processing tool or external to the processing tool. 79. The method of claim 63, wherein the one or more articles comprise one or more items selected from the group consisting of silicon wafers, integrated circuits, hard disks, liquid crystal displays, flat panel displays, imaging devices, infra red sensors, aerospace components, and optical implements. 80. The method of claim 63, wherein, upon opening the pod, an enclosure is established between the pod cover and a pod base. 81. The method of claim 80, wherein the enclosure comprises a bellows. 82. The method of claim 81, wherein the bellows comprises a flexible material. 83. The method of claim 81, wherein the bellows comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. 84. The method of claim 63, wherein the step of opening the pod comprises vertically lifting the removable cover from a pod base. 85. The method of claim 84, wherein the removable cover is vertically lifted with a vertically movable plate, wherein an enclosure is established by an element extending vertically downward from the vertically movable plate. 86. The method of claim 85, wherein the element comprises a bellows. 87. The method of claim 86, wherein the bellows comprises a flexible material. 88. The method of claim 86, wherein the bellows comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. 89. The method of claim 63, further comprising the steps of: positioning the one or more articles inside the processing tool with a robot arm on the interface apparatus; and processing the one or more articles with the processing tool. 90. The method of claim 63, further comprising the steps of: closing the pod; moving the pod to a second processing tool; and performing a second processing on the one or more articles with the second processing tool. 91. The method of claim 63, wherein the pod comprises a SMIF pod. 92. The method of claim 63, further comprising the step of providing filtered air between the interface apparatus and the processing tool. 93. The method of claim 92, wherein the air is filtered with a point of use filter. 94. The method of claim 92, wherein the air is filtered with a filter comprising polytetrafluoroethylene. 