Data reduction for testing results obtained from the diagnostic testing of signal integrity at node points along a PC board using a Rank-of-Ranks data analysis methodology. The Rank-of-Ranks methodology including a reduction of node points along the PC board by the application of a node point reduction algorithm. Calculating a ratio of the Standard Deviation by the Mean for each node point and for each testing parameter to arrive at a Coefficient of Variation. Each node point is sorted and ranked based on the Coefficient of Variation for each tested parameter at a time. At each node point, Rank values of all the parameters are summed and then sorted on the basis of the Rank values. The node points are Re-ranked based on the sorted Rank values. The Re-ranked node points are entered into an ordered list or matrix where critical node points are chosen from the top of the Re-ranked node points for study, re-design and/or further testing of the PC board.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing data reduction on a set of node point data, comprising the steps of: obtaining a set of raw data representing a plurality of node points: testing each of said plurality of node points by taking sample measurements of a plurality of selected testing parameters; computing a standard deviation and mean for each of said sample measurements for each of said plurality of selected testing parameters; calculating a Coefficient of Variation for each of said plurality of selected testing parameters as a ratio of the standard deviation of a selected testing parameter to the mean for the selected testing parameter, for each node point; and sorting and ranking each selected testing parameter based on the Coefficient of Variation for each parameter. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said methodology further includes an initial reduction step performed before the testing step wherein the quantity of analyzed node points, and a corresponding amount of raw data, are reduced by application of node point reduction selection criterion. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the plurality of node points are located on a Printed Circuit Board and the initial reduction step involves applying selection criterion that eliminates from testing selected node points including at least one of ground points, voltage points, driver outputs and points associated with discrete components. 4. The method of claim 1 further including the step of summing the rank values at each node point of all the plurality of selected testing parameters, then sorting the plurality of selected testing parameters on the basis of summed rank value. 5. The method of claim 4 further including the step of entering the sorted and ranked plurality of selected testing parameters into an ordered list with critical node points located at the top of the ordered list. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of node points are located on a Printed Circuit Board (PCB) and each of said plurality of node points is identified by a node name and associated node position in an x-y-z coordinate system. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the step of testing involves the plurality of node points being physically tested by a probe positioned on a robot which moves along the plurality of node points as a function of respective position in the x-y-z coordinate system. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said set of raw data is obtained from diagnostic testing of signal integrity at node points situated on at least one PC board. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the selected testing parameters include at least one of rise time, fall time, preshoot, overshoot, base voltage, top voltage, minimum voltage, and maximum voltage. 10. An apparatus for performing data reduction to results of diagnostic testing of signal integrity on a Printed Circuit Board (PCB), comprising: a first processor receiving a set of raw data representing a plurality of node points on said PCB, said processor performing an initial reduction wherein the quantity of said plurality of node points, and a corresponding amount of raw data, are reduced by application of node point reduction selection criterion to provide a reduced plurality of nodes identified by respective node names and associated node positions in an x-y-z coordinate system relative to the PCB; a robot receiving said reduced plurality of nodes identified by respective node names and associated node positions in an x-y-z coordinate system relative to the PCB, said robot physically manipulating a test apparatus to locate said test apparatus at each of said reduced plurality of nodes to perform diagnostic testing at each of said reduced plurality of nodes; and a second processor receiving diagnostic test data from said test apparatus in the form of sample measurements of a plurality of selected testing parameters taken at each of said reduced plurality of node points, said second processor computing a standard deviation and mean for each of said sample measurements for each of said plurality of selected testing parameters and calculating a Coefficient of Variation for each of said plurality of selected testing parameters as a ratio of the standard deviation of a selected testing parameter to the mean for the selected testing parameter, for each node point, said second processor further sorting and ranking each selected testing parameter based on the Coefficient of Variation for each parameter. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said node point reduction selection criterion include eliminating from testing selected node points including at least one of ground points, voltage points, driver outputs and points associated with discrete components. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said test apparatus is an oscilloscope probe. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said diagnostic testing includes measuring selected testing parameters include at least one of rise time, fall time, preshoot, overshoot, base voltage, top voltage, minimum voltage, and maximum voltage. 14. An apparatus for performing data reduction to results of diagnostic testing of signal integrity on a Printed Circuit Board (PCB), comprising: means for testing each of a plurality of node points by taking sample measurements of a plurality of selected testing parameters; means for computing a standard deviation and mean for each of said sample measurements for each of said plurality of selected testing parameters; means for calculating a Coefficient of Variation for each of said plurality of selected testing parameters as a ratio of the standard deviation of a selected testing parameter to the mean for the selected testing parameter, for each node point; and means for sorting and ranking each selected testing parameter based on the Coefficient of Variation for each parameter. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 further including means for performing an initial reduction before testing wherein the quantity of analyzed node points, and a corresponding amount of raw data, are reduced by application of node point reduction selection criterion. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the plurality of node points are located on a Printed Circuit Board and the initial reduction step involves applying selection criterion that eliminates from testing selected node points including at least one of ground points, voltage points, driver outputs and points associated with discrete components. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 further including means for summing the rank values at each node point of all the plurality of selected testing parameters, then sorting the plurality of selected testing parameters on the basis of summed rank value. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 further including means for entering the sorted and ranked plurality of selected testing parameters into an ordered list with critical node points located at the top of the ordered list. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the selected testing parameters include at least one of rise time, fall time, preshoot, overshoot, base voltage, top voltage, minimum voltage, and maximum voltage. 