An imaging reference system is provided for increasing the placement accuracy of an industrial robot system. The system can employ an air bearing assembly for allowing a workpiece holder to move therealong. The imaging reference system can be coupled to the air bearing assembly or integrated into the manipulator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for placing a workpiece on a substrate for subsequent use in an image forming system, comprising: a manipulator for moving the workpiece, an air bearing assembly including a movable workpiece holder adapted for translational movement along the air bearing assembly, and an image referencing system disposed relative to the air bearing assembly for acquiring image data corresponding to the workpiece being moved by the manipulator. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a workpiece source for housing a plurality of workpieces. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the image referencing system comprises a plurality of image acquisition elements for acquiring image data corresponding to the workpiece. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the image referencing system comprises a first image acquisition element for acquiring image data of a reference workpiece disposed on the substrate, a second image acquisition element for acquiring image data of the workpiece being moved by the manipulator. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the manipulator comprises a controller for controlling movement thereof. 6. The system of claim 5, further comprising a feedback connection between the image referencing system and the controller for controlling movement of the manipulator based on the acquired image data. 7. A system for moving a workpiece, comprising: an air bearing assembly, a manipulator, coupled to the air bearing assembly and adapted for movement therealong, for moving the workpiece, and an imaging referencing system coupled to the air bearing assembly and adapted for movement therealong for acquiring image data of the workpiece being moved by the manipulator. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said manipulator comprises: a base portion coupled to the air bearing assembly and adapted for translational movement therealong, a rotary member coupled to the base portion for allowing the manipulator to rotate, and an arm member coupled to the rotary member for selectively moving the workpiece. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein said imaging reference system comprises a first image acquisition element for acquiring image data of the workpiece being moved by the manipulator, and a second image acquisition element for acquiring position reference data. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said second image acquisition element acquires data of a fixed target disposed on a base, said data corresponding to the location of the manipulator. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein said manipulator comprises a controller for controlling movement of the manipulator, said system further comprising a feedback connection disposed between the imaging reference system and the manipulator for controlling movement of the manipulator based upon the image data acquired from the first and second image acquisition elements. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said second image acquisition element acquires reference data of a fixed target disposed on a base, and wherein said controller determines the position of the manipulator based upon said reference data. 13. A system for moving a workpiece, comprising: an air bearing assembly, and a manipulator coupled to the air bearing assembly for moving the workpiece, said manipulator including a controller for controlling movement thereof, and first and second image acquisition elements for acquiring image data corresponding to the workpiece. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said controller determines the location and orientation of the workpiece handled by the manipulator from said image data acquired by said first and second image acquisition elements. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein said manipulator further comprises: a base portion coupled to the air bearing assembly and adapted for translational movement therealong, a rotary member coupled to the base portion, an arm member coupled to the rotary member, and a wrist portion coupled to the arm member for selectively moving the workpiece. 