A high throughput screening method for identifying a compound that binds to a target species. The method includes: incubating a plurality of test mixtures under isothermal denaturing conditions, each test mixture including at least one test compound and at least one target species, wherein the isothermal denaturing conditions are effective to cause at least a portion of the target species to denature to a measurable extent. The method further involves detecting a denaturation signal of each target species in the presence of the at least one test compound; and comparing the denaturation signal of each target species in the presence of the at least one test compound with a denaturation signal of the same target species in the absence of the at least one test compound under the same isothermal denaturing conditions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A high throughput screening method for identifying a test compound that binds to a target species, the method comprising: incubating a plurality of test mixtures under isothermal denaturing conditions, each test mixture comprising at least one test compound, and at least one target species, wherein the isothermal denaturing conditions are effective to cause at least a portion of the target species to denature to a measurable extent; detecting a denaturation signal of each target species in the presence of the at least one test compound; and comparing the denaturation signal of each target species in the presence of at least one test compound with a denaturation signal of the same target species in the absence of the at least one test compound under the same isothermal denaturing conditions. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the target species is a polypeptide or polynucleotide. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the target species is a protein. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the compound binds specifically to the target species. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the compound binds to the target species through covalent, hydrophobic, ionic, or hydrogen bonding interactions. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein detecting the denaturation signal comprises detecting a fluorescence signal, a change in UV absorbance, a change in molar ellipticity, a spectral shift in an infra-red spectrum, a spectral shift in an NMR spectrum, or a change in mobility on a support material. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein detecting the denaturation signal comprises detecting a fluorescence signal. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the isothermal denaturation conditions comprise a temperature equal to or about 10.degree. C. more or less than the T.sub.m value of the target species as determined by differential scanning calorimetry. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the isothermal denaturation conditions comprise a temperature equal to or up to about 10.degree. C. less than the T.sub.m value of the target species as determined by differential scanning calorimetry. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising incubating at least one test compound, at least one target species, and at least one reporter molecule under isothermal denaturing conditions. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the concentrations of the test compound and the reporter molecule are of comparable magnitude. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the concentration of the test compound is in at least a 10-fold excess relative to the concentration of the target species. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein the reporter molecule is a fluorescent reporter molecule. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein each test mixture includes one target species. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein each test mixture includes at least two test compounds. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein each test mixture includes two to ten test compounds. 17. A high throughput screening method for identifying a test compound that binds to a protein, the method comprising: incubating a plurality of test mixtures under isothermal denaturing conditions, each test mixture comprising at least one test compound, at least one reporter molecule, and at least one protein, wherein the isothermal denaturing conditions are effective to cause at least a portion of the target species to denature to a measurable extent; detecting a denaturation signal of each protein in the presence of the at least one test compound; and comparing the denaturation signal of each protein in the presence of at least one test compound with a denaturation signal of the same protein in the absence of the at least one test compound under the same isothermal denaturing conditions. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the reporter molecule is a fluorescent reporter molecule. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein each test mixture includes one target species. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein each test mixture includes at least two test compounds. 