A positioning assembly is presented for positioning a substantially disk-shaped workpiece in a registered position. The positioning assembly comprises spaced-apart guiding members defining a common support plane for supporting the workpiece, such that they engage the circumference of the workpiece at spaced-apart locations. Each guiding member is mounted for pivotal movement in the support plane between its two extreme positions. The movements of the guiding members transport the workpiece towards the registered position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A positioning assembly for positioning a substantially disk-shaped workpiece in a registered position, the assembly comprising at least three spaced-apart guiding members, which define a common support plane for supporting the workpiece and are capable of engaging the circumference of the workpiece at three spaced-apart locations, wherein each of said guiding members is mounted for pivotal movement in said support plane between its two extreme positions, the movements of the guiding members transport the workpiece towards said registered position, each of said guiding members comprising at least two supporting surfaces vertically aligned in a spaced-apart parallel relationship and at least two guiding edges, each inclined relative to the respective supporting surface and being capable of engaging the circumference of the workpiece. 2. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein said desired location of the workpiece is located within a working area of a processing tool, said registered position is defined by the coincidence of an axis of the workpiece and an axis defined by said working area. 3. The assembly according to claim 2, wherein said processing tool is an inspection machine defining an inspection plane. 4. The assembly according to claim 3, wherein said common support plane is located within said inspection plane. 5. The assembly according to claim 3, wherein said common support plane is parallel to said inspection plane. 6. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein said supporting surface is inclined relative to a horizontal plane. 7. The assembly according to claim 6, wherein the guiding edge is made springy relative to the edge of the workpiece contacting the guiding edge. 8. The assembly according to claim 7, wherein the springing guiding edge is in a form of projection. 9. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein the guiding members have adjustable lengths along the supporting plane. 10. A processing tool for processing substantially disk-shaped workpieces, the processing tool being associated with a positioning assembly for positioning the workpiece in a registered position with respect to the processing tool, wherein the positioning assembly comprises at least three spaced-apart guiding members, which define a common support plane for supporting the workpiece and are capable of engaging the circumference of the workpiece at three spaced-apart locations, each of said guiding members being mounted for pivotal movement in said support plane between its two extreme positions, such that the movements of the guiding members transport the workpiece towards said registered position, each of said guiding members comprising at least two supporting surfaces vertically aligned in a spaced-apart parallel relationship and at least two guiding edges, each inclined relative to the respective supporting surface and being capable of engaging the circumference of the workpiece. 