A position/movement sensitive effect-emitting strain gauge device includes a responsive portion, such as an electrically conductive fabric, that can be stretched or relaxed and that changes an electrical property, such as resistance, when stretched or relaxed. The changeable electrical property of the responsive portion is detected by a regulating circuit, which sends a signal that depends on the detected electrical property to an effect-emitting component. The effect may be sound or light emission or the like. The shape of the responsive portion can be such as to allow it to fit over a body part, e.g., a tube shape would allow it to fit over an elbow. When worn, the electrical property of the responsive portion, and therefore the emitted effect, depends on the user's positions/movements.
Claims I claim: 1. An effect-emitting strain gauge device comprising: an electrically conductive fabric capable of changing its electrical properties in response to stretching or relaxing; a signal control circuit coupled with the electrically conductive fabric, the signal control circuit outputting a signal corresponding to the electrical properties of the electrically conductive fabric; and at least one effect-emitting device coupled with the signal control circuit, the at least one effect-emitting device receiving the signal from the signal control circuit and emitting an effect according to the signal. 2. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, further comprising means for attaching the device to a body. 3. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 2, wherein the electrical properties of the electrically conductive fabric change according to movement or a position of the body. 4. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 3, wherein the signal output by the signal control circuit varies with the position of the body. 5. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 3, wherein the signal output by the signal control circuit varies depending on at least one of speed, acceleration and number of movements by the body. 6. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, wherein the electrically conductive fabric comprises coated fibers. 7. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, wherein the electrical properties comprise resistance. 8. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, wherein the electrical properties comprise one of capacitance, inductance and impedance. 9. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, wherein the effect emitted by the at least one effect-emitting device comprises at least one of sound, light, infrared light, radio frequency electromagnetic radiation, electric shock, movement, and change in temperature. 10. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 9, where a sound emitting effect-emitting device comprises one of a music synthesizer, a sound chip, an interchangeable sound cartridge, a magnetic tape player, a compact disk player, and a radio. 11. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 9, where a light emitting effect-emitting device comprises one of light bulbs, light emitting diodes, lasers, and displays. 12. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, further comprising a power source coupled with the signal control circuit, the power source comprising one of batteries, solar cells, a.c. wall current, self-winding watch type generators, and springs. 13. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, wherein the effect emitted by the at least one effect-emitting device is varied in proportion to a change in the electrical properties of the electrically conductive fabric. 14. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, wherein the signal control circuit compares the electrical properties of the electrically conductive fabric to a set value so that an effect is generated by the at least one effect-emitting device if the electrical properties deviate from the set value. 15. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, further comprising means for selecting among emitted effects. 16. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 15, further comprising means for controlling a sequence of the emitted effects. 17. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 15, wherein the at least one effect-emitting device comprises means for controlling timing of the emitted effects. 18. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, further comprising means for detecting a rate of change of the electrically conductive fabric's electrical properties. 19. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, comprising a plurality of effect-emitting devices, the effect-emitting strain gauge device further comprising a socket selectively receiving at least one of the effect-emitting devices. 20. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, wherein the at least one effect-emitting device is used in combination with at least one of playthings, games, books, sports equipment, decorations, educational tools, recreational equipment, and medical apparatus. 21. An effect-emitting strain gauge device according to claim 1, wherein the electrically conductive fabric is made from one of conjugated polymer-coated fibers, metal-coated fibers, carbon-coated fibers, polypyrrole-coated fibers, and polyaniline-coated fibers. 