A robotic apparatus adapted for locomotion in an enclosed space such as a pipe includes a combination of articulated gripping and locomotive modules. Each gripping module includes an actuator mechanically linked to gripping members such that axial forces produced by the actuator are translated to radial forces in the gripping members, whereby the gripping members are caused to alternately hold and release the engagement of the robotic apparatus with surfaces of the enclosed space. Each locomotive module includes one or more actuators adapted to alternatively expand and contract the length of the locomotive module. The sequence of operations of the gripping and locomotive modules can be controlled such that the robotic apparatus can crawl through the enclosed space in an inchworm-like fashion and is capable of navigating turns and traversing inclines.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic apparatus adapted for locomotion in an enclosed space comprising: (a) a front segment including a front work-energy transfer device mounted thereto in operative communication with a power supply source, a plurality of front radial displacement members extending radially outwardly with respect to the front segment, and a front mechanical linkage interconnecting the front work-energy transfer device and each front radial displacement member to translate axial motion of the front work-energy transfer device into radial motion of each front radial displacement member; (b) a medial segment including first and second medial work-energy transfer devices mounted thereto in operative communication with the power supply source, the first medial work-energy transfer device including a first axial translation member and the second medial work-energy transfer device including a second axial translation member disposed in opposing axia relation to the first axial translation member to enable expansion and contraction of an overall length of the medial segment; (c) a first flexible coupling interconnecting the front segment and the first axi; translation member; (d) a rear segment including a rear work-energy transfer device mounted thereto in operative communication with the power supply source, a plurality of rear radial displacement members extending radially outwardly with respect to the rear segment, and a rear mechanical linkage interconnecting the rear work-energy transfer device and each rear radial displacement member to translate axial motion of the rear work-energy transfer device into radial motion of each rear radial displacement member; and (e) a second flexible coupling interconnecting the second axial translation member and the rear segment. 2. The robotic apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of the work-energy transfer devices includes a linear actuator. 3. The robotic apparatus according to claim 2 wherein each of the front and rear work-energy transfer devices includes a reverse-action pneumatic cylinder and each of the first and second medial work-energy transfer devices includes a normal-action pneumatic cylinder. 4. The robotic apparatus according to claim 2 wherein each of the work-energy transfer devices includes a double-acting pneumatic cylinder. 5. The robotic apparatus according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the work-energy transfer devices includes a pneumatic cylinder. 6. The robotic apparatus according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the work-energy transfer devices includes a hydraulic cylinder. 7. The robotic apparatus according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the work-energy transfer devices includes a solenoid in driving communication with a reciprocative plunger member. 8. The robotic apparatus according to claim 1 comprising a sensing device communicating with an electrical power source. 9. The robotic apparatus according to claim 1 comprising a manipulative instrument communicating with an instrument power source. 10. The robotic apparatus according to claim 1 wherein: (a) the front segment includes a plurality of front gripping members, each front gripping member attached to a corresponding one of the plurality of front radial displacement members; and (b) the rear segment includes a plurality of rear gripping members, each rear gripping member attached to a corresponding one of the plurality of rear radial displacement members. 11. A robotic apparatus adapted for locomotion in an enclosed space comprising: (a) a plurality of leveraging segments, wherein each leveraging segment includes a leveraging segment work-energy transfer device mounted thereto in operative communication with a power supply source, a plurality of radial displacement members extending radially outwardly with respect to each leveraging segment, and a mechanical linkage interconnecting the leveraging segment work-energy transfer device and each radial displacement member to translate axial motion of the leveraging segment work-energy transfer device into radial motion of each radial displacement member; (b) a plurality of locomotive segments, wherein each locomotive segment includes first and second locomotive segment work-energy transfer devices mounted thereto in operative communication with the power supply source, the first locomotive segment work-energy transfer device including a first displacement member and the second locomotive segment work-energy transfer device including a second displacement member disposed in opposing axial relation to the first displacement member to enable expansion and contraction of an overall length of the medial segment; and (c) a plurality of flexible couplings interconnecting the leveraging segments and the first and second displacement members of the locomotive segments. 12. The robotic apparatus according to claim 11 wherein at least one of the leveraging segments comprises a plurality of gripping members, each gripping member attached to a corresponding one of the plurality of radial displacement members of the at least one leveraging segment. 13. A robotic apparatus adapted for locomotion in an enclosed space comprising: (a) a front segment including a front frame, a front work-energy transfer device mounted to the front frame in operative communication with a power supply source and including a front displacement member, a plurality of front leg members extending radially outwardly with respect to a central longitudinal axis of the front segment, and a front mechanical linkage interconnecting the front displacement member and each front leg member to translate axial motion of the front displacement member into radial motion of each front leg member; (b) a medial segment including a medial frame, a first medial work-energy transfer device mounted to the medial frame in operative communication with the power supply source and including a first medial displacement member, and a second medial work-energy transfer device mounted to the medial frame in operative communication with the power supply source and including a second medial displacement member; (c) a first flexible coupling interconnecting the front segment and the medial segment; (d) a rear segment including a rear frame, a rear work-energy transfer device mounted to the rear frame in operative communication with the power supply source and including a rear displacement member, a plurality of rear leg members extending radially outwardly with respect to a central longitudinal axis of the rear segment, and a rear mechanical linkage interconnecting the rear displacement member and each rear leg member to translate axial motion of the rear displacement member into radial motion of each rear leg member; and (e) a second flexible coupling interconnecting the medial segment and the rear segment. 14. The robotic apparatus according to claim 13 wherein at least one of the work-energy transfer devices includes a pneumatic cylinder communicating with a compressed air supply source, and wherein the displacement member operatively corresponding to the pneumatic cylinder includes a reciprocative piston rod. 15. The robotic apparatus according to claim 13 wherein each of the front and rearwork-energy transfer devices includes a pneumatic cylinder and each of the first and second medial work-energy transfer devices includes a solenoid. 16. The robotic apparatus according to claim 13 wherein each of the front and rearwork-energy transfer devices includes a solenoid and each of the first and second medial work-energy transfer devices includes a pneumatic cylinder. 17. The robotic apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the frictional surface of each of the front and rear foot members is a resilient pad. 18. The robotic apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the front mechanical linkage includes a plurality of front bracket arms, each front bracket arm respectively connected to the front displacement member, to a corresponding one of the front leg members and to a corresponding one of a plurality of pivot points of the front frame. 19. The robotic apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the front mechanical linkage includes a central bracket connected to the front displacement member, a plurality of radial brackets attached to the front frame, and a plurality of bracket arms, each bracket arm pivotably connected to the central bracket, to a corresponding one of the radial brackets and to a corresponding one of the front leg members. 20. The robotic apparatus according to claim 13 wherein each of the first and second flexible couplings includes a tubular member. 21. The robotic apparatus according to claim 13 further comprising a plurality bumper members mounted to the front and rear segments. 22. The robotic apparatus according to claim 13 further comprising a sensing device mounted thereto. 23. The robotic apparatus according to claim 22 wherein the sensing device is a video camera. 24. The robotic apparatus according to claim 13 further comprising an instrument mounted thereto. 25. The robotic apparatus according to claim 13 further comprising a nose module attached to the front segment. 26. The robotic apparatus according to claim 25 further comprising a sensing device mounted to the nose module. 27. The robotic apparatus according to claim 26 wherein the nose module includes a transparent enclosure and the sensing device is disposed with the transparent enclosure. 28. The robotic apparatus according to claim 25 further comprising a light source mounted to the nose module. 29. The robotic apparatus according to claim 13 wherein: (a) the front segment comprises a plurality of front foot members, each front foot member including a frictional surface and attached to a corresponding one of the plurality of front leg members; and (b) the rear segment comprises a plurality of rear foot members, each rearfoot member including a frictional surface and attached to a corresponding one of the plurality of rear leg members. 30. A robotic apparatus adapted for locomotion in an enclosed space comprising: (a) a plurality of leveraging segments, wherein each leveraging segment includes a frame, a leveraging segment work-energy transfer device mounted to the frame in operative communication with a power supply source and including a leveraging segment displacement member, a plurality of leg members extending radially outwardly with respect to a central longitudinal axis of each leveraging segment, and a mechanical linkage interconnecting the leveraging segment displacement member and each leg member to translate axial motion of the leveraging segment displacement member into radial motion of each leg member; (b) a plurality of locomotive segments, wherein each locomotive segment includes a frame, a first locomotive segment work-energy transfer device mounted to the frame in operative communication with the power supply source and including a first locomotive segment displacement member, and a second locomotive segment work-energy transfer device mounted to the frame in operative communication with the power supply source and including a medial locomotive segment displacement member; and (c) a plurality of flexible couplings interconnecting the leveraging and locomotive segments. 31. The robotic apparatus according to claim 30 wherein at least one of the leveraging segments comprises a plurality of foot members, each foot member including a frictional surface and attached to a corresponding one of the plurality of leg members of the at least one leveraging segment. 32. A modular device adapted to enable forcible contact and stabilization of a robotic apparatus with respect to an enclosure through which the robotic apparatus crawls, the modular device comprising: (a) a structural frame; (b) a linearly actuating device mounted to the structural frame in operative communication with a power supply source and with a axially reciprocative displacement member; (c) a plurality of leg members extending radially outwardly with respect to a central longitudinal axis of the structural frame; (d) a plurality of foot members, each foot member including a frictional surface and attached to a corresponding one of the plurality of leg members; and (e) a mechanical linkage assembly interconnecting the displacement member and each leg member to translate axial motion of the displacement member into radial motion of each leg member. 33. The modular device according to claim 32 wherein the structural frame comprises a plurality of axially-oriented support members connected to a plurality of radially-oriented support members. 34. The modular device according to claim 33 wherein the linearly actuating device is mounted to at least one of the radially-oriented support plates. 35. The modular device according to claim 33 wherein at least one of the leg members slidably extends through a bore of one of the axially-oriented support members. 36. The modular device according to claim 32 wherein the linearly actuating device includes a fluid-operated cylinder, the power supply source includes a fluid supply source, and the displacement member includes a piston rod. 37. The modular device according to claim 32 wherein the linearly actuating device includes a reverse-acting device. 38. The modular device according to claim 32 wherein the linearly actuating device includes a double-acting device. 39. The modular device according to claim 32 wherein the mechanical linkage assembly includes a plurality of bracket arms, and each bracket arm is respectively connected to the displacement member, to a corresponding one of the leg members and to a corresponding one of a plurality of pivot points of the frame. 40. The modular device according to claim 32 wherein the mechanical linkage assembly includes a central bracket connected to the displacement member, a plurality of radial brackets attached to the frame, and a plurality of bracket arms, and each bracket arm is pivotally connected to the central bracket, to a corresponding one of the radial brackets and to a corresponding one of the leg members. 41. A robotic apparatus adapted for locomotion in an enclosed space comprising: (a) a front segment including a front work-energy transfer device mounted thereto in operative communication with a power supply source, a plurality of front radial displacement members extending radially outwardly with respect to the front segment, a plurality of front gripping members, each front gripping member attached to a corresponding one of the plurality of front radial displacement members, and a front mechanical linkage interconnecting the front work-energy transfer device and each front radial displacement member to translate axial motion of the front work-energy transfer device into radial motion of each front radial displacement member; (b) a medial segment including first and second medial work-energy transfer devices mounted thereto in operative communication with the power supply source, the first medial work-energy transfer device including a first axial translation member and the second medial work-energy transfer device including a second axial translation member disposed in opposing axial relation to the first axial translation member to enable expansion and contraction of an overall length of the medial segment; (c) a first flexible coupling interconnecting the front segment and the first axial translation member; (d) a rear segment including a rear work-energy transfer device mounted thereto in operative communication with the power supply source, a plurality of rear radial displacement members extending radially outwardly with respect to the rear segment, a plurality of rear gripping members, each rear gripping member attached to a corresponding one of the plurality of rear radial displacement members, and a rear mechanical linkage interconnecting the rear work-energy transfer device and each rear radial displacement member to translate axial motion of the rear work-energy transfer device into radial motion of each rear radial displacement member; and (e) a second flexible coupling interconnecting the second axial translation member and the rear segment. 42. The robotic apparatus according to claim 41 comprising a structural frame, wherein the structural frame comprises a plurality of axially-oriented support members connected to a plurality of radially-oriented support members. 43. The robotic apparatus according to claim 42 wherein at least one of the work-energy transfer devices is mounted to at least one of the radially-oriented support members. 44. The robotic apparatus according to claim 41 wherein the first and second medial work-energy transfer devices each includes a fluid-operated cylinder, the power supply source includes a fluid supply source, and the first and second axial translation members each include a piston rod. 45. The robotic apparatus according to claim 41 wherein at least one of the work-energy transfer devices includes a normal-acting device. 46. The robotic apparatus according to claim 41 wherein at least one of the work-energy transfer devices includes a double-acting device. 47. A robotic apparatus adapted for locomotion in an enclosed space comprising: (a) a plurality of leveraging segments, wherein each leveraging segment includes a leveraging segment work-energy transfer device mounted thereto in operative communication with a power supply source, a plurality of radial displacement members extending radially outwardly with respect to each leveraging segment, a plurality of gripping members, each gripping member attached to a corresponding one of the radial displacement members, and a mechanical linkage interconnecting the leveraging segment work-energy transfer device and each radial displacement member to translate axial motion of the leveraging segment work-energy transfer device into radial motion of each radial displacement member; (b) a plurality of locomotive segments, wherein each locomotive segment includes first and second locomotive segment work-energy transfer devices mounted thereto in operative communication with the power supply source, the first locomotive segment work-energy transfer device including a first displacement member and the second locomotive segment work-energy transfer device including a second displacement member disposed in opposing axial relation to the first displacement member to enable expansion and contraction of an overall length of the medial segment; and (c) a plurality of flexible couplings interconnecting the leveraging segments and the first and second displacement members of the locomotive segments. 48. A robotic apparatus adapted for locomotion in an enclosed space comprising: (a) a front segment including a front frame, a front work-energy transfer device mounted to the front frame in operative communication with a power supply source and including a front displacement member, a plurality of front leg members extending radially outwardly with respect to a central longitudinal axis of the front segment, a plurality of front foot members, each front foot member including a frictional surface and attached to a corresponding one of the plurality of front leg members, and a front mechanical linkage interconnecting the front displacement member and each front leg member to translate axial motion of the front displacement member into radial motion of each front leg member; (b) a medial segment including a medial frame, a first medial work-energy transfer device mounted to the medial frame in operative communication with the power supply source and including a first medial displacement member, and a second medial work-energy transfer device mounted to the medial frame in operative communication with the power supply source and including a second medial displacement member; (c) a first flexible coupling interconnecting the front segment and the medial segment; (d) a rear segment including a rear frame, a rear work-energy transfer device mounted to the rear frame in operative communication with the power supply source and including a rear displacement member, a plurality of rear leg members extending radially outwardly with respect to a central longitudinal axis of the rear segment, a plurality of rear foot members, each rear foot member including a frictional surface and attached to a corresponding one of the plurality of rear leg members, and a rear mechanical linkage interconnecting the rear displacement member and each rear leg member to translate axial motion of the rear displacement member into radial motion of each rear leg member; and (e) a second flexible coupling interconnecting the medial segment and the rear segment. 49. A robotic apparatus adapted for locomotion in an enclosed space comprising: (a) a plurality of leveraging segments, wherein each leveraging segment includes a frame, a leveraging segment work-energy transfer device mounted to the frame in operative communication with a power supply source and including a leveraging segment displacement member, a plurality of leg members extending radially outwardly with respect to a central longitudinal axis of each leveraging segment, a plurality of foot members, each foot member including a frictional surface and attached to a corresponding one of the plurality of leg members, and a mechanical linkage interconnecting the leveraging segment displacement member and each leg member to translate axial motion of the leveraging segment displacement member into radial motion of each leg member; (b) a plurality of locomotive segments, wherein each locomotive segment includes a frame, a first locomotive segment work-energy transfer device mounted to the frame in operative communication with the power supply source and including a first locomotive segment displacement member, and a second locomotive segment work-energy transfer device mounted to the frame in operative communication with the power supply source and including a medial locomotive segment displacement member; and (c) a plurality of flexible couplings interconnecting the leveraging and locomotive segments. 