A method for removing and transporting ophthalmic lens fabricating mold sections from a molding device to an inert chamber in a predetermined time, controlled by a central processor. The method includes starting a timer upon opening the molding device and exposing the mold sections; actuating a robotic arm to transport the mold sections from the molding device to an intermediate position using a compound movement; actuating a cam-controlled arm to transport the mold sections from the intermediate position to a pallet held on a conveyor belt at a cam-arm pre-part release location; and releasing the pallet to move on the conveyor belt to the inert chamber for continued transport of mold containing pallets to a treatment or processing facility for producing and/or packaging of the contact lenses.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A central supervisory processor controlled cycle on demand method for removing and transporting mold sections for fabricating ophthalmic lenses from a molding device to pallets located on a conveyor belt for transporting downstream to processing stations comprising the steps of: opening the molding device and exposing the mold sections; determining whether a first pallet is located in a queue position of the conveyor belt; when said first pallet is located in the queue position, actuating robotic and cam-controlled arms under control of said central supervisory processor, said robotic arm transporting the mold sections from the molding device to an intermediate position, and said cam-controlled arm transporting the mold sections from the intermediate position to a second pallet held on a conveyor belt at a cam-arm pre-part release location; and releasing said second pallet held at the cam-arm pre-part release location to move downstream on the conveyor belt to the processing stations. 2. The cycle on demand method of claim 1 further comprising, when said first pallet is not located in the queue position, stopping operation of said molding device and said robotic and cam-controlled arms; wherein said molding device is stopped in an open position containing the mold sections, and said robotic arm is stopped in a waiting position ready to enter the molding device upon resumption of operation; said stopped molding device and said stopped robotic and cam-controlled arms being ready to resume operation when said first pallet reaches the queue position. 3. A central supervisory processor controlled method for removing mold sections for fabricating ophthalmic lenses from a molding device comprising the steps of: opening the molding device and exposing the mold sections; staring a timer upon opening the molding device and exposing the mold sections to continuously measure exposure time of the mold sections; accelerating a robotic arm under control of the central supervisory processor along a curvilinear path from a waiting position to an opening in the molding device in synchronism with the opening of the molding device, in accordance with predetermined control parameters for a plurality of motors stored in a memory of the central supervisory processor to effectuate a curvilinear motion of the robotic arm between the waiting position and the opening of the molding device; and decelerating the robotic arm under control of the central supervisory processor when the robotic arm is approximately in the opening of the molding device, to provide a damping effect for allowing transfer of the mold sections from the molding machine to the robotic arm. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the control parameters for each of said plurality of motors include acceleration and deceleration parameters, and acceleration and deceleration time parameters. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the curvilinear path includes an optimal trajectory path of the robotic arm between the waiting position and the opening of the molding device, to position the robotic arm at the opening of the molding device to retrieve the exposed mold sections as the molding device opens. 6. The method of claim 3, the method further including: synchronizing with the step of opening of the molding device to begin the step of accelerating to enable positioning of the robotic arm at the opening of the molding device in an optimal amount of time. 7. The method of claim 3, further comprising identifying molded articles as unacceptable when the time measured by the timer exceeds a predetermined time. 