Method and apparatus for a fault tolerant automatic control system for a dynamic device having a sensor and a predetermined control algorithm include structure and steps for receiving a status signal from the sensor. Structure and steps are provided for transforming the sensor status signal and a predetermined reference signal into a linear time invariant coordinate system, generating a sensor estimate in the linear time invariant coordinate system based on the transformed sensor status signal and the transformed reference signal, transforming the sensor estimate into a physical coordinate system, detecting an error in the sensor status signal based on a comparison of the transformed sensor estimate and the sensor status signal, and reconfiguring the predetermined control algorithm based on the detected error. Preferably, the apparatus and method are implemented in an aircraft flight control system capable of detecting an aircraft sensor fault and reconfiguring the flight control program such that flight control surface actuators are commanded by ignoring or mitigating the failed sensor.
Claims I claim: 1. A fault tolerant automatic control system for a non-stationary device having a sensor which detects parameters which vary over time, comprising: a computer which transforms a mathematical model of the non-stationary device into a plurality of linear equations, said computer comparing a signal from the sensor with an expected value resulting from the plurality of linear equations to determine whether the sensor is functioning properly. 2. A fault tolerant automatic control system according to claim 1, wherein said computer reconfigures the mathematical model according to a functioning status of the sensor. 3. A fault tolerant automatic control system according to claim 1, wherein said computer defines a control algorithm according to the mathematical model of the non-stationary device. 4. A fault tolerant automatic control system according to claim 1, wherein said computer defines a control algorithm according to the plurality of linear equations. 5. A fault tolerant automatic control system according to claim 4, wherein said computer outputs an actuator adjustment signal according to the control algorithm. 6. A fault tolerant automatic control system according to claim 1, wherein said computer determines whether the sensor is functioning properly by using a failure detection filter. 7. A fault tolerant automatic control system according to claim 1, wherein said computer comprises an aircraft flight control computer. 8. An aircraft flight control computer for fault tolerant automatic control of an aircraft, comprising: a data processing apparatus, said data processing apparatus transforming a mathematical model of the aircraft into a plurality of linear equations, said data processing apparatus further comparing a signal from a sensor with an expected value resulting from the plurality of linear equations to determine whether the sensor is functioning properly. 9. An aircraft flight control computer according to claim 8, wherein said data processing apparatus reconfigures the mathematical model according to a functioning status of the sensor. 10. An aircraft flight control computer according to claim 8, wherein said data processing apparatus defines a control algorithm according to the mathematical model of the aircraft. 11. An aircraft flight control computer according to claim 8, wherein said data processing apparatus defines a control algorithm according to the plurality of linear equations. 12. An aircraft flight control computer according to claim 11, wherein said flight control computer outputs an actuator adjustment signal according to the control algorithm. 13. An aircraft flight control computer according to claim 8, wherein said data processing apparatus determines whether the sensor is functioning properly by using a failure detection filter. 14. A method for fault tolerant automatic control of a time-varying device, comprising the steps of: transforming a mathematical model of the time-varying device into a plurality of linear equations; and comparing a signal from a sensor with an expected value resulting from the plurality of linear equations to determine whether the sensor is functioning properly. 15. A method according to claim 14, further comprising the step of reconfiguring the mathematical model according to a functioning status of the sensor. 16. A method according to claim 14, further comprising the step of defining a control algorithm according to the mathematical model of the time-varying device. 17. A method according to claim 14, further comprising the step of defining a control algorithm according to the plurality of linear equations. 18. A method according to claim 17, further comprising the step of providing an actuator adjustment signal according to the control algorithm. 19. A method according to claim 14, further comprising the step of determining whether the sensor is functioning properly by using a failure detection filter. 20. A computer readable storage medium for storing code which causes one or more computers to control a dynamic device having a sensor which senses a time-varying parameter, the code causing the one or more computers to: transform a mathematical model of the dynamic device into a plurality of linear equations; and compare a signal from the sensor with an expected value resulting from the plurality of linear equations to determine whether the sensor is functioning properly. 21. A computer readable storage medium according to claim 20, further comprising code for causing the one or more computers to reconfigure the mathematical model according to a functioning status of the sensor. 22. A computer readable storage medium according to claim 20, further comprising code for causing the one or more computers to define a control algorithm according to the mathematical model of the dynamic device. 23. A computer readable storage medium according to claim 20, further comprising code for causing the one or more computers to define a control algorithm according to a plurality of stationary linear equations. 24. A computer readable storage medium according to claim 20, further comprising code for causing the one or more computers to output an actuator adjustment signal according to the control algorithm. 25. A computer readable storage medium according to claim 20, further comprising code for causing the one or more computers to determine whether the sensor is functioning properly by using a failure detection filter. 26. A process for detecting the failure of a sensor, comprising the steps of: (i) transforming a status signal from a sensor and a corresponding reference signal into a non-dynamic coordinate system; (ii) generating a sensor estimate in the non-dynamic coordinate system based on the transformed sensor status signal and the transformed reference signal; (iii) transforming the sensor estimate into a physical coordinate system; and (iv) detecting an error in the sensor based on a comparison of the transformed sensor estimate and the sensor status signal. 27. A process as defined in claim 26, further comprising the step of sensing a time-varying parameter with the sensor. 28. A system for detecting the failure of a time-varying sensor, comprising: a computer capable of (i) transforming a status signal from a sensor and a corresponding reference signal into a non-time-varrying coordinate system, (ii) generating a sensor estimate in the non-time-varying coordinate system based on the transformed sensor status signal and the transformed reference signal, (iii) transforming the sensor estimate into a physical coordinate system, and (iv) detecting an error in the sensor based on a comparison of the transformed sensor estimate and the sensor status signal. 