An aerosol can content analyzer workstation is disclosed which will make available the drug content of an aerosol can by a mechanical extraction process wherein the extraction is performed by isolating the bottom portion of the aerosol can in an extraction chamber. The aerosol can bottom is pierced by a metal punch after the aerosol can bottom is isolated. An extraction solvent is dispensed through spray holes in the metal punch in order to extract the contents from within the can. The extract is then collected in a collection flask and the extract is analyzed in order to determine the drug content.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A constituent extraction system for an aerosol can content analyzer workstation, comprising: (a) an extraction chamber for receiving an aerosol can therein, said aerosol can having an internal chamber containing a constituent; (b) a piercing element positioned within said extraction chamber for piercing said aerosol can when said can is at ambient temperature, said piercing element including at least one first spray nozzle for delivering an extraction medium within said aerosol can internal chamber to extract said constituent; (c) a collection receptacle in fluid communication with said extraction chamber for collecting said extraction medium and said constituent; and (d) at least one second spray nozzle disposed in said collection receptacle to deliver a rinsing fluid therein, said first and second spray nozzle being adapted to substantially simultaneously deliver said extraction medium and said rinsing fluid. 2. The extraction system according to claim 1, wherein said rinsing fluid comprises a solvent. 3. The extraction system according to claim 2, wherein said solvent comprises methanol. 4. The extraction system according to claim 1, wherein three second spray nozzles are disposed in said extraction chamber, said second nozzles being positioned in the bottom of said extraction chamber so as to direct said rinsing fluid generally upwardly into said extraction chamber. 5. The extraction system according to claim 1, wherein said extraction medium comprises a solvent. 6. The extraction system according to claim 5, wherein said solvent comprises methanol. 7. The extraction system according to claim 1, wherein said collection receptacle comprises a glass flask. 8. The extraction system according to claim 1, wherein said collection receptacle further includes at least one sampling port to withdraw a selected sample volume from said collection receptacle. 9. The extraction system according to claim 1, further including a valve fluidly connecting said extraction chamber and said collection receptacle. 10. The extraction system according to claim 9, wherein said valve comprises a proportional valve. 11. The extraction system according to claim 1, further including a liquid delivery system for delivering at least one selected rinsing fluid to said collection receptacle. 12. The extraction system according to claim 1, further including a volume detection mechanism disposed in said collection receptacle. 13. The extraction system according to claim 1, further including an agitator for mixing the contents of said collection receptacle. 14. The extraction system according to claim 1, further including a housing having an engagement mechanism for engaging an aerosol can placed therein. 15. The extraction system according to claim 14, wherein said engagement mechanism comprises a substantially U-shaped clip. 16. The extraction system according to claim 14, wherein said extraction chamber defines a can receiving aperture for receiving an aerosol can in a pressure sealed fashion and said housing is positioned on said content analyzer workstation such that a can held by said engagement mechanism can be received within said aperture when said housing and said extraction chamber are moved from a first position distanced from each other to a second position closer to each other. 17. The extraction system according to claim 16, wherein a resilient O-ring is mounted in said aperture of said extraction chamber. 18. The extraction system according to claim 16, wherein said housing is positioned above said extraction chamber and said engagement mechanism of said housing is aligned with said receiving aperture of said extraction chamber such that a can engaged in said engagement mechanism is received with said receiving aperture when said housing and said extraction chamber are brought to said second position. 19. The extraction system according to claim 18, further including an actuator and transducer in operative association with either said extraction chamber or said housing for motivating said extraction chamber and said housing from said first position to said second position. 20. The extraction system according to claim 19, wherein said actuator comprises a stepper motor with a worm and gear drive and said transducer comprises a linear transducer. 21. The extraction system according to claim 19, wherein said actuator and said transducer generate at least one signal to identify said relative positions of said housing and said extraction chamber. 22. The extraction system according to claim 1, wherein said piercing element comprises a cannula disposed proximate the bottom of said extraction chamber. 23. The extraction system according to claim 1, further including a first analyzer for evaluating the constituent contained in said aerosol can. 24. The extraction system according to claim 23, wherein said first analyzer includes means for determining the amount of drug content of said constituent by either UV or HPLC testing. 25. The extraction system according to claim 1, further including a robot for engaging and moving aerosol cans to be received by said extraction chamber. 26. The extraction system according to claim 1, further including a release valve in fluid communication with said extraction chamber for releasing the pressure therefrom in a controlled fashion. 27. The extraction system according to claim 1, further including a weighing mechanism for determining the weight of an aerosol can before and after piercing by said piercing element. 28. The extraction system according to claim 27, wherein said weighing mechanism comprises a analytical balance. 29. The extraction system according to claim 1, further including a computer for controlling the operation of said can content analyzer workstation in accordance with selected performance parameters and for collecting selected data during operation of said workstation. 30. The extraction system according to claim 29, wherein said computer comprises a personal computer. 31. An automated aerosol can content analyzer workstation comprising: (a) an extraction mechanism mounted on the workstation and comprising: (i) a housing having an engagement mechanism in the top thereof for releasably engaging an aerosol can; (ii) a vertically moveable extraction chamber with an aperture defined in the top thereof for sealingly receiving an aerosol can therein when the extraction chamber is moved upwardly from an inoperative mode beneath an aerosol can engaged by the housing engagement mechanism to an elevated operative mode, and a cannula fixedly mounted within the extraction chamber so as to rupture an aerosol can engaged by the housing engagement mechanism when the extraction chamber is moved upwardly from the inoperative mode to the elevated operative mode to allow the contents of a pierced aerosol can to be expelled from a ruptured can into the extraction chamber of the extraction mechanism and to then deliver a rinsing fluid through the cannula into an aerosol can; (iii) one or more spray nozzles in fluid communication with the extraction chamber for rinsing the inside of the extraction chamber of the extraction mechanism with rinsing fluid; (b) a collection receptacle in fluid connection with the extraction chamber for receiving fluid from the extraction chamber; (c) an analyzing mechanism for determining the aerosol content of an aerosol can from a sample taken from the collection receptacle; and (d) a computer for controlling the operation of the automated aerosol can content analyzer workstation in accordance with selected performance parameters and for collecting selected data during operation of the aerosol content workstation. 32. The automated aerosol can content analyzer workstation according to claim 31, wherein the engagement mechanism in the top of the extraction mechanism housing comprises a U-shaped clip. 33. The automated aerosol can content analyzer workstation according to claim 31, wherein a resilient O-ring is mounted in the aperture of the extraction chamber for sealingly engaging an aerosol can. 34. The automated aerosol can content analyzer workstation according to claim 31, wherein the cannula is mounted to the bottom of the extraction chamber and extends upwardly within the extraction chamber and terminates beneath the aperture in the top thereof. 35. The automated aerosol can content analyzer workstation according to claim 31, wherein the rinsing fluid delivered through the cannula is a solvent. 36. The automated aerosol can content analyzer workstation according to claim 31, wherein the one or more spray nozzles comprises 3 spray nozzles mounted in the bottom of the extraction chamber so as to direct a rinsing fluid generally upwardly into the extraction chamber. 37. The automated aerosol can content analyzer workstation according to claim 36, wherein the rinsing fluid comprises a solvent. 38. The automated aerosol can content analyzer workstation according to claim 31, including a robot for engaging and transporting an aerosol can to and from the aerosol content analyzer workstation. 39. The automated aerosol can content analyzer workstation according to claim 31, including a valve for allowing fluid within the extraction chamber to be drained therefrom. 40. The automated aerosol can content analyzer workstation according to claim 31, including an actuator and transducer in operative association with the extraction chamber for vertically motivating the extraction chamber from the inoperative mode to the operative mode and generating a signal corresponding to the relative position of the extraction chamber. 41. The automated aerosol can content analyzer workstation according to claim 31, including a weighing mechanism for determining the full and empty weight of an aerosol can from a sample taken from the collection receptacle. 42. A method for analyzing the drug content of an aerosol can comprising the steps of: (a) placing the aerosol can in an extraction chamber wherein said extraction chamber is at ambient temperature; and (b) rupturing the aerosol can so as to allow the pressurized contents of the aerosol can to expel into the extraction chamber and then analyzing the contents of the aerosol can. 43. The method for analyzing the drug content of an aerosol can according to claim 42, including collecting the contents of the can in a remote vessel. 44. The method for analyzing the drug content of an aerosol can according to claim 43, including analyzing the contents of the aerosol can by analyzing a portion of the contents collected in the remote vessel. 45. The method for analyzing the drug content of an aerosol can according to claim 42, including rinsing the inside of the aerosol can and extraction station with a solvent, collecting a solution of the solvent and the contents of the can in a remote vessel, and analyzing the solution collected in the remote vessel. 46. The method for analyzing the drug content of an aerosol can according to claim 42, including allowing the pressure of the extraction chamber to be released in a controlled manner, collecting the contents of the aerosol can in a remote vessel, and analyzing the contents collected in the remote vessel. 47. A method for analyzing the drug content of an aerosol can with an automated workstation, comprising the steps of: (a) entering selected performance parameters into a computer control operatively associated with the workstation; (b) robotically selecting a selected aerosol can from an input rack or the like and weighing the aerosol can and then delivering the aerosol can to an extraction mechanism of the workstation wherein the aerosol can is releasably engaged in a stationary position above a vertically moveable extraction chamber having an upwardly extending cannula therein; (c) rupturing the aerosol can by causing the vertically moveable extraction chamber to move from an inoperative mode beneath the aerosol can to an elevated operative mode wherein the aerosol can is sealingly engaged by the extraction chamber and ruptured by the cannula thereof so as to allow the pressurized contents of the aerosol can to expel into the extraction chamber; (d) allowing the pressurized contents of the extraction chamber to bleed through a proportional valve in fluid connection with the extraction chamber and to be delivered to a collection flask; (e) rinsing the inside of the aerosol can by pumping a solvent through the cannula within the aerosol can and allowing the solvent to collect in the extraction chamber and to then be delivered to the collection flask through the proportional valve; (f) spraying a solvent rinse into the inside of the extraction chamber with one or more spray nozzles in fluid communication therewith and then delivering the solvent to the collection flask through the proportioning valve; (g) robotically delivering the empty aerosol can to a scale to determine the empty aerosol can weight and returning the empty aerosol can to the input rack or other selected collection site; and (h) analyzing a portion of the extraction solution to determine the aerosol content of the aerosol can. 48. The method for analyzing the drug content of an aerosol can according to claim 47, including pumping air through the cannula in addition to the solvent to rinse the inside of the aerosol can. 49. The method for analyzing the content of an aerosol can according to claim 47, including sensing the relative vertical position of the extraction chamber during movement thereof and generating a corresponding signal to the computer control of the workstation. 50. The method for analyzing the content of an aerosol can according to claim 49, including sensing the relative vertical position of the extraction chamber with a linear transducer operatively associated with the extraction chamber. 