A system for facilitating transfer of a semiconductor wafer into or out of a wafer carrier of a polishing or lapping machine without contacting a face of the wafer. The system includes a wafer transport suitable for placement above the carrier, the transport having at least one open cavity with a size and shape suitable for registering alignment with an opening of the carrier. The cavity and opening together form a compartment adapted to receive and hold the wafer. A liquid delivery conduit having an outlet located above an abrading member of the machine is arranged to deliver a liquid to a position generally beneath the transport. A method for transferring the wafer to or from the machine includes delivering liquid beneath the wafer. The wafer thereby moves between a first position resting on the abrading member and a second position spaced above the abrading member where a tool may engage the edge of the wafer for holding the wafer without contacting the face of the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for facilitating transfer of a semiconductor wafer into or out of a machine for removing material from said wafer, the machine having a wafer carrier for holding said wafer and for guiding motion of the wafer relative to an underlying abrading member while a face of the wafer engages said abrading member, the wafer carrier including at least one opening for receiving the wafer, the opening having an outer rim that generally circumscribes a peripheral edge margin of the wafer, the system comprising: a wafer transport suitable for placement above said wafer carrier of the machine, the transport having a top surface, a bottom surface, and at least one open cavity therethrough with an internal edge wall, the cavity having a size and shape suitable for registering alignment with said at least one opening of the wafer carrier when the edge wall of the cavity is positioned above the outer rim of the opening and the bottom surface rests on the wafer carrier, the cavity and opening together forming a compartment having an open top wherein the edge wall and outer rim define a bounded perimeter, the compartment being adapted to receive and hold the wafer, and a liquid delivery conduit associated with the wafer transport to deliver liquid to a position generally beneath said transport for moving the wafer between a first position resting on the abrading member and a second position in the cavity, the liquid delivery conduit having an outlet located above said abrading member when the wafer transport is positioned above the carrier in the machine. 2. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said outlet of the liquid delivery conduit is positioned at the bottom surface of the wafer transport. 3. A system as set forth in claim 2 wherein said liquid delivery conduit extends through the wafer transport from the top surface to the bottom surface. 4. A system as set forth in claim 2 wherein said outlet of the liquid delivery conduit is positioned to deliver liquid to said abrading member at a location outside of said compartment. 5. A system as set forth in claim 4 wherein said outlet is located at a center of the transport. 6. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said cavity of the wafer transport has substantially the same size and shape as said opening in the wafer carrier. 7. A system as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a secondary outlet from said liquid delivery conduit, said secondary outlet positioned above said upper surface of the transport for delivering liquid onto a top face of the wafer when placed in the transport so as to increase weight and press the wafer downwardly to said first position against said abrading member. 8. A system as set forth in claim 1 further comprising at least one access slot in the top surface of the wafer transport for providing access to the peripheral edge margin of the wafer, said at least one access slot extending outwardly from the edge wall of the cavity and having a depth extending from said top surface down to or below a position corresponding with the second position of the wafer such that when the wafer is at the second position, the peripheral edge margin of the wafer faces the access slot and is thereby accessible through the slot for engaging the edge margin to hold the wafer in the cavity without contacting a face of the wafer. 9. A system as set forth in claim 8 wherein there are three access slots in the top surface of the wafer transport. 10. A system as set forth in claim 1 further comprising an overflow channel in the wafer transport for limiting a quantity of liquid within the compartment, the overflow channel extending from an inlet on the edge wall of said cavity to an outlet located outside of said cavity, the inlet being positioned on the edge wall so that when the wafer transport is placed above the wafer carrier and liquid is delivered into said compartment, any liquid in the compartment above the inlet flows out of the compartment through the overflow channel thereby limiting a maximum elevation of liquid that may accumulate in the compartment to an elevation of the inlet. 11. A system as set forth in claim 10 wherein the inlet of the overflow channel is positioned at an elevation corresponding to said second position of the wafer. 12. A system as set forth in claim 1 further comprising an alignment member on the wafer transport for positioning the wafer transport relative to the wafer carrier so that the cavity of the wafer transport is in registering alignment with the opening of the wafer carrier. 13. A system as set forth in claim 12 wherein said alignment member comprises a protuberance positioned along an outer rim of the wafer transport, the protuberance having a shape and size corresponding to a bore of the wafer carrier for aligning reception in the bore. 14. A system as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a moveable wafer support mounted in the wafer transport, the wafer support being located on the edge wall of the cavity below a position corresponding to the second position of the wafer such that when the wafer is at the second position, the peripheral edge margin of the wafer is higher than the wafer support, the wafer support being moveable between a stowed position wherein the wafer support is outside of the compartment and the wafer is free to move and a deployed position wherein the wafer support protrudes from the edge wall into the compartment and the wafer is prevented from moving below the wafer support, the wafer support configured to engage the edge of the wafer to support the wafer for removal of the wafer from said machine without contacting a face of the wafer. 15. A system as set forth in claim 14 wherein there are at least three wafer supports circumferentially spaced about the edge wall of the cavity. 16. A system as set forth in claim 14 further comprising a sensor for detecting whether the wafer is at the second position and thereby indicating readiness for moving the wafer support from the stowed position to the deployed position. 17. A system as set forth in claim 14 further comprising a support arm attached to the wafer transport for moving the wafer transport into or out of position above the wafer carrier. 18. A system as set forth in claim 1 in combination with the material removal machine. 19. A method for transferring a semiconductor wafer to or from a machine used to remove material from said wafer, the machine having a wafer carrier for holding said wafer and for guiding motion of the wafer relative to an underlying abrading member while a face of the wafer engages said abrading member, the wafer carrier including at least one opening receiving the wafer, the opening having an outer rim that generally circumscribes a peripheral edge margin of the wafer, the method comprising the steps of: placing a wafer transport over the wafer carrier in aligned registration wherein an open cavity of the wafer transport is positioned above said opening and an edge wall of the cavity is above said outer rim of the opening, the wafer transport and wafer carrier together forming a compartment for containing the wafer; and delivering a liquid through a passage having an outlet located above said abrading member thereby moving the wafer in the compartment between a first position resting on said abrading member and a second position spaced above said abrading member. 20. A method as set forth in claim 19 further comprising the step of engaging the edge of the wafer with a support tool for holding the wafer in the wafer transport without contacting a face of the wafer. 21. A method as set forth in claim 20 wherein the step of engaging the edge of the wafer with a support tool comprises placing extremities of a manual gripping tool through access slots on the wafer transport from where the edge of the wafer is accessible, engaging the extremities against the wafer edge, and lifting the gripping tool with the wafer held by its edge. 22. A method as set forth in claim 20 wherein the step of engaging the edge of the wafer with a support tool further comprises deploying a moveable wafer support from the edge wall of the cavity, the wafer support being positioned beneath the edge of the wafer when the wafer is at the second position and being adapted to support the wafer by the edge for removal from the machine. 23. A method as set forth in claim 22 further comprising a step, before the step of engaging the edge of the wafer, of monitoring whether a height of the wafer in the compartment has reached an elevation of said second position. 24. A method as set forth in claim 22 further comprising a step of lifting the wafer transport from the wafer carrier for removal of wafers therefrom. 25. A method as set forth in claim 19 further comprising a step of limiting a quantity of liquid in said compartment. 26. A method as set forth in claim 19 further comprising steps, prior to said step of placing the wafer transport over the wafer carrier, of: placing the wafer transport adjacent to a wafer loading station at a position suitable for transferring a wafer therebetween; and transferring the wafer from the loading station to the cavity of the transport. 27. A method as set forth in claim 26 wherein said step of delivering liquid through a passage comprises moving the wafer from the second position in the cavity of the wafer transport downwardly to the first position in contact with the abrading member by lowering the level of liquid under the wafer, and wherein the method further comprises the steps of: operating the machine to thereby polish or lap the wafer; returning the transport to said aligned registration position over the wafer carrier; delivering a liquid to a position beneath the wafer so that the wafer is moved upwardly by action of the liquid from a first position resting on said abrading member to a second position spaced above said abrading member; placing a support beneath the wafer to hold the wafer at said second position in the transport; moving the transport to an unloading station; and transferring the wafer from the transport to the unloading station. 28. A method as set forth in claim 27 wherein the step of delivering liquid through a passage includes delivering liquid to an upper face of the wafer whereby weight of the liquid presses the wafer downwardly so that a lower face of the wafer engages the abrading member. 29. A method as set forth in claim 26 wherein three wafers are simultaneously moved on the transport. 