An implantable medical device comprising a housing, a capacitor, an electronics module and a substantially flat battery. The capacitor is disposed within the housing. The electronics module is electrically connected to the capacitor and similarly disposed within the housing. The electronics module generally defines opposing front and rear faces, and is positioned such that the rear face is adjacent a wall of the housing. Finally, the battery is electrically connected to the electronics module and is positioned over the electronics module such that the battery is adjacent the front face of the electronics module. With this configuration, an overall shape and size of the implantable medical device is optimized.
Claims We claim: 1. An implantable medical device, comprising: a housing; a capacitor disposed within the housing; an electronics module electrically connected to the capacitor and disposed within the housing, the electronics module generally defining opposing front and rear faces, and positioned such that the rear face is adjacent a wall of the housing; and a substantially flat battery electrically connected to the electronics module, the battery being positioned over the electronics module such that the battery is adjacent the front face; wherein a length and width of the battery corresponds with a length and width of the electronics module. 2. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the battery is configured to have a shape factor corresponding with a shape factor of the electronics module. 3. The implantable medical device of claim 2, wherein the battery defines opposing major surfaces, one of the opposing major surfaces being positioned adjacent the electronics module, and further wherein outer dimensions of the opposing major surfaces approximate outer dimensions of the electronics module. 4. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the electronics module and the battery combine to define a height approximating a height of the capacitor. 5. The implantable medical device of claim 4, wherein the housing defines an internal height and further wherein the combined height of the electronics module and the battery approximates the internal height. 6. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the battery has a thickness of less than 0.30 inch. 7. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the housing defines an internal, transverse area, and further wherein the capacitor occupies a portion of the traverse area and the electronics module substantially occupies a remaining portion of the traverse area. 8. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the electronics module includes a circuit board, a plurality of electrical components connected to the circuit board and a frame extending about at least a portion of the perimeter of the circuit board, the frame being configured to maintain the battery such that the battery is isolated from the electrical components. 9. The implantable medical device of claim 8, wherein the battery defines a length and width approximating a length and width of the frame. 10. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the battery includes a major surface positioned adjacent the electronics module, the implantable medical device further comprising: an insulator applied across a substantial portion of the major surface, the insulator configured to electrically isolate the battery from the electronics module. 11. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the battery defines a major surface positioned adjacent the electronics module, the device further comprising: a retainer coupled to the battery at the major surface, the retainer configured to limit swelling of the major surface during use. 12. The implantable medical device of claim 11, wherein the retainer defines a size and shape approximating a size and shape of the major surface of the battery. 13. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the implantable medical device is selected from the group consisting of a PCD, an AID, an ICD, a defibrillator, an implantable pulse generator and a pacemaker. 14. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the battery is selected from the group consisting of a spirally wound electrochemical cell, an electrochemical cell having a plurality of plate-shaped electrodes, and an electrochemical cell having at least one serpentine electrode disposed therewithin. 15. An implantable medical device, comprising: a housing including opposing first and second shield walls; a capacitor disposed within the housing; an electronics module electrically connected to the capacitor and disposed within the housing adjacent the first shield wall; and a substantially fiat battery electrically connected to the electronics module, the battery being positioned between the electronics module and the second shield wall; wherein a length and width of the battery corresponds with a length and width of the electronics module. 16. The implantable medical device of claim 15, wherein the battery is configured to have a shape factor corresponding with a shape factor of the electronics module. 17. The implantable medical device of claim 16, wherein the battery defines opposing major surfaces, one of the opposing major surfaces being positioned adjacent the electronics module, and further wherein outer dimensions of the opposing major surfaces approximate outer dimensions of the electronics module. 18. The implantable medical device of claim 15, wherein the electronics module and the battery combine to define a height approximating a height of the capacitor. 19. The implantable medical device of claim 18, wherein the housing defines an internal height, and further wherein the combined height of the electronics module and the battery approximates the internal height. 20. The implantable medical device of claim 15, wherein the battery has a thickness of less than 0.30 inch. 21. The implantable medical device of claim 15, wherein the housing defines an internal, transverse area, and further wherein the capacitor occupies a portion of the traverse area and the electronics module substantially occupies a remaining portion of the traverse area. 22. The implantable medical device of claim 15, wherein the electronics module includes a circuit board, a plurality of electrical components connected to the circuit board and a frame extending about at least a portion of the perimeter of the circuit board, the frame being configured to maintain the battery such that the battery is isolated from the electrical components. 23. The implantable medical device of claim 15, wherein the battery includes a major surface positioned adjacent the electronics module, the implantable medical device further comprising: an insulator applied across a substantial portion of the major surface, the insulator configured to electrically isolate the battery from the electronics module. 24. The implantable medical device of claim 15, wherein the battery defines a major surface positioned adjacent the electronics module, the device further comprising: a retainer coupled to the battery at the major surface, the retainer configured to limit swelling of the major surface during use. 25. The implantable medical device of claim 15, wherein the implantable medical device is selected from the group consisting of a PCD, an AID, and ICD, a defibrillator, an implantable pulse generator and a pacemaker. 26. The implantable medical device of claim 15, wherein the battery is selected from the group consisting of a spirally wound electrochemical cell, an electrochemical cell having a plurality of plate-shaped electrodes, and an electrochemical cell having at least one serpentine electrode disposed therewithin. 27. A method of manufacturing an implantable medical device, the method comprising: providing a housing including opposing first and second shield walls; securing a capacitor to the first shield wall; securing an electronics module to the first shield wall; providing a power source comprising a substantially flat battery; placing the battery over the electronics module; electrically connecting the battery to the electronics module; and coupling the second shield wall to the first shield wall such that the battery is disposed within the housing between the electronics module and the second shield wall. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein providing a power source includes: determining a size of the electronics module; and forming the battery to have a size corresponding with the size of the electronics module. 29. The method of claim 27, wherein providing a power source includes: determining a shape of the electronics module; and forming the battery to have a shape corresponding with the shape of the electronics module. 30. The method of claim 27, wherein providing a power source includes: determining a thickness of the capacitor; determining a thickness of the electronics module; and forming the battery to have a thickness that combined with the thickness of the electronics module approximates the thickness of the capacitor. 31. The method of claim 27, wherein the battery defines opposing first and second major surfaces, the first major surface being positionable adjacent the electronics module, the method further comprising: applying an insulator material over a substantial portion of the first major surface to electrically isolate the battery from the electronics module. 32. The method of claim 27, wherein the battery defines opposing first and second major surfaces, the first major surface being positionable adjacent the electronics module, the method further comprising: securing a retainer to the first major surface to limit swelling of the first major surface toward the electronics module. 