Apparatus and method to facilitate the insertion, alignment, and bending of metal sheets in a press brake machine is described herein. Automated insertion of properly aligned sheets into a bending machine can be accomplished using a press brake that includes at least two press brake fingers that act independently with respect to one another to determine whether the sheet has been received by the respective finger. The fingers are electrically coupled (via the sheet itself, for example) to a processor that communicates with a robot. As the robot inserts the metal sheet into the press brake, it adjusts the alignment of the sheet until the sheet contacts the back planes of both press brake fingers. An electrical connection is formed when the metal sheet is received by the fingers (which are maintained at a nominal potential of 24V). When electrical connections are formed with both fingers, the processor tells the robot that the sheet is aligned and bending of the sheet can begin. Thus, each finger acts as a sensing device to determine whether the sheet is completely inserted and properly aligned in the press brake.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for aligning a sheet with a bending machine, said apparatus comprising: a support member comprising an electrically insulated support having a top surface and an electrically conductive back plane; and an insulator shield for mechanically protecting the electrically insulated support, the insulator shield disposed on said top surface of said electrically insulated support wherein said insulator shield is electrically isolated from said electrically insulated support and said conductive back plane. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an insulator between the insulator shield and the support member. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the insulator shield is fastened to said insulator. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said insulator shield is comprised of a metal. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said insulator shield is a dielectric. 6. An apparatus for bending a metal sheet, said apparatus comprising: a. an at least one die wherein the die supports the metal sheet from underneath and has an impression; b. an at least one tool wherein the tool has a protrusion that is of a shape and of a size to engage the impression; and c. an at least one pair of press brake fingers each finger comprising: a support member comprising an electrically insulated support having a top surface and an electrically conductive back plane, and an insulator shield for mechanically protecting the electrically insulated support, the insulator shield disposed on said top surface of said electrically insulated support wherein said insulator shield is electrically isolated from said electrically insulated support and said conductive back plane and wherein the tool engages the metal sheet, supported by the die and forms a bend in the sheet similar to the impression of the die. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the at least one pair of press brake fingers has an electrical potential. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the insulator shields are electrically isolated from the conductive back planes. 9. A method for bending a work piece, said method comprising the steps of: a. inserting a work piece into a press brake machine wherein the press brake machine comprises an at least one pair of fingers each finger comprising: a support member comprising an electrically insulated support having a top surface and an electrically conductive back plane, and an insulator shield for mechanically protecting the electrically insulated support, the insulator shield disposed on said top surface of said electrically insulated support wherein said insulator shield is electrically isolated from said electrically insulated support and said conductive back plane; b. aligning said work piece by manipulating the work piece to contact both conductive back planes of said pair of fingers; and c. bending the work piece within the press brake machine. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the conductive back planes are in electrical communication with the press brake machine. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein an electrical connection is formed when the work piece contacts both conductive back planes during the aligning step. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the bending step occurs after the aligning step is completed. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein inserting a work piece comprises: placing the work piece onto the insulator shields of the at least one pair of fingers. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein aligning comprises: receiving a signal that the work piece contacts one conductive backplane, but does not contact the other conductive backplane of one of the at least one pair of fingers; and adjusting the work piece, based upon which of the conductive backplanes is contacted by the work piece, until the work piece contacts both conductive backplanes. 