A pair of five-bar mechanisms having their pivotal axes parallel are each mounted at one end to a base and are interconnected at their other ends by a crankshaft to obtain a manipulator generating three degrees of freedom planar motion of an end-effector. Redundant actuation may be used to generate an unlimited rotation range and an extensible link in the crankshaft may be used to provide adjustable torque capabilities during operation.
Claims We claim: 1. A three degree of freedom manipulator comprising a base, a pair of off set substantially parallel rotary joints, a crankshaft mounted in said pair of rotary joints, said crankshaft having an interconnecting portion extending between said pair of rotary joints, a pair of joint moving means one to independently move each of said rotary joints in a plane perpendicular to the rotary axes of said joint, said pair of joint moving means each being mounted on said base and said joint moving means each having a drive means mounted on said base for independently and controllably driving each of said joint moving means to independently move each of said rotary joints and wherein each of said drive means comprises a pair of independently driven drivers. 2. A three of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said joint moving means comprises a five-bar linkage composed of a pair of proximal links, each said proximal link pivotally connected at one end to said base for pivotal movement on a first pivotal axis, all of said first pivotal axes for said pair of joint moving means being substantially parallel to each other, and a pair of distal links each of which is pivotally connected on a second pivotal axis to its link of said pair of proximal links, said second pivotal axes being spaced from and parallel to said first pivotal axes. 3. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 2 wherein said pair of distal links of one of said pair of joint moving means having one of said pair of rotary joints adjacent to their ends remote from said their second pivotal axis and said pair of distal links of the other of said pair of joint moving means having the other of said pair of rotary joints adjacent to their ends remote from their said second pivotal axis, axes of rotation of said pivotal joints and of said pair of rotary joints being substantially parallel. 4. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 2 wherein each of said independently driven drivers drives a different one of said proximal links of said pairs of joint moving means around its said first pivotal axis. 5. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 3 wherein each of said independently driven drivers drives a different one of said proximal links of said pairs of joint moving means around its said first pivotal axis. 6. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 2 wherein said three degree of freedom manipulator will further include an end effector, and said crankshaft will include an offsetting portion extending laterally beyond one of said pairs of rotary joints, said end effector being mounted on said offsetting portion. 7. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 3 wherein said three degree of freedom manipulator will further include an end effector, and said crankshaft will include an offsetting portion extending laterally beyond one of said pairs of rotary joints, said end effector being mounted on said offsetting portion. 8. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 4 wherein said three degree of freedom manipulator will further include an end effector, and said crankshaft will include an offsetting portion extending laterally beyond one of said pairs of rotary joints, said end effector being mounted on said offsetting portion. 9. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 5 wherein said three degree of freedom manipulator will further include an end effector, and said crankshaft will include an offsetting portion extending laterally beyond one of said pairs of rotary joints, said end effector being mounted on said offsetting portion. 10. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 1 wherein at least one of said independently driven drivers comprises prismatic actuator means for moving its said rotary joints. 11. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 10 wherein each of said pairs of independently driven drivers comprises a pair of interacting prismatic actuators. 12. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 10 wherein said three degree of freedom manipulator will further include an end effector, and said crankshaft will include an offsetting portion extending laterally beyond one of said pairs of rotary joints, said end effector being mounted on said offsetting portion. 13. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 11 wherein said three degree of freedom manipulator will further include an end effector, and said crankshaft will include an offsetting portion extending laterally beyond one of said pairs of rotary joints, said end effector being mounted on said offsetting portion. 14. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 1 wherein said three degree of freedom manipulator will further include an end effector, and said crankshaft will include an offsetting portion extending laterally beyond one of said pairs of rotary joints, said end effector being mounted on said offsetting portion. 15. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in any one of claims 1 to 14 wherein said interconnecting portion includes an extendable section, which may be changed in length, to change the spacing between said first and second rotational axes. 16. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 15 wherein said extensible section is formed by an axially extendable link. 17. A three degree of freedom manipulator as defined in claim 15 wherein said extensible section is formed by means of a pair of links interconnected by a further rotational joint permitting rotation about an axis of rotation parallel to said axes of rotation of said pivotal joints and of said pair of rotary joints. 