A method and apparatus for interfacing the motion of an object with a digital processing system includes a sensor for detecting movement of the object along a degree of freedom. A passive pneumatic or hydraulic damper is coupled to the object to provide a damping resistance to the object along the degree of freedom and resist a movement of the object. The damping resistance is provided by regulating the control of a fluid with a digital computing apparatus, thus providing a low-cost, low-power force-feedback interface that is safe for the user. The damper and sensor provide an electromechanical interface between the object and the electrical system. A gimbal or other interface mechanism can be coupled between the damper and the object. The interface is well suited for simulations or video games in which an object such as a joystick is moved and manipulated by the user.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A force feedback interface device for use with a host computer displaying a graphical environment, said force feedback interface device providing force feedback sensations to a user, said interface device comprising: a user manipulatable object contacted by a user and moveable in two linear degrees of freedom, said two linear degrees of freedom substantially defining a plane, said user manipulatable object including a recess for contacting a tip portion of at least one finger of said user or a tip portion of a stylus; at least one sensor in communication with said host computer and coupled to said user manipulatable object for sensing positions of said user manipulatable object along at least one of said degrees of freedom; and a first and a second actuator, each in communication with said host computer, said first actuator comprising a first linear member mechanically coupled to said user manipulatable object to apply a force to said object along a first linear degree of freedom, and said second actuator comprising a second linear member mechanically coupled to said user manipulatable object to apply a force to said object along a second linear degree of freedom, wherein said first linear member is a flexible member that flexes when said user manipulatable object is moved in said second degree of freedom, and wherein said second linear member is a flexible member that flexes when said user manipulatable object is moved in said first degree of freedom. 2.A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said recess comprises a finger-receiving portion including a divot for holding said tip portion of said at least one finger of said user. 3. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said recess is for contacting a tip portion of at least one finger of said user, and wherein said recess includes a surface that is substantially planar on which said tip portion of said at least one finger rests and wherein said surface includes a means for preventing said tip portion of said finger from slipping on said surface. 4. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 3 wherein said means for preventing said tip portion of said finger from slipping on said surface includes at least one bump. 5. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 4 wherein said means for preventing said tip portion of said finger from slipping on said surface includes a plurality of bumps and wherein said recess receives a plurality of fingers of said user. 6. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said actuators provide said force as a resistance to motion by changing the flow rate of a fluid. 7. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 6 wherein said fluid is an electrorheological fluid having a viscosity changed by applying an electric field to said fluid. 8. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 7 further comprising a local microprocessor separate from said host computer and coupled between said actuators and said host computer, said microprocessor controlling said electric field with at least one electrode and controlling said resistance on said user manipulatable object based on commands received from said host computer. 9. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 further comprising a local microprocessor separate from said host computer and coupled between said actuators and said host computer, said microprocessor controlling said force output by said actuators. 10. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said first and second linear members are substantially in said plane. 11. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said first and second linear members are substantially perpendicular. 12. An interface device for use with a host computer updating a graphical environment in response to user manipulation of said interface device, said host computer commanding said computer interface device to generate force feedback sensations in coordination with events within said graphical environment, said interface device comprising: a user object contacted by a user; a support mechanism which supports said user object while allowing a degree of freedom of motion of said object with respect to a grounding surface; an actuator for providing resistance to motion of said user object along said degree of freedom of said user object, said actuator including a grounded portion and a non-grounded portion, wherein said grounded portion of said actuator remains stationary with respect to said grounding surface, and wherein said resistance to motion is varied by said actuator in response to commands from said host computer; a slotted yoke mechanism provided between said actuator and said user object, said slotted yoke mechanism allowing an inherent amount of play between said user object and said non-grounded portion of said actuator; and a sensor system, said sensor system being grounded wherein a portion of said sensor system remains stationary with respect to said grounding surface, and wherein a different portion of said sensor system is coupled to said user object and moves with respect to said grounding surface when said user object moves along said degree of freedom, wherein no substantial play is allowed between said user object and said portion of said grounded sensor system coupled to said user object, said motion of said coupled sensor portion resulting in signals representing a position of said user object along said degree of freedom, and wherein said inherent amount of play is detectable within a sensing resolution of said sensor system. 13. An interface device as recited in claim 12 wherein said user object is moveable in a plurality of degrees of freedom, and wherein said slotted yoke mechanism includes a plurality of slotted yokes, each yoke provided for an associated degree of freedom, and wherein said user object includes a portion extending through a slot of each of said yokes. 14. An interface device as recited in claim 12 wherein one of said portions of said sensor system includes an emitter of electromagnetic energy and another of said portions of said sensor system includes a detector of said electromagnetic energy. 15. An interface device as recited in claim 12 further comprising a local microprocessor separate from said host computer, said local microprocessor electrically coupled to said actuator and to said sensor system such that said local microprocessor is operative to control said actuator and read said sensor, said local microprocessor coupled to said host computer by a communication interface and executing a local process in parallel with host execution of said graphical simulation. 16. An interface device as recited in claim 15 wherein said local microprocessor reads said sensor system locally to detect free motion of said user object within a play region defined by said play and adjust resistance applied by said actuator based on said motion in said play region. 17. An interface device as recited in claim 12 wherein said actuator includes a fluid that changes its viscous properties in response to an electromagnetic field. 18. A force feedback interface device for use with a host computer displaying a graphical environment, said force feedback interface device providing force feedback sensations to a user, said interface device comprising: a user manipulatable object contacted by a user and moveable in two linear degrees of freedom, said two linear degrees of freedom substantially defining a plane, said user manipulatable object including a recess for contacting a tip portion of at least one finger of said user or a tip portion of a stylus; at least one sensor in communication with said host computer and coupled to said user manipulatable object for sensing positions of said user manipulatable object along at least one of said degrees of freedom; and a first and a second actuator, each in communication with said host computer, said first actuator comprising a first linear member mechanically coupled to said user manipulatable object to apply a force to said object along a first linear degree of freedom, and said second actuator comprising a second linear member mechanically coupled to said user manipulatable object to apply a force to said object along a second linear degree of freedom, wherein said actuators provide said forces as a resistance to motion by changing the flow rate of an electrorheological fluid having a viscosity changed by applying an electric field to said fluid. 