Integrated systems, apparatus, software, and methods for performing biochemical analysis, including DNA sequencing, genomic screening, purification of nucleic acids and other biological components and drug screening are provided. Microfluidic devices, systems and methods for using these devices and systems for performing a wide variety of fluid operations are provided. The devices and systems of are used in performing fluid operations which require a large number of iterative, successive or parallel fluid manipulations, in a microscale, or sealed and readily automated format.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A non-electrophoretic method of separating material in a microfluidic device, the method comprising: flowing at least a first and a second material into contact in the microfluidic device; flowing the first material, the second material, or a reaction product resulting from contact of the first and second materials into a microchannel comprising at least one separation region comprising a chromatographic material, wherein the chromatographic material comprises a size-separation matrix, an affinity matrix, a gel-exclusion matrix, or a combination thereof, and whereby the first material, the second material, or the reaction product is separated from at least one other material in the separation region; and detecting a resulting separated product. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein flowing comprises manipulating the first or second material using one or more micropumps, microvalves, external pumps, switching valves, fluid gates, or a combination thereof. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first or second material comprises one or more members of one or more libraries of chemical or biological compounds or components. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first or second material comprises one or more of: a nucleic acid template, a sequencing reagent, a primer extension product, a PCR reaction product, or a combination thereof. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the sequencing reagent comprises one or more of: a polymerase, a thermostable polymerase, a nucleotide, a template, a primer, a buffer, or a combination thereof. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first or second material comprises one or more of an antibody, a cell receptor, an antigen, a receptor ligand, an enzyme, a substrate, an immunochemical, an immunoglobulin, a virus, a virus binding component, a protein, a cellular factor, a growth factor, an inhibitor, or a combination thereof. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction product comprises one or more of: a DNA sequence, a primer extension product, or a PCR reaction product. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction product comprises one or more of: a receptor-bound ligand, an antigen-antibody complex, or a modified substrate. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the resulting separated product comprises observing a calorimetric, fluorometric, or radioactive response, or a change in velocity of a calorimetric, fluorometric or radioactive component. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the resulting separated product comprises autoradiographic, microscopic, or spectroscopic detection. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein detecting the resulting separated product comprises performing fluorescence spectroscopy. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction product comprises a nucleic acid sequence and wherein detecting the resulting separated product further comprises determining a sequence of the reaction product. 13. A microfluidic device for non-electrophoretic separation of materials, comprising: a body structure comprising at least first and second intersecting microchannels; a chromatographic material deposited in or fluidically coupled to at least a first portion of at least one of the two microchannels, wherein the chromatographic material comprises a size-separation matrix, an affinity matrix, a gel-exclusion matrix, or a combination thereof; and a material transport system fluidically coupled to the first portion, wherein, during operation of the device, the material transport system forces fluid through the first portion. 14. The microfluidic device of claim 13, wherein the body structure further comprises a mixing zone fluidically coupled to the first and second microchannels. 15. The microfluidic device of claim 13, wherein the material transport system comprises a micropump, a microvalve, a fluid switch, a fluid gate, or a combinatportion thereof. 16. The microfluidic device of claim 13, further comprising: a detector operationally coupled to a second portion of at least one of the two intersecting microchannels, whereby, during operation of the system, at least one material leaves the first portion, enters the second portion, and is detected by the detector; and a controller or computer operationally coupled to one or more microchannels, the material transport system, the detector, or combinations thereof. 17. The microfluidic device of claim 16, wherein the detector comprises one or more of a spectrophotometer, a fluorometer, a photodiode, a photomultiplier tube, a microscope, a scintillation counter, a camera, a CCD camera, film, an optical detection system, a temperature sensor, a conductivity meter, a potentiometer, an amperometric meter, a pH meter, or a combination thereof. 18. The microfluidic device of claim 16, wherein the controller or computer comprises an instruction set for directing the operation of the material transport system. 19. The microfluidic device of claim 16, wherein the controller or computer comprises a control system for monitoring and controlling environmental effects on the microfluidic device. 20. The microfluidic device of claim 16, wherein the controller or computer comprises a control system for recording and analyzing data obtained from the microfluidic device or the detector. 21. The microfluidic device of claim 16, further comprising a storage element comprising one or more stored reagents. 22. The microfluidic device of claim 21, wherein the storage element comprises a set of reagents dried in an array on a solid surface. 