A system for manipulating a workpiece in an industrial robot system having a manipulator device for manipulating the workpiece, a tooling adapter coupled to the manipulator device for manipulating the workpiece, and an image referencing system for acquiring image data corresponding to the workpiece without interference from the manipulator device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for manipulating a workpiece adapted for subsequent use in an image forming system, comprising: a manipulator device for manipulating the workpiece, an image referencing system for acquiring image data corresponding to the workpiece, and a tooling adapter configured to include a viewing window positioned relative to the image referencing system, the viewing window allowing the image referencing system to acquire the image data corresponding to the workpiece when the tooling adapter is coupled to the manipulator device for manipulating the workpiece in selected engagement therewith. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising an air bearing assembly coupled to the manipulator device and the image referencing system, wherein at least one of the manipulator device and the image referencing system are adapted for translational movement along the air bearing assembly. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a base coupled to one or more support members, said support members supporting the air bearing assembly. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said image referencing system comprises an image acquisition element. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said image referencing system further comprises an optical lens coupled to the image acquisition element, and a prism optically coupled to the image acquisition element. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said image referencing system further comprises a quill disposed between said optical lens and said prism. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said tooling adapter further comprises a vacuum assembly for applying a force to a workpiece for manipulating the workpiece. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said tooling adapter comprises a vacuum assembly for applying a force to a workpiece for manipulating the workpiece, thereby enabling the manipulator device to selectively engage the workpiece. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said tooling adapter comprises a housing have a platen top surface adapted for coupling to the manipulator device, one or more walls coupled to the platen, and a bottom portion coupled to the wall. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the bottom portion comprises a vacuum assembly. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the vacuum assembly comprises a plurality of ports for applying a force to the workpiece when disposed in contact therewith. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the bottom portion further comprises a window for allowing the image referencing system to acquire the image data of the workpiece without interference from the manipulator device. 13. A method for manipulating a workpiece, comprising the steps of manipulating the workpiece with a manipulator device, coupling a tooling adapter having a workpiece viewing window to the manipulator device, and acquiring image data corresponding to the workpiece without interference from the manipulator device by imaging the workpiece through the workpiece viewing window of the tooling adapter. 14. A system for manipulating a workpiece adapted for subsequent use in an image forming system, comprising: a manipulator device for manipulating the workpiece, a tooling adapter having a vacuum assembly for applying a force to a workpiece for manipulating the workpiece, the tooling adapter configured for coupling to the manipulator device for manipulating the workpiece when disposed in selected engagement therewith, and an image referencing system disposed in optical communication with the tooling adapter for acquiring image data corresponding to the workpiece. 15. The system of claim 14, further comprising an air bearing assembly coupled to the manipulator device and the image referencing system, wherein at least one of the manipulator device and the image referencing system are adapted for translational movement along the air bearing assembly. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein said image referencing system comprises an image acquisition element. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein the vacuum assembly comprises a plurality of ports for applying a force to the workpiece when disposed in contact therewith. 