A system is provided for automatically dispensing prescriptions according to a patient's order. The system includes at least one line of machines that can automatically fill a patient's prescription order with countable oral solid medication under the control of an appropriate control system. The system includes containers provided to store the oral solid medication. One or more medication-containing containers are detachably coupled to a vibratory dispenser according to a patient's order. The vibratory dispenser automatically vibrates the container to dispense a predetermined amount of medication from the container into the vial according to the patient's order. Labeling and capping apparatus may be provided to apply a patient-specific label to the vial and to apply a cap or closure to the vial. Vials containing medication according to the patient's order may be collected in accumulation receptacles prior to delivery to a patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for automatically filling prescription orders for oral solid medication in accordance with patient-specific prescription information comprising: a controller for receiving the patient-specific prescription information and for controlling prescription filling apparatus for filling the prescription order; a plurality of oral solid medication containers for containing oral solid medication therein; at least one vibratory dispenser operatively controlled by the controller and including a coupling for attachment of an oral solid medication container in a detachable relationship, the dispenser providing vibration to a coupled container in response to the prescription information so that medication is dispensed from the container into a vial; at least one container transport assembly operatively controlled by the controller for automatic transport of an oral solid medication container between a container storage location and the vibratory dispenser in response to the prescription information; and a vial transport assembly operatively controlled by the controller for automatic transport of empty vials to the vibratory dispenser and filled vials to at least one predetermined location in response to the prescription information; whereby the filled prescription order is collected in the at least one predetermined location. 2. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 1 wherein the predetermined location is an accumulator and the filled vials according to a patient-specific prescription order are transported to the accumulator for collection. 3. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 1 further including a vial labeler positioned with respect to a vial for applying a label to the vial. 4. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 3 further including a vial capper positioned with respect to a filled vial for capping the vial. 5. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 1 wherein the oral solid medication containers are canisters comprising: a canister body having a bottom wall, at least one sidewall and inner and outer canister surfaces, at least one wall defining a discharge opening through which the oral solid medication is discharged from the canister and the at least one sidewall defining an opening through which medication is loaded into the canister; medication separation structure positioned with respect to the canister inner surface, the separation structure having a first end for receiving oral solid medication from the canister, a second end in communication with the discharge opening and a separation surface therebetween on which the medication is transported along the surface to the discharge opening; and a coupling mechanism attached to the canister for detachably coupling the canister to the vibratory dispenser. 6. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 5, wherein the separation surface is of a predetermined width so as to cause the medication to be arranged in a substantially single row. 7. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 5 further including: a frame positioned with respect to the container transport assembly; and a plurality of canister storage shelves along the frame, each shelf for storing at least one canister. 8. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one oral solid medication container is a canister and the coupling is a quick coupling mechanism attaching the canister to the vibratory dispenser and permitting rapid coupling and decoupling of the canister from the dispenser. 9. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 8, wherein the quick coupling mechanism comprises: a magnet attached to the vibratory dispenser; and a magnetically-attractive member attached to the canister; whereby, the canister is detachably coupled to the vibratory dispenser by the action of the magnet and the magnetically-attractive member. 10. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 1 wherein the vibratory dispenser includes: at least one drive unit for vibrating an oral solid medication container mounted thereon, a coupling mechanism attached to the vibratory dispenser for detachably coupling the oral solid medication container to the drive unit; and a sensor positioned in an oral solid medication dispensing path, the sensor registering a count when the dispensed oral solid medication passes the sensor. 11. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 10, wherein the coupling mechanism is a magnet secured with respect to the drive unit designed for mating with a magnetically-attractive member positioned on the oral solid medication container. 12. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 10 wherein the vibratory dispenser vibrates the oral solid medication container by varying an amplitude component of the vibration. 13. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 10 wherein the vibratory dispenser vibrates the oral solid medication container by varying a frequency component of the vibration. 14. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 10 further including: a comparator for comparing the amount of dispensed medication to the amount of medication to be dispensed including a comparison at a vial filling cycle end period; and if the comparison at the vial filling cycle end period shows that less than all of the medication has been dispensed, the controller causes the vibratory dispenser to provide at least one vibratory pulse to dispense any remaining medication from the oral solid medication container. 15. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 10 wherein the container transport assembly comprises: a drive mechanism for positioning the assembly to grip an oral solid medication container; and a gripper assembly coupled to the drive mechanism for gripping an oral solid medication container. 16. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 15 wherein the drive mechanism comprises: a plurality of guides arranged in an orthogonal coordinate system; and a motor for moving the assembly along the guides. 17. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 16 wherein the gripper assembly comprises: at least two generally opposed fingers moveable between an open, release position and a closed, gripping position; a rotatable cam operatively connected to the fingers for opening and closing the fingers; and at least one limit switch for sensing whether the fingers are in the opened or closed positions. 18. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 17 further including a motor for rotating the cam. 19. The prescription filling apparatus of claim 1 wherein the vial transport assembly is the container transport assembly. 