A method is provided of determining waveform stability of a pulse echo layer transducer (PELT) used for measuring paint film thickness of painted bodies. The method includes the steps of reading a signal with the PELT transducer with respect to a desired location of the vehicle. The method also includes the steps of determining whether a maximum absolute value of the read signal is greater than a noise threshold (.phi.) and computing a measure (.rho.) based on an option (k). The method includes the steps of determining whether the computed measure (.rho.) is above or below a predetermined threshold (T) based on the option (k), and concluding a stable/unstable signal from the PELT transducer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining waveform stability of a pulse echo layer thickness (PELT) transducer used for measuring paint film thickness of painted bodies, said method comprising the steps of: reading a signal with the PELT transducer with respect to a desired location of the painted bodies; determining whether a maximum absolute value of the read signal is greater than a noise threshold (.phi.); computing a measure based on an option; determining whether the computed measure is above or below a predetermined threshold (T) based on the option; and concluding either a stable signal or an unstable signal from the PELT transducer. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 including the step of reading in a predetermined threshold T(k). 3. A method as set forth in claim 1 including the step of reading in options (k=1,2). 4. A method as set forth in claim 1 including the step of reading in a noise threshold (.phi.). 5. A method as set forth in claim 1 including the step of reading in a number of stable waveforms required before stable result (.tau.). 6. A method as set forth in claim 1 including the step of reading in a maximum number of signals sampled (.alpha.). 7. A method as set forth in claim 1 including the step of determining whether a flag has been set if the maximum absolute value of the read signal is greater than the noise threshold (.phi.). 8. A method as set forth in claim 7 including the step of generating an interrupt to sample a new signal if the flag has not been set. 9. A method as set forth in claim 8 including the step of transferring the read signal to a buffer. 10. A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein said step of computing comprises computing the measure based on an error option or based on a correlation option if the flag has not been set. 11. A method as set forth in claim 10 wherein said step of determining comprises determining whether the computed measure (.rho.) is less than a predetermined threshold (T) if the computed measure (.rho.) is based on the error option (k=1) and greater than a predetermined threshold (T) if the computed measure (.rho.) is based on the correlation option (k=2). 12. A method as set forth in claim 11 including the step of incrementing a count if the computed measure is less than the predetermined threshold (T) based on the error option or above the predetermined threshold (T) based on the correlation option. 13. A method for determining waveform stability of a pulse echo layer thickness (PELT) transducer used for measuring paint film thickness of painted bodies, said method comprising the steps of: reading a signal with the PELT transducer with respect to a desired location of the painted bodies; determining whether a maximum absolute value of the read signal is greater than a noise threshold; determining whether a flag has been set if the maximum absolute value of the read signal is greater than the noise threshold; computing a measure based on an error option or based on a correlation option if the flag has not been set; determining whether the computed measure is less than a predetermined threshold if the computed measure is based on the error option and greater than a predetermined threshold if the computed measure is based on the correlation option; incrementing a count if the computed measure is less than the predetermined threshold based on the error option or above the predetermined threshold based on the correlation option; determining whether the waveform number is greater than a predetermined number of stable waveforms required before a stable result; and concluding either a stable signal or an unstable signal from the PELT transducer. 14. A method as set forth in claim 13 wherein said step of concluding comprises concluding a stable signal if the waveform number is equal to the predetermined number of stable waveforms required before a stable result (.tau.). 15. A method as set forth in claim 13 including the step of determining whether the read signal is equal to a maximum number of signals sampled (.alpha.). 16. A method as set forth in claim 15 including the step of indicating an error if the read signal is equal to the maximum number of signals sampled (.alpha.). 17. A method as set forth in claim 15 including the step of reading a new signal if the read signal is not equal to the maximum number of signals sampled (.alpha.). 18. A method as set forth in claim 12 including the step of discarding any buffered signal if the flag has been set. 19. A method for determining waveform stability of a pulse echo layer transducer (PELT) used for measuring paint film thickness of painted bodies, said method comprising the steps of: reading a signal with the PELT transducer with respect to a desired location of the painted bodies; determining whether a maximum absolute value of the read signal is greater than a noise threshold; computing a measure based on an option; determining whether the computed measure is less than a predetermined threshold if the measure is computed based on the error option and greater than a predetermined threshold if the measure is computed based on the correlation option; incrementing a count if the computed measure is less than the predetermined threshold based on the error option or above the predetermined threshold based on the correlation option; determining whether the waveform number is greater than a predetermined number of stable waveforms required before a stable result; and concluding a stable signal from the PELT transducer if the waveform number is equal to the predetermined number of stable waveforms required and generating a trigger to capture the stable signal. 