A system and method which provide a gripping mechanism and a complementary "handle," which enable a microcomponent to be grasped with the gripping mechanism are disclosed. A preferred embodiment provides a gripper and a complementary handle, which is implemented on a microcomponent to be grasped, to enable the gripper to effectively grasp the microcomponent by grasping the complementary handle implemented for such component. A preferred embodiment provides a gripper and a complementary handle that is implemented on a microcomponent to enable the microcomponent to be accurately picked-and-placed with the gripper. The complementary handle may be an integrated part of the microcomponent to be grasped, or the handle may be a separate component that is capable of being permanently or temporarily coupled to a microcomponent. Most preferably, the gripper and complementary handle may be implemented to constrain all six degrees of freedom, both translational and rotational, of a grasped handle relative to the gripper.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of grasping a microcomponent, said method comprising the steps of: providing a handle on a microcomponent, wherein said handle is complementary to at least a portion of a gripper device to aid said gripper device in achieving a desirable grasp of said handle; and obtaining a grasp of said microcomponent with said gripper device by grasping said handle with said gripper device. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: at least two arms of said gripper device engaging said handle. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said handle includes at least one aperture for receiving said at least two arms of said gripper device. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: a notch on each of said at least two arms engaging said handle. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said notch on each of said at least two arms aids in aligning said gripper device with said handle. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein said handle includes at least one notch for receiving said notch on each of said at least two arms. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said notch included on said handle aids in aligning said gripper device with said handle. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said handle includes at least one aperture for receiving at least a portion of said gripper device. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: at least one notch included in said handle being engaged by said gripper device. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said at least one notch included in said handle aids in aligning said gripper device with said handle. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: at least one clip of said gripper device engaging said handle. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said at least one clip is springably coupled to said gripper device. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said at least one clip is springably coupled to at least one arm of said gripper device. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: pinching a portion of said handle between said at least one clip and a base member of said gripper device. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: said gripper device grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said handle relative to said gripper device. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: said gripper device grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper device. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: said gripper device grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of rotational freedom of said handle relative to said gripper device. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: said gripper device grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of rotational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper device. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: said gripper device grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom and three degrees of rotational freedom of said handle relative to said gripper device. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: said gripper device grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom and three degrees of rotational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper device. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein said handle is no larger than said microcomponent. 22. The method of claim 1 wherein said gripper device is a micro-gripper device. 23. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of obtaining a grasp of said microcomponent comprises: said gripper device engaging said handle in a manner that minimizes the amount of surface contact between said gripper device and said handle. 24. A system for grasping a microcomponent, said system comprising: a handle on said microcomponent, wherein said handle is designed to be complementary to at least a portion of a gripper device to aid said gripper device in achieving a grasp of said handle. 25. The system of claim 24 wherein said handle is an integrated part of said microcomponent. 26. The system of claim 24 wherein said handle is a separate part coupled to said microcomponent. 27. The system of claim 24 wherein said gripper device further includes: at least two arms for engaging said handle. 28. The system of claim 27 wherein said handle includes at least one aperture for receiving said at least two arms of said gripper device. 29. The system of claim 27 wherein said at least two arms each include: a notch for engaging said handle. 30. The system of claim 29 wherein said notch on each of said at least two arms aids in aligning said gripper device with said handle. 31. The system of claim 29 wherein said handle includes at least one notch for receiving said notch on each of said at least two arms. 32. The system of claim 31 wherein said notch included on said handle aids in aligning said gripper device with said handle. 33. The system of claim 24 wherein said handle includes at least one aperture for receiving at least a portion of said gripper device. 34. The system of claim 24 wherein said handle further includes: at least one notch arranged for being engaged by said gripper device. 35. The system of claim 34 wherein said at least one notch included in said handle aids in aligning said gripper device with said handle. 36. The system of claim 24 wherein said gripper device further includes: at least one clip for engaging said handle. 37. The system of claim 36 wherein said at least one clip is springably coupled to said gripper device. 38. The system of claim 37 wherein said at least one clip is springably coupled to at least one arm of said gripper device. 39. The system of claim 36 wherein said clip is arranged in said gripper device to pinch a portion of said handle between said at least one clip and a base member of said gripper device when said gripper device engages said handle. 40. The system of claim 36 wherein said handle further includes at least one clip arranged to engage said gripper device. 41. The system of claim 40 wherein said at least one clip of said handle is springably coupled to said handle. 42. The system of claim 40 wherein said at least one clip of said handle is arranged in said handle to pinch a portion of said gripper device between said at least one clip of said handle and another portion of said handle when said gripper device engages said handle. 43. The system of claim 24 wherein said handle further includes at least one clip arranged to engage said gripper device. 44. The system of claim 43 wherein said at least one clip of said handle is springably coupled to said handle. 45. The system of claim 43 wherein said at least one clip of said handle is arranged in said handle to pinch a portion of said gripper device between said at least one clip of said handle and another portion of said handle when said gripper device engages said handle. 46. The system of claim 24 wherein said gripper device is capable of grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said handle relative to said gripper device. 47. The system of claim 46 wherein said gripper device is capable of grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper device. 48. The system of claim 24 wherein said gripper device is capable of grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of rotational freedom of said handle relative to said gripper device. 49. The system of claim 48 wherein said gripper device is capable of grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of rotational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper device. 50. The system of claim 24 wherein said gripper device is capable of grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom and three degrees of rotational freedom of said handle relative to said gripper device. 51. The system of claim 50 wherein said gripper device is capable of grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom and three degrees of rotational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper device. 52. The system of claim 24 wherein said handle is no larger than said microcomponent. 53. A gripper and complementary handle for grasping a microcomponent; said gripper including a mechanism for engaging said complementary handle; and said complementary handle implemented on said microcomponent and said complementary handle including a complementary receptacle for said gripper to engage to achieve a grasp of said microcomponent. 54. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 53 wherein said complementary handle is an integrated part of said microcomponent. 55. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 53 wherein said complementary handle is a separate part coupled to said microcomponent. 56. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 53 wherein said gripper further includes: at least two arms for engaging said complementary handle. 57. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 56 wherein said complementary handle includes at least one aperture for receiving said at least two arms of said gripper device. 58. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 56 wherein said at least two arms each include: a notch for engaging said complementary handle. 59. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 58 wherein said notch on each of said at least two arms aids in aligning said gripper with said complementary handle. 60. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 58 wherein said complementary handle includes at least one notch for receiving said notch on each of said at least two arms. 61. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 60 wherein said notch included on said complementary handle aids in aligning said gripper with said complementary handle. 62. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 53 wherein said complementary handle includes at least one aperture for receiving at least a portion of said gripper. 63. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 53 wherein said complementary handle further includes: at least one notch arranged for being engaged by said gripper. 64. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 63 wherein said at least one notch included in said complementary handle aids in aligning said gripper with said complementary handle. 65. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 53 wherein said gripper further includes: at least one clip for engaging said complementary handle. 66. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 65 wherein said at least one clip is springably coupled to said gripper. 67. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 66 wherein said at least one clip is springably coupled to at least one arm of said gripper. 68. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 65 wherein said clip is arranged in said gripper to pinch a portion of said complementary handle between said at least one clip and a base member of said gripper when said gripper engages said complementary handle. 69. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 65 wherein said complementary handle further includes at least one clip arranged to engage said gripper. 70. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 69 wherein said at least one clip of said complementary handle is springably coupled to said complementary handle. 71. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 69 wherein said at least one clip of said complementary handle is arranged in said complementary handle to pinch a portion of said gripper between said at least one clip of said complementary handle and another portion of said complementary handle when said gripper engages said complementary handle. 72. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 53 wherein said complementary handle further includes at least one clip arranged to engage said gripper. 73. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 72 wherein said at least one clip of said complementary handle is springably coupled to said complementary handle. 74. The complementary handle of claim 72 wherein said at least one clip of said complementary handle is arranged in said complementary handle to pinch a portion of said gripper between said at least one clip of said complementary handle and another portion of said complementary handle when said gripper engages said complementary handle. 75. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 53 wherein said gripper is capable of grasping said complementary handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said complementary handle relative to said gripper. 76. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 75 wherein said gripper is capable of grasping said complementary handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper. 77. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 53 wherein said gripper is capable of grasping said complementary handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of rotational freedom of said complementary handle relative to said gripper. 78. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 77 wherein said gripper is capable of grasping said complementary handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of rotational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper. 79. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 53 wherein said gripper is capable of grasping said complementary handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom and three degrees of rotational freedom of said complementary handle relative to said gripper. 80. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 79 wherein said gripper is capable of grasping said complementary handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom and three degrees of rotational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper. 81. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 53 wherein said complementary handle is no larger than said microcomponent. 82. The gripper and complementary handle of claim 53 wherein said gripper is a micro-gripper. 83. A gripper for engaging a micro-handle on a microcomponent to achieve a grasp of said microcomponent, said gripper comprising one or more engaging mechanism, said one or more engaging mechanism being complementary to said micro-handle; and said one or more engaging mechanism capable of exerting a force against said micro-handle to achieve a grasp of said microcomponent. 84. The gripper of claim 83 wherein said one or more engaging mechanism includes: a notch for engaging said micro-handle. 85. The gripper of claim 84 wherein said notch aids in aligning said gripper with said micro-handle. 86. The gripper of claim 83 wherein said gripper is capable of grasping said micro-handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said micro-handle relative to said gripper. 87. The gripper of claim 86 wherein said gripper is capable of grasping said micro-handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper. 88. The gripper of claim 83 wherein said gripper is capable of grasping said micro-handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of rotational freedom of said micro-handle relative to said gripper. 89. The gripper of claim 88 wherein said gripper is capable of grasping said micro-handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of rotational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper. 90. The gripper of claim 83 wherein said gripper is capable of grasping said micro-handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom and three degrees of rotational freedom of said micro-handle relative to said gripper. 91. The gripper of claim 90 wherein said gripper is capable of grasping said micro-handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom and three degrees of rotational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper. 92. A gripper for engaging a handle on a microcomponent to achieve a grasp of said microcomponent, said gripper comprising one or more engaging mechanism, said one or more engaging mechanism being complementary to said handle, wherein said one or more engaging mechanism includes at least one clip for engaging said handle; and said one or more engaging mechanism capable of exerting a force against said handle to achieve a grasp of said microcomponent. 93. The gripper of claim 92 wherein said at least one clip is springably coupled to said gripper. 94. The gripper of claim 93 wherein said at least one clip is springably coupled to said one or more engaging mechanism. 95. The gripper of claim 92 wherein said clip is arranged in said gripper to pinch a portion of said handle between said at least one clip and a base member of said gripper when said gripper engages said handle. 96. The gripper of claim 92 wherein said handle is no larger than said microcomponent. 97. A handle for aiding a gripper mechanism to achieve a desirable grasp of a microcomponent, said handle comprising: one or more receptacle implemented on a microcomponent, said one or more receptacle being complementary to one or more engaging portion of a gripper mechanism to enable said gripper mechanism to achieve a grasp of said microcomponent by said one or more engaging portion of said gripper mechanism engaging said one or more receptacle implemented on said microcomponent. 98. The handle of claim 97 wherein said handle is an integrated part of said microcomponent. 99. The handle of claim 97 wherein said handle is a separate part coupled to said microcomponent. 100. The handle of claim 97 wherein said receptacle includes at least one aperture for receiving at least a portion of said gripper mechanism. 101. The handle of claim 97 further including: at least one notch arranged for being engaged by said gripper mechanism. 102. The handle of claim 101 wherein said at least one notch aids in aligning said gripper mechanism with said receptacle. 103. The handle of claim 97 further including: at least one clip arranged to engage said gripper mechanism. 104. The handle of claim 103 wherein said at least one clip is springably coupled to said handle. 105. The handle of claim 103 wherein said at least one clip is arranged to pinch a portion of said gripper mechanism between said at least one clip and another portion of said handle when said gripper mechanism engages said receptacle. 106. The handle of claim 97 wherein said handle is complementary to said gripper mechanism in a manner such that three degrees of translational freedom of said handle are constrained relative to said gripper mechanism when said gripper mechanism grasps said handle. 107. The handle of claim 106 wherein said handle is complementary to said gripper mechanism in a manner such that three degrees of translational freedom of said microcomponent are constrained relative to said gripper mechanism when said gripper mechanism grasps said handle. 108. The handle of claim 97 wherein said handle is complementary to said gripper mechanism in a manner such that three degrees of rotational freedom of said handle are constrained relative to said gripper mechanism when said gripper mechanism grasps said handle. 109. The handle of claim 108 wherein said handle is complementary to said gripper mechanism in a manner such that three degrees of rotational freedom of said microcomponent are constrained relative to said gripper mechanism when said gripper mechanism grasps said handle. 110. The handle of claim 97 wherein said handle is complementary to said gripper mechanism in a manner such that three degrees of translational freedom, and three degrees of rotational freedom of said handle are constrained relative to said gripper mechanism when said gripper mechanism grasps said handle. 111. The handle of claim 110 wherein said handle is complementary to said gripper mechanism in a manner such that three degrees of translational freedom and three degrees of rotational freedom of said microcomponent are constrained relative to said gripper mechanism when said gripper mechanism grasps said handle. 112. The handle of claim 97 wherein said handle is no larger than said microcomponent. 113. A method for performing pick-and-place operations on a microcomponent, said method comprising the steps of: providing a gripper device; providing a handle on a microcomponent, wherein said handle is complementary to said gripper device to aid said gripper device in achieving a grasp of said handle; obtaining a grasp of said microcomponent with said gripper device by grasping said handle with said gripper device; positioning said grasped microcomponent to a target location with said gripper device; and releasing said grasped microcomponent at said target location by said gripper device releasing said handle. 114. The method of claim 113 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: engaging said handle with at least two arms of said gripper device. 115. The method of claim 114 wherein said handle includes at least one aperture for receiving said at least two arms of said gripper device. 116. The method of claim 114 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: engaging said handle with a notch included on each of said at least two arms. 117. The method of claim 116 wherein said notch on each of said at least two arms aids in aligning said gripper device with said handle. 118. The method of claim 116 wherein said handle includes at least one notch for receiving said notch on each of said at least two arms. 119. The method of claim 118 wherein said notch included on said handle aids in aligning said gripper device with said handle. 120. The method of claim 113 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: engaging at least one notch included in said handle by said gripper device. 121. The method of claim 120 wherein said at least one notch included in said handle aids in aligning said gripper device with said handle. 122. The method of claim 113 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: engaging said handle with at least one clip included in said gripper device. 123. The method of claim 122 wherein said at least one clip is springably coupled to said gripper device. 124. The method of claim 123 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: pinching a portion of said handle between said at least one clip and a base member of said gripper device. 125. The method of claim 113 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: said gripper device grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said handle relative to said gripper device. 126. The method of claim 125 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: said gripper device grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper device. 127. The method of claim 113 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: said gripper device grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of rotational freedom of said handle relative to said gripper device. 128. The method of claim 127 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: said gripper device grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of rotational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper device. 129. The method of claim 113 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: said gripper device grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom and three degrees of rotational freedom of said handle relative to said gripper device. 130. The method of claim 129 wherein said obtaining a grasp step further includes: said gripper device grasping said handle in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom and three degrees of rotational freedom of said microcomponent relative to said gripper device. 131. The method of claim 113 wherein said handle is no larger than said microcomponent. 132. The method of claim 113 wherein said step of obtaining a grasp of said microcomponent comprises: said gripper device engaging said handle with sufficiently small amount of surface contact between said gripper device and said handle to enable said gripper device to accurately release the grasped microcomponent at said target location in said releasing step. 133. A system comprising: means for gripping a microcomponent; and handle means on said microcomponent, wherein said handle means is no larger than said microcomponent and is complementary to said gripping means for enabling said gripping means to achieve a desirable grasp of said microcomponent. 134. The system of claim 133 wherein said gripping means further includes: at least one means for pinching said handle means. 135. The system of claim 134 wherein said means for pinching is arranged to pinch a portion of said handle means when said gripping means engages said handle means. 136. The system of claim 133 wherein said handle means further includes at least one means for pinching said gripping means. 137. The system of claim 136 wherein said at least one means for pinching said gripping means is arranged to pinch a portion of said gripping means when said gripping means engages said handle means. 138. The system of claim 133 wherein said gripping means is capable of grasping said handle means in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said handle means relative to said gripping means. 