A system of manufacturing a stator is provided. The system comprises: a pallet, which includes, a base portion, a first ring rotatably disposed within the base portion for supporting the stator, a second ring rotatably disposed in the base portion, the second ring including a plurality of clips for releasably securing a plurality of leads extending from the stator; a conveyor system for supporting the pallet and moving the pallet between a plurality of stations; and a means for sleeving at least one of the plurality of leads of the stator at one of the plurality of stations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for manufacturing a stator comprising: a pallet including: a base portion; a first ring rotatably disposed within the base portion for supporting the stator; and a second ring rotatably disposed in the base portion, the second ring including a plurality of clips for releasably securing a plurality of leads extending from the stator; a conveyer system for supporting the pallet and moving the pallet between a plurality of stations; and means for sleeving at least one of the plurality of leads of the stator at one of the plurality of stations. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the means for sleeving includes a first robotic device for selecting the at least one of the plurality of leads. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the one of the plurality of stations includes a spool of sleeve material. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the means for sleeving further includes a second robotic device for positioning a selected section of the sleeve material over the at least one of the plurality of leads. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first ring includes a recessed step upon which to place the stator. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first ring and second ring are secured from rotational movement using a spring loaded locking pin. 7. A system for manufacturing a stator comprising: means for supporting the stator including; means for rotating the stator; and means for securing a plurality of leads extending from the stator; means for moving the stator between a plurality of stations; and means for sleeving at least one of the plurality of leads of the stator at one of the plurality of stations. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the means for sleeving includes means for selecting the at least one of the plurality of leads. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the one of the plurality of stations includes a spool of sleeve material. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the means for sleeving includes means for positioning a selection section of the sleeve material over the at least one of the plurality of leads. 