A laser welding apparatus for use in industrial processing, which is operable to emit laser energy to weld blanks and the like together along a seamline. The emitted laser energy comprises a multiple beam of two or more coherent light sources. The apparatus is adapted to selectively reposition the orientation of the multiple beam relative to the seamline to compensate for gaps between the abutting portions of the workpieces to be joined.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for joining together proximal edge portions of two workpiece blanks along a seamline comprising, a coherent light source for emitting a composite beam to weld said blanks together along said seamline, said composite beam including a first laser beam and a second laser beam, each of said first and second laser beams being focused towards a portion of said blanks to be welded at respective focal areas having an optic centre, wherein the optic centres of said first and second laser beams are offset from each other and each define points on a focal line of said composite beam, a positioning mechanism operable to selectively alter the orientation of said focal line relative to said portion of said blanks, wherein said positioning mechanism includes at least three fiber optic coherent light source emitters selectively activatable to emit one of said first and second laser beams, a controller for controlling the positioning mechanism to selectively activate said coherent light source emitters to change the orientation of said composite beam and move said focal line to a preset orientation relative to said portion of said blanks to be welded. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a sensor for sensing spacing between the proximal edge portions of the blanks at said portion of said blanks, the controller being operable to change the orientation of said composite beam in response to said sensed spacing. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said coherent light source emitters comprise fiber optic cables. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein said first laser beam and said second laser beam are substantially non-overlapping. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said sensor comprises a sensing coherent light source emitter, and a coherent light source receptor. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said coherent light source includes a laser head which is movable along a path substantially along said seamline, and said apparatus further includes a drive operable to move said laser head along said path, and wherein the speed of movement of said laser head along said path is related to operating factors selected from the group consisting of the sensed spacing and the position of said focal line relative to said portion of said blanks to be welded. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein said composite beam further includes a third laser beam, said third laser beam being focused towards said blanks at a focal area having an optic centre, wherein the optic centre of the third laser beam is intersected by the focal line. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said positioning mechanism includes at least five fiber optic cable emitters, each of said fiber optic cable emitters being selectively operable to emit laser beams having substantially non-overlapping focal areas. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said coherent light source comprises a yttrium aluminum garnet laser. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said positioning mechanism is operable to selectively emit said beam in a position where said focal line is oriented out of alignment with said portion of said seamline, and a position wherein said focal line is substantially aligned with said portion of said seamline. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein said optic centres are offset from each other by a distance between about 0.1 mm to 3 mm. 12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein the focal area of each of said first and second laser beams at said seamline has a divergence radius selected at between about 0.2 mm and 1 mm. 13. A laser apparatus for welding together abutting edge portions of two sheet metal blanks along a seamline, the apparatus comprising: a laser head operable to emit laser energy to weld said blanks together along the seamline, a positioning mechanism operable to selectively change the orientation of said laser energy relative said seamline, a sensor apparatus for sensing spacing, between the abutting edge portions of the blanks, control means for controlling the positioning mechanism in response to the sensed spacing substantially continuously during welding of said sheet metal blanks, and wherein said laser energy comprises a multiple beam of at least two offset laser beams, and wherein said laser head includes at least three coherent light source emitters, said positioning mechanism being operable to selectively activate at least some of said coherent light source emitters to change the orientation of said multiple beam relative to said seamline. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein said sensor apparatus comprises a coherent light source, and a sensor for sensing light from said coherent light source. 15. A method of using an apparatus to join together adjacent portions of two workpiece blanks along a seamline, the apparatus including, laser for emitting a composite beam to weld said blanks together along said seamline, said composite beam including a first laser beam and a second laser beam, each of said first and second laser beams being focused towards a portion of said blanks to be welded at respective focal areas having an optic center, wherein the optic centers of said first and second laser beams are offset from each other and each define one end of a focal line of said composite beam, a positioning mechanism operable to alter the orientation of said composite beam to move said focal line relative to said portion of said blanks, and a sensing apparatus operable to sense spacing between the abutting portions of the blanks, wherein said adjacent portions of said workpiece blanks are joined by the steps of: activating said laser to direct said composite beam towards said seamline, sensing the spacing between the adjacent portions of the blanks at said portion of said blanks to be welded prior to or while moving said composite beam therealong, moving said composite laser beam and said sheet blanks relative to each other to move said focal line along said portion of said blanks to be welded, changing the orientation of said focal line relative to said portion of said seamline to a preset position determined by the sensed spacing between the workpiece blanks at said portion, and said positioning mechanism comprises at least three laser beam emitters selectively activatable to emit one of said first laser beam and said second laser beam, wherein orientation of said focal line relative said portion of said blanks is determined by the selective activation or deactivation of said laser beam emitters. 16. A method as claimed in claim 15, wherein during said step of moving said composite beam, said composite beam and said sheet blanks are moved relative to each other at a speed determined by at least one of the position of the focal line relative to the portion of the blanks to be welded and the spacing between the workpiece blanks at said portion. 17. A method of using an apparatus to join together adjacent portions of two workpiece blanks along a seamline, the apparatus including, laser for emitting a composite beam to weld said blanks together along said seamline, said composite beam including a first laser beam and a second laser beam, each of said first and second laser beams being focused towards a portion of said blanks to be welded at respective focal areas having an optic center, wherein the optic centers of said first and second laser beams are offset from each other and each define one end of a focal line of said composite beam, a positioning mechanism operable to alter the orientation of said composite beam to move said focal line relative to said portion of said blanks, and a sensing apparatus operable to sense spacing between the abutting portions of the blanks, wherein said adjacent portions of said workpiece blanks are joined by the steps of: activating said laser to direct said composite beam towards said seamline, sensing the spacing between the adjacent portions of the blanks at said portion of said blanks to be welded prior to or while moving said composite beam therealong, moving said composite laser beam and said sheet blanks relative to each other to move said focal line along said portion of said blanks to be welded, changing the orientation of said focal line relative to said portion of said seamline to a preset position determined by the sensed spacing between the workpiece blanks at said portion, and wherein said positioning mechanism comprises a bundle of at least three fiber optic cable emitters selectively activatable to emit one of said first laser beam and said second laser beam, wherein orientation of said focal line relative said portion of said blanks is determined by the selective activation or deactivation of said fiber optic cable emitters. 18. The method as claimed in claim 17, wherein said laser comprises a yttrium aluminum garnet laser. 