The present invention relates to a cranial radiography apparatus, particularly intended for dental panoramic radiography, said apparatus comprising a first body part to which is connected a second body part (13) having thereto connected a third body part (14) to which is connected a fourth body part (15). To the opposite ends of said fourth body part (15) are connected an x-ray source and an x-ray detector. The body parts are connected to each other by means of pivot shafts aligned essentially parallel to each other. The pivot shafts are rotated by means of active actuators and their rotational movement is programmably controlled by means of a computer, thus permitting the x-ray source and the x-ray detector to be moved over any predetermined orbit. The apparatus further includes means for radiography using a cephalostat. The apparatus can be adapted for robotic change of the x-ray detector by virtue of said movements of the body parts of the apparatus and a storage post designed to store the x-ray detectors used in different radiography modes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cranial radiography apparatus comprising: a first body part; a second body part having first and second ends, said second body part coupled to said first body part at said first end; a third body part coupled to said second body part at said second end, said third body part being rotatable with respect to said second body part; a first pivot shaft for coupling said third body part to said second body part at said second end; a fourth body part coupled to said third body part said fourth body part being rotatable with respect to said third body part; a second pivot shaft for coupling said fourth body part to said third body part; an x-ray source coupled to a first end of said fourth body part; an x-ray detector coupled to a second end of said fourth body part; means for rotating said third body part; means for rotating said fourth body part; means for selectively controlling said means for rotating said third and fourth body parts to thereby enable said x-ray source and said x-ray detector to be moved along a selected orbit; wherein said first and second pivot shafts are structured and arranged to be substantially parallel to one another and located at a constant fixed distance from one another. 2. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said fourth body part is a substantially c-shaped horizontal member; wherein said first end of said fourth body part is structured and arranged to detachably secure said x-ray source; and wherein said second end of said fourth body part is structured and arranged to detachably secure said x-ray detector. 3. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said fourth body part includes first and second substantially L-shaped arms adapted to be rotated around a vertical axis, said first L-shaped arm coupled to said x-ray source and said second L-shaped Arm coupled to said x-ray detector. 4. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first body part is coupled to said second body part by means of a third pivot shaft; and said apparatus further comprising: an active program-controlled actuator operably coupled to said third pivot shaft. 5. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 4, wherein an axis of said first pivot shaft is parallel to an axis of said second pivot shaft and wherein an axis of said third pivot shaft is parallel to said axis of said first and second pivot shafts. 6. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first body part is permanently connected to said second body part. 7. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said second body part is mounted directly to one of a wall and ceiling. 8. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a cephalostat mounted to said apparatus by means of a support arm coupled to one of said first and second body parts; wherein said support arm is structured and arranged to be parallel to said second and third body parts and extends from an opposite side of said first body part relative to said second and third body parts. 9. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first body part is a telescoping arm which permits a height adjustment of said second, third and fourth body parts. 10. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein an axis of said first pivot shaft is parallel to an axis of said second pivot shaft. 11. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said axis of said first pivot shaft is vertically parallel to said axis of said second pivot shaft. 12. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said third and fourth body parts are structured and arranged to permit a manual positioning of said third and fourth body parts. 13. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said second is structured and arranged to permit a manual position of said second body part. 14. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for rotating said third body part is a first active actuator; wherein said means for rotating said fourth body part is a second active actuator; and wherein said means for selectively controlling said means for rotating said third and fourth body parts comprises a keyboard operably coupled to a central computing unit, a plurality of driver units operably coupled to said central computing unit and responsive to said central computing unit, said driver units being structured and arranged to control said first and second active actuators. 15. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said first and second active actuators are pulse-controlled stepping motors. 16. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said x-ray detector is one of a radiographic film with a cassette holder and transfer means thereof and a CCD sensor. 17. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus is structured and arranged to be collapsible into a compact configuration for one of transport and storage. 18. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said second body part is a single-member horizontal arm. 19. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said second body part comprises a first and second horizontal arms mounted one on top of the other. 20. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a storage post for storing said x-ray detector. 21. The cranial radiography apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said x-ray detector is selectively detachable from said fourth body part to enable said detector to removed from said apparatus and stored in said storage post. 