The present invention relates to a method of determining a thickness of at least one layer on at least one semiconductor wafer (12), comprising the steps of: projecting a first laser pulse (14) on a surface (16) of the at least one layer (10), thereby generating an acoustical wave due to heating of the surface of the at least one layer (10); after a propagation time of the acoustical wave, projecting a series of second laser pulses (18) on the surface (16) of the at least one layer (10); measuring reflected laser pulses (20) of the second laser pulses (18), thereby sensing the times of reflection property changes of the surface (16) of the at least one layer (10); and determining the thickness of the at least one layer (10) by analyzing the times of reflection property changes. The present invention further relates to a system for determining a thickness of a layer (10) on a semiconductor wafer (12).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining a thickness of at least one layer on at least one semiconductor wafer, comprising the steps of: projecting a first laser pulse on a surface of the at least one layer, thereby generating an acoustical wave due to heating of the surface of the at least one layer, after a propagation time of the acoustical wave, projecting a series of second laser pulses on the surface of the at least one layer, measuring reflected laser pulses of the second laser pulses, thereby sensing the times of reflection property changes of the surface of the at least one layer, and determining the thickness of the at least one layer by analyzing the times of reflection property changes. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first laser pulse is generated by a first laser source, and the series of second laser pulses is generated by a second laser source. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first laser pulse and the series of second laser pulses are generated by the same laser source. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first laser pulse and the series of second laser pulses propagate on different light paths between a source and the at least one semiconductor wafer. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first laser pulse and the series of second laser pulses propagate on essentially the same light path between a source and the at least one semiconductor wafer. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of layers in multi-layer film stacks is measured. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein multiple locations across the semiconductor wafer are measured to determine wafer uniformity. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one layer is deposited by electroplating. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the at least one layer is determined to monitor a plasma etch process. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the at least one layer is determined to monitor a diffusion process. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the at least one layer is determined to monitor a chemical vapor deposition process. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the at least one layer is determined to monitor a physical vapor deposition process. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the at least one layer is determined to monitor a wet process. 