A process and apparatus for forming a leak proof body and cap. The process including the steps of defining a mold cavity between a first mold part and a second mold part, injecting a molten material into the mold cavity thereby forming from the molten material a body and cap, and retracting the first mold part from the second mold part to separate the first mold part from the body and cap. Thereafter, engaging at least the body with a robotic arm and moving the body with the robotic arm into a capping device while the body and cap are at a temperature at which the material is not fully set. The body is then sealed by moving the cap into engagement with the body to form a leak proof seal.
Claims We claim: 1. A process for forming a leak-proof body and cap comprising the steps of: defining a mold cavity between a first mold part and a second mold part; injecting a molten plastic material into at least one mold cavity in the second mold part thereby forming from the molten material a body and cap; retracting the first mold part from the second mold part to separate the first mold part from the body and cap; .[.engaging at least one of the body and cap before the material is fully set with engagement means on a robotic arm.]. ; .Iadd.inserting a robotic arm between the first mold part and the body and cap;.Iaddend. .Iadd.ejecting the body partially from the second mold part before the body and cap are fully set;.Iaddend. removing the body and cap .Iadd.completely .Iaddend.from the mold .Iadd.by the robotic arm by engaging at least one of the body and cap.Iaddend.; moving the body and cap with the robotic arm into a capping device while the body and cap are at a temperature at which the material is not fully set; and sealing the body in the capping device before the material is fully set by moving the cap into engagement with the body to form a leak-proof seal before the material is fully set. .[. 2. The process claim 1, wherein the engaging step comprises: inserting a receiving means between the first mold part and the body with the robotic arm; ejecting the body partially from the mold until the body and cap engage the receiving means; removing the body completely from the second mold part with the robotic arm..]. 3. The process of claim .[.2.]. .Iadd.1.Iaddend., wherein the ejecting step comprises activating a poppet in the mold. 4. The process of claim .[.2.]. .Iadd.1.Iaddend., wherein the .[.receiving means.]. .Iadd.robotic arm .Iaddend.inserted between the first mold part and the body .[.is.]. .Iadd.includes .Iaddend.a plate having at least one suction cup thereon. 5. The process of claim 4, wherein the .[.ejecting.]. .Iadd.removing .Iaddend.step comprises activating a suction source connected to the at least one suction cup..[. 6. The process of claim 1, further comprising a step, prior to the retracting step, of cooling the vial to a temperature at which the material will maintain its shape but is not fully set..]. 7. The process of claim 1, wherein the sealing step comprises pivoting part to move the cap with respect to the body so as to guide the cap into engagement with the body to form a leak proof seal. 8. The process of claim 7, further comprising the steps of: providing a signal which indicates when the pivoting part has sealed the cap on the body; and dropping the sealed body from the capping device in response to the signal. 9. The process of claim 1, wherein the temperature of the .[.vial.]. .Iadd.body .Iaddend.during the .[.grasping, moving and sealing steps.]. .Iadd.not fully set condition .Iaddend.is about 100-120.degree. F. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step or applying suction .[.through the engagement means.]. to engage said one of the body and cap .Iadd.to the robotic arm.Iaddend.. 11. The method of claim .[.1.]. .Iadd.4.Iaddend., wherein the .[.engagement means.]. .Iadd.material forming the at least one suction cup .Iaddend.is softer than the material .Iadd.forming the body and cap.Iaddend.. 12. The process of claim 1, wherein the step of .[.engaging.]. .Iadd.removing .Iaddend.is performed without damaging sealing surfaces on the body and cap. 13. The process of claim 1, wherein the body and cap are formed with a connecting hinge..[. 14. The process of claim 1, wherein both the body and the cap are engaged by the engaging means..]..[. 15. A process for forming an aseptic, leak-proof vial with a cap comprising the steps of: defining a mold cavity between an end mold part and an interior mold part on one side and a second mold part on the other side, wherein said interior mold part and said second mold part are in direct contact with each other; injecting a molten material into the mold cavity thereby forming from the molten material a vial and a cap, said vial having an annular region at the top edge thereof for interlocking with an annular region at the interior periphery of the cap; retracting the end mold part from the interior mold part to separate the end mold part from the vial and cap while applying a biasing force against the interior mold part so as to bias the interior mold part against the rest of the mold to retain the vial and cap within the second mold part; limiting the distance that the end mold part is separated from the interior mold part; retracting the interior mold part from the second mold part when the end mold part has been retracted a predetermined distance from the interior mold part; ejecting the vial and the cap at least partially from the mold before the material is fully set; engaging at least one of the vial and cap with engagement means on a robotic arm; moving the vial with the robotic arm into a vial holder having a pivoting part while the vial is at a temperature at which the interior of the vial is in an aseptic condition and the material has not fully set; pivoting the pivoting part to move the cap with respect to the vial so as to guide the interlocking annular region of the cap onto the corresponding interlocking annular region of the vial so as to seal the cap on the vial before the material is fully set and while the interior of the vial is in an aseptic condition..]. .[. 16. The process of claim 15, further comprising the steps of: providing a signal which indicates when the pivoting part has sealed the cap on the vial; and dropping the sealed vial from the vial holder in response to the signal..]. .[. 17. The process of claim 15, further including a step of venting from the mold cavity gases that are released during the injecting step..]..[. 18. The process of claim 15, further comprising a step of cooling the vial and cap to about 100-200.degree. F. before retracting the end mold part..]..[. 19. The process of claim 15, wherein the temperature of the vial during the grasping, moving and sealing steps is cool enough so that the material is not deformed and is hot enough so that the material is not fully set..]..[. 20. The process of claim 19, wherein the temperature of the vial during the grasping, moving and sealing steps is about 100-120.degree. F..]. 21. A process for forming a leak-proof body and cap comprising the steps of: defining a mold cavity between a first mold part and a second mold part; injecting a molten plastic material into .[.at least one.]. .Iadd.the .Iaddend.mold cavity .[.in the second mold part.]. thereby forming from the molten material a body and cap; inserting a .[.receiving means.]. .Iadd.robotic arm .Iaddend.between the first mold part and .[.the body with a robotic arm.]. .Iadd.the second mold part.Iaddend.; ejecting the body partially from the mold .Iadd.cavity .Iaddend.before the body and cap are fully set .[.until the body and cap engage the receiving means.]. ; removing the body completely from the .[.second.]. mold .[.part.]. .Iadd.cavity .Iaddend.with the robotic arm .Iadd.by engaging at least one of the body and cap.Iaddend.; moving the body and cap with the robotic arm into a capping device while the body and cap are at a temperature at which the material is not fully set; and sealing the body before the material is fully set by moving the cap into engagement with the body to form a leak-proof seal. 22. The process of claim 21, wherein the step of .[.engaging.]. .Iadd.removing .Iaddend.is performed without damaging sealing surfaces on the body and cap. 23. The process of claim 21, wherein the ejecting step comprises activating a poppet in the mold..[. 24. The process of claim 21, wherein the receiving means inserted between the first mold part and the body is a plate having at least one suction cup thereon..]..[. 25. A process for forming a leak-proof body and cap comprising the steps of: defining a mold cavity between a first mold part and a second mold part; injecting a molten plastic material into at least one mold cavity in the second mold part thereby forming from the molten material a body and cap; receiving the first mold part from the second mold part to separate the first mold part from the body and cap; removing at least partially the body and cap from the mold cavity before the material is fully set; engaging at least one of the body and cap before the body and cap are fully set with engagement means on a robotic arm; moving the body and cap with the robotic arm into a capping device while the body and cap are at a temperature at which the material is not fully set; sealing the body before the material is fully set by moving the cap into engagement with the body to form a leak-proof seal..]. 26. An apparatus for forming a leak-proof body with a cap comprising: a mold having a first mold part, a second mold part and a mold cavity formed between the first and second mold parts; .Iadd.an .Iaddend.injection .[.means for injecting.]. .Iadd.device adapted to a inject .Iaddend.a molten material into the mold cavity to form a body and a cap; .Iadd.a .Iaddend.retracting .[.means for retrieving.]. .Iadd.device adapted to retract .Iaddend.the first mold part from the second mold part to separate the first mold part from the body and cap; .Iadd.an ejection device adapted to eject the body and cap partially from the second mold part before the body and cap are fully set;.Iaddend. a robotic arm .[.having engagement means.]. configured .Iadd.to insert the robotic arm between the first mold part and the body and .Iaddend.to engage at least one of the body and the cap before the body and the cap are fully set and to move the body and cap from the mold to a capping device before the material is fully set; and a capping device for sealing the cap on the body while the body and cap are at a temperature at which the material of the body and cap is not fully set. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising: a plate mounted on the robotic arm for engaging the body and cap; and .[.a grasping means.]. .Iadd.a suction cup mounted .Iaddend.on the plate for grasping either the body or the cap. 28. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the capping device further comprises a pair of movable arms for holding the body and a flipper for moving the cap into engagement with the body. 29. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising .[.suction means.]. .Iadd.suction cup .Iaddend.for engaging said one of the body and cap. 30. The apparatus of claim .[.26.]. .Iadd.27.Iaddend., wherein the .[.engagement means.]. .Iadd.material forming the suction cup .Iaddend.is softer than the not fully set material..Iadd. 31. A process for forming a leak-proof body and cap comprising the steps of: defining a mold cavity between first and second mold parts; injecting a molten plastic material into the mold cavity to form a body and cap; separating the first and second mold parts; inserting a robotic arm between the first and second mold parts; ejecting the body and cap partially from the mold cavity before the body and cap are fully set; removing the body and cap completely from the mold cavity by the robotic arm by engaging at least one of the body and cap; moving the body and cap with the robotic arm into a capping device before the material is fully set; moving the cap into engagement with the body in the capping device before the moving material is fully set to form a leak-proof seal..Iaddend..Iadd. 32. The process of claim 31, wherein the temperature of the body in the not fully set condition is about 100.degree.-120.degree. F..Iaddend..Iadd. 33. The process of claim 31, wherein the temperature of the body and cap in the not fully set condition is about 100.degree.-120.degree. F..Iaddend..Iadd. 34. The process of claim 31, wherein the body and cap are formed with a connecting hinge..Iaddend..Iadd. 35. The process of claim 31, wherein the removing step includes the further step of applying suction through a suction cup connected to the robotic arm to engage at least one of said body and cap..Iaddend. 