A control system for controlling mobile robots provides a way to control mobile robots, connected in tandem with coupling devices, to navigate across difficult terrain or in closed spaces. The mobile robots can be controlled cooperatively as a coupled system in linked mode or controlled individually as separate robots.
Claims We claim: 1. A control system for controlling tandem mobile robots, comprising: a) a control unit, comprising: i) an input-output system, adapted to receive input from an operator and generate tandem robot commands; and ii) a communication system, adapted to transmit the tandem robot commands to the tandem mobile robots; and b) a power source, connected to power the control unit. 2. The control system of claim 1, wherein the input-output system comprises: a) a motion command device, proportionally responsive to the operator inputs; and b) a mode selector, adapted to receive mode-input from the operator and modify operation of the control system. 3. The control system of claim 1, wherein the input-output system is adapted to display output to the operator. 4. The control system of claim 1, wherein each of the mobile robots comprises a robot data transmitter, wherein the communication system comprises a control unit data receiver responsive to each of the robot data transmitters. 5. The control system of claim 4, wherein the communication system further comprises a video receiver. 6. The control system of claim 5, wherein the input-output system is responsive to the video receiver. 7. The control system of claim 1, wherein the communication system comprises a control unit data transmitter, wherein each of the mobile robots comprises a robot data receiver responsive to the control unit data transmitter. 8. The control system of claim 7, wherein the robot further comprises a robot video unit. 9. The control system of claim 1, wherein each of the mobile robots comprises a robot data transceiver, wherein the communication system comprises a control unit data transceiver capable of communication bi-directionally with each of the robot data transceivers. 10. The control system of claim 9, wherein the robot further comprises a robot video unit and wherein the communication system further comprises a video receiver. 11. The control system of claim 9, wherein each robot data transceiver comprises: a repeater control mode, capable of communication bi-directionally with each of the other robot data transceivers, and repeating tandem robot commands. 12. The control system of claim 1, wherein the control unit comprises a linked robot control mode, operably controlling the mobile robots in tandem, and wherein the tandem robot commands are synergistic tandem robot commands. 13. The control system of claim 1, wherein each of the mobile robots comprise a robot video unit, wherein the communication system comprises a video receiver responsive to the robot video units. 14. The control system of claim 13, further comprising a personal video display apparatus, adapted to be worn by the operator and responsive to the video receiver. 15. The control system of claim 1, wherein the control unit further comprises a microprocessor. 16. The control system of claim 1, wherein the control system is adapted to be carried by the operator. 17. A control system for controlling tandem mobile robots, wherein each robot comprises a robot data transceiver and a robot video unit, wherein the control system comprises: a) an input-output system, adapted to be carried by an operator, comprising: i) a motion command device, generating robot commands proportionally responsive to operator input; and ii) a mode selector, adapted to receive mode-input from the operator and modify operation of the control system; b) a control unit data transceiver, capable of bi-directional communication with the robot data transceiver, and adapted to be carried by the operator; c) a video receiver, responsive to the robot video unit; d) a personal video display apparatus, adapted to be worn by the operator and responsive to the video receiver; e) a microprocessor, responsive to the input-output system and responsive to the control unit data transceiver, and adapted to be carried by the operator; and f) a power source, adapted to be carried by the operator, wherein the portable power unit powers the control system. 18. The control system of claim 17, wherein each robot further comprises a plurality of cameras, a video transmitter, a video receiver, and a video switcher, wherein the control system selects video from the plurality of cameras, responsive to the video switcher, the video transmitter, and the video receiver. 19. A method for controlling two or more robots in tandem, using a control unit for controlling input-output of at least one of the robots, each robot connectable by a coupling to another robot and operated synergistically as cooperating units, the method comprising the steps of: a) generating tandem robot commands from the control unit to one or more robots; b) transmitting tandem robot commands to the robots on a communication unit; and c) carrying out the tandem robot commands for one or more robots; d) wherein the control unit comprises the communication unit. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein each robot is connected with one coupling to another robot, wherein the control unit further comprises a linked robot control mode, the method further comprising: operating the coupled robots in tandem from the tandem robot commands for mobility. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the control unit further comprises a repeater control mode, the method further comprising: a) communicating the tandem robot commands between the robots using the repeater control mode; and b) operating the robots in a decoupled mode. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein each robot further comprises a plurality of cameras, a video transmitter, a video receiver, and a video switcher, wherein the method further comprises: a) selecting a video from the plurality of cameras, responsive to the video switcher, the video transmitter, and the video receiver; and b) communicating the video between the robots using the repeater control mode. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein the each robot further comprises a plurality of cameras, a video transmitter, a video receiver, and a video. switcher, wherein the method further comprises: from one or more robots, selecting a video from the plurality of cameras, responsive to the video switcher, the video transmitter, and the video receiver. 24. The method of claim 19, wherein each of the tandem mobile robots comprises at least one coupling, wherein the control unit further comprises remote de-couple/couple commands, wherein the method further comprises: activating the coupling connecting each robot to another robot. 