A position sensor for an electronic control pedal is carried by the pedal mounting bracket and includes a linear potentiometer having a slider operable along a substrate in only a linear direction for providing an output voltage representative of slider displacement. A drive arm is connected to the pedal shaft for rotation during pedal movement. A coupler connected to the slider is slidable within a slot in the drive arm for providing the linear displacement through a rotational movement of the shaft. The drive arm has an inner arm in a telescoping connection with an outer arm for setting the drive arm at a desired length after potentiometer calibration. The longitudinal axis of the slot is at an non-zero angle to the longitudinal axis of the drive arm for desensitizing the sensor calibration and adjustment process.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. An electronic control pedal comprising: a mounting bracket for mounting the pedal to a vehicle wall; a shaft rotatably carried by the bracket; a pedal beam operable with the shaft for rotation thereof; hysteresis means operable with the pedal beam for providing a mechanical response to movement of a pedal pad; and a position sensor responsive to movement of the pedal beam, the position sensor comprising: a housing carried by the mounting bracket the housing having an opening therein for receiving the shaft therethrough; a potentiometer carried within the housing, the potentiometer having a slider member sidable with a substrate in only a linear direction for providing an electrical output responsive to a linear displacement of the slider member along the substrate; a drive arm rotatable by the shaft, the drive arm operable with the slider member for providing the linear displacement thereto resulting from a rotation thereof, the drive arm having a first arm member operable with a second arm member for telescoping adjustment therewith along a drive arm longitudinal axis of the drive arm for securing at a fixed position thereto, the drive arm longitudinal axis radially extending from the axis of rotation of the shaft, wherein a slot within the drive arm has a slot longitudinal axis positioned at a non-zero angle to the drive arm longitudinal axis; and a coupler sidable within the slot, the coupler connected to the slider member for providing the linear displacement thereto. 2. A pedal according to claim 1, wherein the pedal pad is rotatably connected to the pedal beam for movement thereof. 3. A pedal according to claim 1, wherein the housing is integrally formed with the mounting bracket. 4. A pedal according to claim 1, wherein the potentiometer includes an electrical connector carried thereby for providing the electrical output. 5. A pedal according to claim 4, wherein the electrical connector extends outwardly from the substrate along a direction parallel to the linear direction. 6. A pedal according to claim 4, wherein the electrical connector extends outwardly from the substrate along a direction perpendicular to the linear direction. 7. An electronic control pedal comprising: a mounting bracket for mounting the pedal to a vehicle wall; a shaft rotatably carried by the bracket; a pedal beam operable with the shaft for rotation thereof; and a position sensor responsive to movement of the pedal beam, the position sensor comprising: a potentiometer having a slider member sidable with a substrate in only a linear direction for providing an electrical output responsive to a linear displacement of the slider member along the substrate; and a drive arm rotatable by the shaft, the drive arm operable with the slider member for providing the linear displacement thereto resulting from a rotation thereof, the drive arm having a first arm member operable with a second arm member for telescoping adjustment therewith along a drive arm longitudinal axis of the drive arm for securing at a fixed position thereto, the drive arm longitudinal axis radially extending from the axis of rotation of the shaft, wherein a slot within the drive arm has a slot longitudinal axis positioned at a non-zero angle to the drive arm longitudinal axis. 8. A pedal according to claim 7, further comprising hysteresis means operable with the pedal beam for providing a mechanical response to movement of the pedal pad. 9. A pedal according to claim 7, further comprising a pedal pad rotatably connected to the pedal beam for movement thereof. 10. A pedal according to claim 7, wherein a housing having the positioned sensor carried therein is integrally formed with the mounting bracket. 11. A pedal according to claim 7, wherein the potentiometer includes an electrical connector carried thereby for providing the electrical output. 12. A pedal according to claim 11, wherein the electrical connector extends outwardly from the substrate along a direction parallel to the linear direction. 13. A pedal according to claim 11, wherein the electrical connector extends outwardly from the substrate along a direction perpendicular to the linear direction. 14. A pedal according to claim 7, wherein the position sensor further comprises a coupler sidable within the slot, the coupler connected to the slider member for providing the linear displacement thereto. 