An apparatus for automatically transferring and handling cartridges containing flat articles. The method and apparatus robotically transfers filled cartridges from the output compartments of a sorting machine to a buffer shelf; and from the buffer shelf to a docking station of a cartridge unloader and automatic feeder to the input of the sorting machine, and for transferring empty cartridges from the docking station to either the buffer or the output compartments of the sorter, is provided.
Claims We claim: 1. A sorting system for flat articles comprising: a plurality of cartridges each sized to hold a stack of the flat articles, each cartridge including a bottom, sidewalls, and a pivotable door mounted to the sidewalls, the cartridge including a latch for securing and releasing the door and at least one actuating member for opening the door, an array of output compartments, each output compartment being configured to receive and support a cartridge and including a projection for engaging and unlocking the latch as a cartridge is inserted into the compartment, and at least one cam member for engaging the door actuating member and opening the door as the cartridge is positioned in the compartment to receive sorted articles, the array of output compartments being arranged in rows and columns; means for sorting flat articles into selected ones of the compartments, the flat articles being received in cartridges positioned in the output compartments; a transfer robot, the transfer robot including a vertical support column mounted on a rail for horizontal movement along the length of the array, a first motor coupled to the transfer robot for moving the robot along the rail, a cartridge support platform mounted on the support column for vertical movement along the support column, a second motor coupled to the support platform for moving the platform vertically along the support column, the cartridge support platform including an end effector operative to insert a cartridge into a compartment and extract a cartridge from a compartment, an actuator for actuating the end effector, an extensible support for supporting cartridges as the cartridges are inserted and removed and an actuator for actuating the extensible support; a sensor, the sensor detecting when a cartridge positioned in a compartment is substantially full of flat articles and generating a signal indicating that the cartridge is substantially full; and a supervisory computer being programmed to direct the transfer robot to remove the cartridge from the compartment in response to the signal indicating the cartridge is full. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of buffer shelves configured to receive cartridges removed from the output compartments by the transfer robot. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the supervisory computer being programmed to direct the transfer robot to remove a cartridge from a compartment and transfer the cartridge to a buffer shelf in response to a signal indicating the cartridge is full. 4. The system of claim 2 wherein a docking station comprises at least one hold bar and an actuator therefor and the door of the cartridge further comprises notches to receive the hold bars when the cartridge is inserted in the docking station, the hold bars retaining a stack of mail in the cartridge as the cartridge door is opened. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the cartridge further comprises a stack support, the stack support supporting flat items positioned in the cartridge and being slidable along a length of the cartridge and wherein the system further comprising a docking station for receiving flat articles from a cartridge presented by the transfer robot and unloading flat articles, the docking station including being configured to receive and support a cartridge and including a projection for engaging and unlocking the latch as a cartridge is inserted into the docking station, at least one cam member for engaging the door actuating member and opening the door as the cartridge is positioned in the docking station and a pusher for pushing the stack support and flat items supported by the stack support along the length of the cartridge so as to discharge a stack of flat items from the cartridge. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the robot moves along the rail to access cartridges positioned in the array of compartments and the buffer shelves. 7. The system of claim 1 further comprising means for detecting when a cartridge becomes substantially full of articles and means for causing the robot to remove that cartridge and transfer it to a buffer shelf while discontinuing sorting of articles to that cartridge. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the transfer robot is mounted between an upper and lower rail. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the transfer robot is connected to the first motor with a cable for moving the robot horizontally along the rail. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein the cartridge support platform is connected to the second motor with a cable for moving the cartridge support platform vertically along the support column. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein the cartridge further comprises at least one mating notch and wherein the extensible support further comprises a finger for engaging the mating notch when the robot engages the cartridge. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein the robot is equipped with a pair of cartridge support platforms. 13. The system of claim 1 wherein each compartment is provided with a sweeper gate and wherein the transfer robot is provided with an end actuator to pivot the sweeper gate between the first position wherein the sweeper gate being open in the first position to guide flat articles from the sorter means into a cartridge positioned in the compartment and a second, closed position for extraction of a cartridge from the compartment. 14. The system of claim 13 further comprising a motor for driving the end actuator and wherein the end acutator is moveably attached to the support platform and extends to engage and close the sweep gate to push flat articles into the cartridge. 15. The system of claim 1 further comprising a motor for driving the end actuator and wherein the end acutator is moveably attached to the support platform and extends to engage and close the sweep gate to push flat articles into the cartridge. 16. A sorting system for flat articles comprising: a plurality of cartridges each sized to hold a stack of the flat articles, each cartridge including a bottom, sidewalls, and a pivotable door mounted to the sidewalls, the cartridge including a latch for securing and releasing the door and at least one actuating member for opening the door; an array of output compartments, each output compartment being configured to receive and support a cartridge and including a projection for engaging and unlocking the latch as a cartridge is inserted into the compartment, and at least one cam member for engaging the door actuating member and opening the door as the cartridge is positioned in the compartment to receive sorted articles, the array of output compartments being arranged in rows and columns; means for sorting flat articles into selected ones of the compartments, the flat articles being received in cartridges positioned in the output compartments; robot means operative to insert a cartridge into a compartment and extract a cartridge from a compartment; means for detecting when a cartridge positioned in a compartment is substantially full of flat articles and generating a signal indicating that the cartridge is substantially full; and computer means programmed to direct the robot means to remove the cartridge from the compartment in response to the signal indicating the cartridge is full. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the cartridge means includes slidable support means, the support means supporting flat items positioned in the cartridge and being slidable along a length of the cartridge. 18. The system of claim 16 further comprising a docking station for receiving flat articles from a cartridge presented by the transfer robot and unloading flat articles, the docking station including being configured to receive and support a cartridge and including means for engaging and unlocking the latch as a cartridge is inserted into the docking station, means for engaging the door actuating member and opening the door as the cartridge is positioned in the docking station and means for pushing the stack support and flat items supported by the stack support along a length of the cartridge so as to discharge a stack of flat items from the cartridge. 19. The system of claim 18 further comprising means for enabling the robot means to access cartridges positioned in the array of compartments, buffer shelves, and the docking station. 20. The system of claim 18 wherein the means for enabling the robot means to access cartridges positioned in the array of compartments, buffer shelves and docking station includes an upper and lower rail and means for driving the robot means along the upper and lower rails. 21. The system of claim 16, wherein each compartment is provided with gate means and wherein the robot means is provided with means for moving the gate means between a first position wherein the gate means guides flat articles from the sorting means into a cartridge positioned in the compartment and a second, closed position for extraction of a cartridge from the compartment. 