A rail restraining (1) and weld delivery device (100) uses a frame for supporting a welding head with a clamp (3) for restraining a first rail end and a second rail end and a base twist assembly (17) for aligning said first end and second end. An interconnected weld containment apparatus (290) pivotally connects to the clamp by use of a cam actuated linear pin (7). This arrangement is operable in an environment in which clearance between rails is about 7 to 11 inches and sufficiently compact that it may be operated from and carried in a truck based on a standard over the road truck.
Claims We claim: 1. A rail restraining, weld containment and weld delivery apparatus for enabling the joining of a first rail end and a second rail end, each end being formed in a sectional profile with a rail base, a rail web and a rail head, said apparatus comprising: a first frame for supporting a clamp and a weld containment apparatus and adapted for aligning a welding head; said clamp adapted for restraining the first and second ends; said weld containment apparatus connected to said clamp and engageable with said ends by movement having a pivotal and longitudinal component; a mobile weld delivery unit delivering an automated welder having a welder head proximate said ends so that a weld can be made joining said ends. 2. The invention of claim 1 and said apparatus is operable in an environment in which clearance between adjacent rails is about 7 to 11 inches. 3. The invention of claim 1 and said weld containment apparatus being pivotally operated by use of a cam actuated linear pin in which longitudinal movement of the pin imparts pivotal movement in quadrants, said quadrants having cooling blocks mounted thereto. 4. The weld containment apparatus of claim 3 further comprising: said quadrants being pivotally connected to yokes; said yokes being slidably mounted on longitudinal shafts said shafts being mounted on a frame member, such that longitudinal movement of yokes on said shafts impart inward and outward pivotal swinging of said quadrants; said inward and outward pivotal swinging enabling the engagement of cooling blocks with said ends during welding and also enabling movement for clearance for the welding head to move reciprocally and vertically to weld the rail bases together, while closing the blocks to maintain the welding material in the web, and thence swinging to provide such clearance as is necessary to weld the head of the rail. 5. The weld containment apparatus of claim 4 further comprising: said pin having a fixed end and a cam end opposite said fixed end; said fixed end being fixed relative to said quadrant, and being pivotable in said yoke; said cam end fitting a cam mounted in said frame member, such that said longitudinal movement is imparted from said frame to said yoke, and as said frame member moves longitudinally relative to said yoke, said cam imparts rotational movement in said end, said end rotating said pin and said fixed quadrant, thereby engaging and disengaging rail welding cooling blocks from said rail ends. 6. The weld containment apparatus of claim 5 further comprising: said cam end being formed and arranged with between about 15 to 30 degrees twist in three quarters of one inch travel; said cam being formed and arranged with between about 15 to 30 degrees twist in three quarters of one inch travel. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising: said rail restraint having a first frame for supporting a clamp and adapted to support a weld containment apparatus and further adapted for aligning a welding head, said clamp adapted for restraining the first and second ends; said first frame having a fixed downwardly depending arm and a movable downwardly depending arm spaced therefrom defining a rail receiving space therebetween; said movable arm is eccentrically pivoted on said frame to enable capturing of a rail in said space; said movable arm being pivoted about a first pivot and a clamping force being applied to and released from a second pivot displaced from said first pivot; said frame supporting a third pivot and said third pivot connecting with a link to said second pivot whereby an actuating force applied to said link transmits said clamping force through said link; said link being a scissors link; said scissors link having a fourth pivot joining a first part connected to said third pivot and a second part connected to said second pivot, said actuating force being applied at said fourth pivot; said mobile weld delivery unit having a vehicle body and a welder; said welder being retractably and deployably carried in said body; said welder being automatically controlled by a controller, said controller calibrating the operation of said weld relative to the location of said rails; said weld operation calibration being performed based on touch sensing members located on said rail restraint; said vehicle having a longitudinal axis; said welder and controller coacting with a robot device to position a welder head based on said calibrated reference; said robot device having a base and a main axis, said main axis being aligned with the vehicle longitudinal axis. 8. The rail restraint of claim 1 further comprising: said first frame having a fixed downwardly depending arm and a movable downwardly depending arm spaced therefrom defining a rail receiving space therebetween; said movable arm is eccentrically pivoted on said frame to enable capturing of a rail in said space. 9. The rail restraint of claim 8 further comprising: said movable arm being pivoted about a first pivot and a clamping force being applied to and released from a second pivot displaced from said first pivot. 10. The rail restraint of claim 9 further comprising: said frame supporting a third pivot and said third pivot connecting with a link to said second pivot whereby an actuating force applied to said link transmits said clamping force through said link. 11. The rail restraint of claim 10 further comprising: said link being a scissors link; said scissors link having a fourth pivot joining a first part connected to said third pivot and a second part connected to said second pivot, said actuating force being applied at said fourth pivot. 12. The rail restraint of claim 11 further comprising: said clamp being a first clamp, said first clamp being disposed adjacent a first end of said frame; said frame having a second clamp disposed at a second end of said frame, said second end being opposite said first end; said second clamp being in form and operation analogous to said first clamp. 13. The rail restraint of claim 10 comprising: said arm having an inverted L shape with said first pivot being located proximate the end of the short leg of the L the second pivot being located proximate the intersection of the short leg of the L and the long leg of the L and a clamping pad being located at the end of the long leg of the L. 14. The rail restraint of claim 13 further comprising: said actuating force being applied to said link by force application means for imparting force acting between a mounting pin and said fourth pivot. 15. The rail restraint of claim 14 further comprising: said clamp being a first clamp, said first clamp being disposed adjacent a first end of said frame; said frame having a second clamp disposed at a second end of said frame, said second end being opposite said first end; said second clamp being in form and operation analogous to said first clamp. 16. The weld delivery unit of claim 1 further comprising: said mobile weld delivery unit having a vehicle body and a welder; said welder being retractably and deployably carried in said body; said welder being automatically controlled by a controller, said controller calibrating the operation of said weld relative to the location of said rails. 17. The weld delivery unit of claim 16 further comprising: said weld operation calibration being performed based on touch sensing members located on said rail restraint. 18. The weld delivery unit of claim 17 further comprising: said vehicle having a longitudinal axis; said welder and controller coacting with a robot device to position a welder head based on said calibrated reference; said robot device having a base and a main axis, said main axis being aligned with the vehicle longitudinal axis. 19. The weld delivery unit of claim 18 further comprising: said weld delivery unit including an induction heater for preheating said rails prior to welding. 20. A weld containment apparatus for enabling the joining of a first rail end and a second rail end, each end being formed in a sectional profile with a rail base, a rail web and a rail head, comprising: said weld containment apparatus being connectable to a clamp and engageable with said rail ends by movement having a pivotal and longitudinal component; said weld containment apparatus further being pivotally operated by use of a cam actuated linear pin in which longitudinal movement of the pin imparts pivotal movement in quadrants, said quadrants having cooling blocks mounted thereto. 21. The weld containment apparatus of claim 20 further comprising: said quadrants being pivotally connected to yokes; said yokes being slidably mounted on longitudinal shafts said shafts being mounted on a frame member, such that longitudinal movement of yokes on said shafts impart inward and outward pivotal swinging of said quadrants; said inward and outward pivotal swinging enabling the engagement of cooling blocks with said ends during welding and also enabling movement for clearance for the welding head to move reciprocally and vertically to weld the rail bases together, while closing the blocks to maintain the welding material in the web, and thence swinging to provide such clearance as is necessary to weld the head of the rail. 22. The weld containment apparatus of claim 21 further comprising: said pin having a fixed end and a cam end opposite said fixed end; said fixed end being fixed relative to said quadrant, and being pivotable in said yoke; said cam end fitting a cam mounted in said frame member, such that said longitudinal movement is imparted from said frame to said yoke, and as said frame member moves longitudinally relative to said yoke, said cam imparts rotational movement in said end, said end rotating said pin and said fixed quadrant, thereby engaging and disengaging rail welding cooling blocks from said rail ends. 23. The weld containment apparatus of claim 21 further comprising: said cam end being formed and arranged with between about 15 to 30 degrees twist in three quarters of one inch travel; said cam being formed and arranged with between about 15 to 30 degrees twist in three quarters of one inch travel. 24. A rail restraining, apparatus for enabling the joining of a first rail end and a second rail end, each end being formed in a sectional profile with a rail base, a rail web and a rail head, said apparatus comprising: a first frame for supporting a clamp and adapted to support a weld containment apparatus and further adapted for aligning a welding head; said clamp adapted for restraining the first and second ends; said first frame having a fixed downwardly depending arm and a movable downwardly depending arm spaced therefrom defining a rail receiving space therebetween; said movable arm is eccentrically pivoted on said frame to enable capturing of a rail in said space; said movable arm being pivoted about a first pivot and a clamping force being applied to and released from a second pivot displaced from said first pivot; said frame supporting a third pivot and said third pivot connecting with a link to said second pivot whereby an actuating force applied to said link transmits said clamping force through said link. 25. The rail restraint of claim 24 further comprising: said link being a scissors link; said scissors link having a fourth pivot joining a first part connected to said third pivot and a second part connected to said second pivot, said actuating force being applied at said fourth pivot. 26. The rail restraint of claim 25 further comprising: said clamp being a first clamp, said first clamp being disposed adjacent a first end of said frame; said frame having a second clamp disposed at a second end of said frame, said second end being opposite said first end; said second clamp being in form and operation analogous to said first clamp. 27. The rail restraint of claim 24 further comprising: said arm having an inverted L shape with said first pivot being located proximate the end of the short leg of the L the second pivot being located proximate the intersection of the short leg of the L and the long leg of the L and a clamping pad being located at the end of the long leg of the L. 28. The rail restraint of claim 27 further comprising: said actuating force being applied to said link by force application means for imparting force acting between a mounting pin and said fourth pivot. 29. The rail restraint of claim 28 further comprising: said clamp being a first clamp, said first clamp being disposed adjacent a first end of said frame; said frame having a second clamp disposed at a second end of said frame, said second end being opposite said first end; said second clamp being in form and operation analogous to said first clamp. 30. A rail weld delivery apparatus for enabling the joining of a first rail end and a second rail end, each end being formed in a sectional profile with a rail base, a rail web and a rail head, said apparatus comprising: a mobile weld delivery unit delivering an automated welder having a welder head proximate said ends so that a weld can be made joining said ends; said mobile weld delivery unit having a vehicle body and a welder; said welder being retractably and deployably carried in said body; said welder being automatically controlled by a controller, said controller calibrating the operation of said weld relative to the location of said rails; said weld operation calibration being performed based on touch sensing members located on said rail restraint; said vehicle having a longitudinal axis; said welder and controller coacting with a robot device to position a welder head based on said calibrated reference; said robot device having a base and a main axis, said main axis being aligned with the vehicle longitudinal axis; said weld delivery unit including an induction heater for preheating said rails prior to welding. 