A control system for optimizing the performance of a vehicle suspension system by controlling the damping factor of one or more shock absorbers is described. The control system uses a fitness (performance) function that is based on the physical laws of minimum entropy. The control system uses a fuzzy neural network that is trained by a genetic analyzer. The genetic analyzer uses a fitness function that maximizes information while minimizing entropy production. The fitness function uses a difference between the time differential of entropy from a control signal produced in a learning control module and the time differential of the entropy calculated by a model of the suspension system that uses the control signal as an input The entropy calculation is based on a dynamic model of an equation of motion for the suspension system such that the suspension system is treated as an open dynamic system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An optimization control method for a shock absorber comprising the steps of: obtaining a difference between a time differential of entropy inside said shock absorber and a time differential of entropy given to said shock absorber from a control unit that controls said shock absorber; and optimizing at least one control parameter of said control unit by using a genetic algorithm, said genetic algorithm using said difference as a performance function. 2. The optimization control method of claim 1, wherein said time differential of said step of optimizing reduces an entropy given to said shock absorber from said control unit. 3. The optimization control method of claim 1, wherein said control unit comprises a fuzzy neural network, and wherein a value of a coupling coefficient for a fuzzy rule is optimized by using said genetic algorithm. 4. The optimization control method of claim 1, wherein said control unit comprises a learning control module and an actual control module, said method further including the steps of optimizing a control parameter based on said genetic algorithm by using said performance function, determining said control parameter of said actual control module based on said control parameter and controlling said shock absorber using said actual control module. 5. The optimization control method of claim 4, wherein optimization of said learning control unit is performed using a simulation model, said simulation model based on a kinetic model of a vehicle suspension system. 6. The optimization control method of claim 4, wherein said shock absorber is arranged to alter a damping force by altering a cross-sectional area of an oil passage, and said control unit controls a throttle valve to thereby adjust said cross-sectional area of said oil passage. 