A method for evaluating a test fluid as a fabric care composition or as a component thereof The method includes providing a test sheet of fabric comprising a plurality of test regions and simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid. The method further includes screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a fabric property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for evaluating a test fluid as a fabric-care composition or as a component thereof, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of fabric comprising a plurality of test regions; simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid; and screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a fabric property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein two or more test sheets of fabric are provided, each of the two or more test sheets of fabric comprising a plurality of test regions. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein two or more test sheets of fabric are provided, each of the two or more test sheets of fabric comprising a plurality of test regions, at least two of the two or more test sheets of fabric being different from each other. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of test regions of the test sheet of fabric are substantially isolated from each other. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of test regions are screened for a fabric property of interest. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the contacted test fluids are screened for a fabric property of interest. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the test sheet of fabric is woven. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the test sheet of fabric is non-woven. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the test fluid is a fabric-care composition. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the test fluid comprises one or more components selected from the group consisting of polymers, surfactants, dyes, bleaches, perfumes, buffers, electrolytes, builders, sequestering agents, and flame retardants. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the test fluid comprises a polymer. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the different test fluids comprise a polymer component, the polymer component varying between different test fluids with respect to composition, hydrophilicity, molecular weight, or molecular weight distribution. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the fabric property of interest is selected from the group consisting of color fastness, polymer adsorption, soil release, stain release, dye retention, dye transfer, soil redeposition, abrasion resistance, fiber building, wrinkle reduction or prevention, static reduction or prevention, and texture. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the fabric property of interest is polymer adsorption. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of test regions are screened using a spectroscopic technique. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of test regions are eight or more test regions. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of test regions are simultaneously screened for the fabric property of interest. 18. A method for evaluating a test fluid as a fabric-care composition or a component thereof, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of fabric comprising a plurality of test regions, each of the plurality of test regions comprising a different fabric composition; simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a test fluid; and sceening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids fluids for a fabic property of interest to evalute the relative efficacy of the different fabic compositions. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the test sheet of fabric is a treated fabric array prepared by a method which includes simultaneously treating each of the plurality of test regions with a plurality of treatment fluids, the plurality of treatment fluids differing between the plurality of test regions. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein the different fabric compositions comprise one or more polymers adsorbed onto a fabric, the one or more polymers varying between the different fabric compositions. 21. A method for perparing a treated fabric array, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of fabic comprising a plurality of test regions; simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a plurality of treatment fluids, the plurality of treatment fluids differing between the plurality of test regions; and allowing one or more components of the plurality of treatment fluids to interact with the test sheet of fabric at the plurality of test regions. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the plurality of treatment fluids comprise a polymer component that differs between the different treatment fluids, and the polymer components interact with the test sheet of fabric. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein the plurality of treatment fluids comprise a polymer component, the polymer component varying between different treatment fluids with respect to composition, hydrophilicity, molecular weight, or molecular weight distribution, and the polymer components interact with the test sheet of fabric. 