An automated storage library structure, a structure of at least one robot operating within the automated storage library, and a method of connecting the robot to test equipment to facilitate testing is disclosed. The robot is operative to move about the automated storage library on a guide structure. The test equipment is disposed in a diagnostics center associated with the automated storage library. Communication between the robot and the diagnostics center may be provided through a main connector, disposed adjacent to the guide structure at a predetermined position and electrically connected to the diagnostics center, and a test connector mounted on the robot's chassis and electrically connected to the robot's electronics. A second robot may be used to support testing of a sick robot. Support includes pushing or pulling a sick robot to the mating connector, providing an alternate communication path between the sick robot and the diagnostics center exclusive of the main connector, and conducting tests on the sick robot in place of the diagnostics center. Test equipment at the diagnostics center may include optical test equipment as well as electrical.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated storage library comprising: a main connector; a diagnostic center connected to the main connector; a robot having a test connector, the robot being operative to mate the test connector and the main connector to enable the diagnostic center to test the robot; and a camera disposed near the main connector and connected to the diagnostic center to provide images of the robot to the diagnostic center. 2. An automated storage library comprising: a main connector; a diagnostic center connected to the main connector; a robot having a test connector, the robot being operative to mate the test connector and the main connector to enable the diagnostic center to test the robot; an optical sensor disposed on the robot; and an optical test pattern generator disposed near the main connector to test the optical sensor while the robot is adjacent to the main connector. 3. An automated storage library comprising: a main connector; a diagnostic center connected to the main connector; a robot having a test connector, the robot being operative to mate the test connector and the main connector to enable the diagnostic center to test the robot; a light source disposed on the robot; and a light sensor disposed near the main connector to test the light source while the robot is adjacent to the main connector. 4. An automated storage library comprising: a main connector; a diagnostic center connected to the main connector; a robot having a test connector, the robot being operative to mate the test connector and the main connector to enable the diagnostic center to test the robot; and a brake mechanism disposed adjacent to the main connector to hold the robot stationary. 5. A robot for use in an automated storage library having a guide structure, a main connector disposed at a predetermined position adjacent to the guide structure, and a diagnostic center connected to the main connector, the robot comprising: a chassis operative to move along the guide structure; and a test connector disposed on the chassis and oriented to mate with the main connector while the chassis is at approximately the predetermined position, the test connector being electrically connected to the chassis to enable the diagnostic center to test the robot. 6. The robot of claim 5 further comprising a secondary connector disposed on the chassis and oriented to mate with a second test connector of a second robot, the secondary connector being electrically connected to the chassis to enable inter-robot communications between the robot and the second robot while mated. 7. The robot of claim 6 further comprising a diagnostic circuit disposed on the chassis and operative to test the second robot while mated. 8. The robot of claim 6 further comprising a switching matrix connected between the test connector and the secondary connector to enable feed-through communications between the test connector and the secondary connector. 9. The robot of claim 6 further comprising a transceiver disposed on the chassis and capable of communicating with the diagnostic center to enable the diagnostic center to test the second robot through the transceiver while the robot and the second robot are mated. 10. The robot of claim 5 further comprising a coupler disposed on the chassis to physically connect the robot to a second robot. 11. A method of testing a robot, wherein the robot has a test connector, and a diagnostic center is connected to a main connector, the method comprising: moving the robot toward the main connector to mate the test connector and the main connector; and testing the robot with the diagnostic center through the main connector and the test connector. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the robot has a secondary connector, the method further comprising: providing a second robot having a second test connector; and mating the secondary connector and the second test connector to enable inter-robot communications between the robot and the second robot. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising: linking the test connector of the robot and the secondary connector of the robot together electrically; and testing the second robot with the diagnostic center through the robot. 14. The method of claim 11 further comprising providing a second robot, and wherein moving the robot toward the main connector includes propelling the robot with the second robot toward the main connector. 15. A method of testing a first robot, wherein the first robot has a first connector, and a second robot has a second connector, the method comprising: relatively moving the first robot and the second robot toward each other to mate the first connector and the second connector; and testing the first robot through the first connector and the second connector. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein relatively moving the first robot and the second robot toward each other comprises moving the first robot toward the second robot and the second robot remaining stationary. 17. The method of claim 15 further comprising moving the first robot and the second robot in tandem while testing the first robot to enable the second robot to perform other tasks. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein testing the first robot comprises testing the first robot with the second robot. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising reporting a test result from the second robot to a diagnostic center in response to testing the first robot with the second robot. 20. The method of claim 15 wherein the second robot has a transceiver capable of communicating with a diagnostic center, the method further comprising: establishing communications between the transceiver and the diagnostic center; and testing the first robot with the diagnostic center through the transceiver of the second robot. 