A method and system, employed in combination with a three-dimensional ultrasonographic imaging system, for assisting and placing at least one medical instrument into a prostate during a percutaneous prostrate therapeutic procedure. A process means for determining the spatial relationship between three-dimensional ultrasonographic images of the prostate generated via the transrectal transducer and a reference means. In addition, the method and system assists in guiding and placement of the medical instrument into a target location in the prostate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method employing a three-dimensional ultrasonographic imaging system for assisting and guiding the placement of at least one medical instrument in a prostate during a prostate therapeutic procedure, comprising the steps of: i) positioning a reference means relative to a ultrasonographic transducer in a region proximal a site on a patient which facilitates access to the prostate; ii) minimizing relative movement between the reference means and the site; iii) referencing the reference means to the three-dimensional ultrasonographic imaging system to determine the spatial relationship therebetween; iv) obtaining a three-dimensional image of the prostate; v) via a processing means, generating a positioning image by superimposing an image of the reference means over the three-dimensional image; vi) from the positioning image, selecting a target location within the prostate where the at least one medical instrument is to be placed; vii) from the positioning image, determining an insertion path to the target location and determining placement coordinates from the image; and, viii) placing the at least one medical instrument into the prostate along the insertion path via the placement coordinates determined from the positioning image. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein, steps i) through viii) are repeated for a plurality of medical instruments. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein, the method includes an additional step, concurrent with steps vi) and vii), of indicating and inputting to the processing means, via a graphical user interface, the target location and insertion path over the positioning image. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the method includes a further step, concurrent with step viii), of monitoring placement of the at least one medical instrument along the insertion path to the target location, via the placement coordinates, with one or more images generated by the three-dimensional ultrasonographic imaging system. 5. A method of assisting placement of at least one surgical instrument in a prostate during a cryosurgical prostate therapeutic procedure, comprising the steps of: i) positioning a reference plate relative to a transrectal ultrasonographic transducer in a region proximal a site on a patient which facilitates access to the prostate; ii) securing the reference plate to minimize relative movement between the plate and the site; iii) referencing the reference plate with a processing means in communication with a three-dimensional ultrasonographic imaging system to determine the spatial relationship between the transrectal ultrasonographic transducer and the plate; iv) obtaining a three-dimensional image of the prostate; v) generating a positioning image by superimposing an image of the reference plate over the three-dimensional image; vi) from the positioning image, selecting a target location within the prostate where the at least one medical instrument is to be placed; vii) from the positioning image, determining a path to the target location via the image of the reference plate and determining placement coordinates from the positioning image; and, viii) placing the at least one surgical instrument into the prostate via the reference plate at the placement coordinates determined from the positioning image. 6. The method according to claim 5 wherein, steps i) through viii) are repeated for a plurality of medical instruments. 7. The method according to claim 5 wherein, the method includes an additional step, concurrent with steps vi) and vii), of indicating and inputting to the processing means, via a graphical user interface, the target location and insertion path over the positioning image. 8. The method according to claim 5 wherein the method includes a further step, concurrent with step viii), of monitoring placement of the at least one medical instrument along the insertion path to the target location, via the placement coordinates, with one or more images generated by the three-dimensional ultrasonographic imaging system. 9. A system, employed in combination with a three-dimensional ultrasonographic imaging system, for assisting in the placement of at least one medical instrument into a prostate comprising: a reference means; a mounting means for mounting the reference means in a predetermined relationship to a transrectal ultrasonographic transducer; the reference means including a plurality of apertures arranged in an predefined manner and sized to permit a medical instrument to pass therethrough; a processing means for determining the spatial relationship between a three dimensional ultrasonographic image of the prostate generated via the transrectal ultrasonographic transducer and the reference means; wherein the processing means merges a representation of the plurality of apertures with the three dimensional ultrasonographic image to assist in the placement of the at least one medical instrument in the prostate via an appropriate aperture. 10. A system according to claim 9 wherein the predefined manner of arranging the plurality of apertures forms a Cartesian coordinate grid. 11. A system according to claim 9 wherein the predefined manner of arranging the plurality of apertures is a polar coordinate grid. 12. A system according to claim 9 wherein the mounting means is attached between the transrectal ultrasonographic transducer and the reference means. 13. A system according to claim 9 wherein the reference means comprises a rectangular plate. 14. A system according to claim 9 wherein the plurality of apertures are provided with an index marking scheme to assist in the identification of placement coordinates and the selected aperture. 15. A system according to claim 9 wherein the mounting means includes a transverse adjustment means for adjusting the reference means transversely relative to a long axis passing through the transrectal ultrasonographic transducer. 16. A system according to claim 9 wherein the at least one medical instrument is a biopsy needle. 17. A system according to claim 9 wherein the at least one medical instrument is a guidance sheath. 18. A system according to claim 9 wherein the at least one medical instrument is a cryosurgical transducer. 19. A system according to claim 9 wherein the at least one medical instrument is a thermocouple device. 20. A system according to claim 9 wherein the processing means forms an integral portion of the three-dimensional imaging system. 21. A system according to claim 9 wherein the processing means is a stand-alone computer. 22. A system according to claim 9 wherein the processing means is a Macintosh workstation. 