The system processes one or more wafers from a FOUP to an ion processing chamber. A group of wafers from the FOUP is removed by a first end effector and loaded into a load lock through a lower door in an atmosphere opened position. The load lock is sealed, evacuated, and an upper door is opened to a vacuum opened position. A second end effector connected to a 3-axis robot moves one of the wafers from the load lock to the ion processing chamber. A wafer alignment robot can also be used. Wafers are sequentially processed from the load lock to the processing chamber until complete; and then the wafers within the load lock are sealed, pressurized, and moved back to the FOUP. A second load lock, and multiple FOUPs, are used to increase throughput.
Claims In view of the foregoing, what is claimed is: 1. A method for processing one or more wafers with a processing chamber, comprising the steps of: lowering a bottom load lock door of a load lock along a vertical axis and to an atmosphere opened position; horizontally loading one or more wafers into the load lock so that they are substantially centered about the vertical axis; sealing the load lock to a sealed position by raising the bottom load lock door along the vertical axis; evacuating the load lock; raising an upper load lock door of the load lock along the vertical axis and to a vacuum opened position; and horizontally transporting one or more of the wafers from the load lock and to the processing chamber. 2. A method of claim 1, wherein the step of loading one or more wafers comprises loading a group comprising one to twenty five wafers. 3. A method of claim 1, further comprising the step of removing the one or more wafers from a FOUP prior to the step of loading. 4. A method of claim 1, wherein the step of transporting further comprises utilizing a wafer alignment robot. 5. A method of claim 1, wherein the step of loading comprises loading into one of a plurality of similar load locks. 6. A method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of horizontally transporting a wafer from the processing chamber to the load lock and horizontally transporting another wafer from the load lock to the processing chamber. 7. A method of claim 1, further comprising the step of lowering the upper load lock door along the vertical axis to its sealed position by lowering the upper load lock door. 8. A method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of reloading a wafer from the processing chamber to the load lock, sealing the load lock by lowering the upper load lock door, repressurizing the load lock, lowering the first load lock door along the vertical axis, horizontally removing the wafer from the load lock and transporting the wafer to a FOUP. 9. A method of claim 1, wherein the step of transporting one of the wafers comprises utilizing a 3-axis robotic end effector. 10. A system for coupling wafers within FOUPs to a processing chamber, comprising: one or more FOUPs adjacent a robot track section; a vacuum robot section with one or more load locks adjacent the robot track section; each of the load locks having a lower load lock door and an upper load lock door, the lower load lock door being movable along a vertical axis between an atmosphere opened position and a first vacuum sealed position, the upper load lock door being movable along the vertical axis between a second vacuum sealed position and a vacuum opened position, the lower load lock door and the upper load lock door being substantially centered about the vertical axis; the robot track section constructed and arranged to move one or more wafers from one of the FOUPs into a load lock when the lower load lock door is in its atmosphere opened position; a processing chamber; and the vacuum robot section constructed and arranged to move one wafer from a load lock when the upper load lock door is in its vacuum opened position to the processing chamber. 11. A system of claim 10, the track section comprising a robot having a first end effector for removing and alternatively replacing wafers from and to one of the FOUPs. 12. A system of claim 10, the vacuum robot section comprising a robot having a second end effector for removing and alternatively replacing a wafer from and to a load lock. 13. A system of claim 10, further comprising a wafer alignment robot, the wafer alignment robot acting cooperatively with the vacuum robot section to move wafers between the processing chamber and a load lock. 14. A system of claim 10, further comprising between about one and twenty-five wafers within at least one of the FOUPs. 15. A load lock for a wafer processing system, comprising: a first load lock door; a second load lock door; and an interior chamber for containing a group of wafers; the first load lock door being substantially centered about a vertical axis and being movable along the vertical axis between a first sealed position and an atmosphere opened position; the second load lock door being substantially centered about the vertical axis and being movable along the vertical axis between a second sealed position and a vacuum opened position; the load lock being vacuum tight when the first and second load lock doors are in the first and second sealed positions so as to separately evacuate the interior chamber; wherein one or more wafers may be loaded into, or removed from, the interior chamber when the first load lock door is in the atmosphere opened position; and wherein at least one wafer may be loaded into, or removed from, the interior chamber when the second load lock door is in the vacuum opened position. 16. A method of claim 1, wherein the step of lowering a bottom load lock door comprises lowering a bottom load lock door that is substantially centered about the vertical axis. 17. A method of claim 16, wherein the step of lowering a bottom load lock door comprises lowering a substantially circular load lock door. 18. A method of claim 16, wherein the step of lowering a bottom load lock door comprises lowering a substantially circular load lock door integral with the bottom of a substantially cylindrical load lock. 19. A method of claim 1, wherein the step of raising an upper load lock door comprises raising an upper load lock door that is substantially centered about the vertical axis. 20. A method of claim 19, wherein the step of raising an upper load lock door comprises raising a substantially circular load lock door. 21. A method of claim 19, wherein the step of raising an upper load lock door comprises raising a substantially circular load lock door integral with the top of a substantially cylindrical load lock. 22. A system of claim 10, wherein the load lock doors have a substantially circular shape perpendicular to the vertical axis. 23. A system of claim 22, wherein each load lock has a top, and an upper load lock door is integral with the top of the load lock. 24. A system of claim 22, wherein each load lock has a bottom, and a lower load lock door is integral with the bottom of the load lock. 25. A system of claim 10, wherein the load locks have a substantially cylindrical shape. 26. A system of claim 15, wherein the load lock doors have a substantially circular shape perpendicular to the vertical axis. 27. A system of claim 26, wherein the load lock has a substantially cylindrical shape with a first end and a second end arranged along the vertical axis, the first load lock door is integral with the first end, and the second load lock door is integral with the second end. 