The present invention provides an integrated, fully automated, high-throughput system for two-dimensional electrophoresis comprised of gel-making machines, gel processing machines, gel compositions and geometries, gel handling systems, sample preparation systems, software and methods. The system is capable of continuous operation at high-throughput to allow construction of large quantitative data sets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for preparing a sample protein solution for electrophoresis analysis, said method comprising the steps of: a) preparing a column comprising a first end, a second end and a size exclusion material wherein said size exclusion material is particulate and excludes proteins but not solvents, by equilibrating said size exclusion material with a first solvent; b) introducing a reagent into said first end of said column to create a reagent zone, wherein said reagent zone has a sufficient volume, length and size to allow a reaction to occur while proteins are passing through the reagent zone; c) introducing a protein sample into said first end of said column to create a sample zone, wherein said sample contains a plurality of protein molecules; d) allowing said protein molecules to flow through said column, wherein said protein molecules pass through said reagent zone, and pass into said first solvent while in said column; and e) collecting said protein molecules from said second end of said column. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said protein molecules comprise a plurality of sulfhydryl groups which chemically react with said reagent. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein said sulfhydryl groups covalently react with a zwitterionic or uncharged alkylating agent, preventing oxidation of said sulfhydryl groups, and preserving an isoelectric point of each of said protein molecules. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein said reagent is S+2-amino-5-iodacetamido-pentanoic acid, iodoacetamide, iodoacetic acid, N-ethyl maleimide or a combination thereof. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein said sulfhydryl groups are reacted stoichiometrically with a negatively-charged alkylating reagent, thereby shifting the isoelectric points of basic proteins towards neutrality. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein said protein molecules react with one or more fluorescent or optically absorbing dyes in said reagent zone, thereby said protein molecules are rendered detectable by an optical means during and after subsequent separation of said protein molecules. 