A placement robot includes a micro alignment pick-up head (MAP) to hold a component for placement on a substrate. The MAP includes a retention member that may be a vacuum pick-up nozzle for component retention and has two main parts: an upper body and a lower body. The upper body and the lower body are separated from one another by an air bearing which provides near-frictionless performance and allows the lower body a range of motion relative to the upper body. The MAP is either "attached" or "loose." Micropositioning actuators provide fine positioning in the X and/or Y directions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pick-up head for a placement machine, the pick-up head comprising: an upper body; a lower body; a first air bearing disposed between a downward facing surface of said upper body and an upward facing surface of said lower body; a first micropositioning actuator mounted to said upper body and positioned to move said lower body in a first direction relative to said upper body when said first micropositioning actuator is selectively activated; biasing means for urging said lower body against said upper body so that when said air bearing is depressurized, said upper body and said lower body are in contact; and a gripper for gripping a component, the gripper fixed with said lower body. 2. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said gripper is a vacuum gripper. 3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2, further comprising: a vacuum supply aperture disposed through said upper body and said lower body and communicating with said vacuum gripper. 4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3, wherein said biasing means is a coil-type spring. 5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3, wherein said biasing means is an elastic material. 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, further comprising: a second micropositioning actuator mounted to said upper body and positioned to move said lower body in a second direction relative to said upper body when said second micropositioning actuator is selectively activated. 7. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said upper body extends around and beneath at least a portion of said lower body. 8. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7, further comprising: a second air bearing disposed between an upward facing surface of said upper body and a downward facing surface of said lower body. 9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said biasing means is a coil-type spring. 10. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said biasing means is an elastic material. 11. A pick-up head for a placement machine, the pick-up head comprising: an upper body; a lower body wherein said upper body extends around and beneath at least a portion of said lower body; a first air bearing disposed between a downward facing surface of said upper body and an upward facing surface of said lower body; a second air bearing disposed between an upward facing surface of said upper body and a downward facing surface of said lower body; biasing means for urging said lower body up against said upper body so that when said first and second air bearings are depressurized, said upper body and said lower body are in contact; and a gripper for gripping a component, the gripper fixed with said lower body. 12. An apparatus in accordance with claim 11, further comprising: a first micropositioning actuator mounted to said upper body and positioned to move said lower body in a first direction relative to said upper body. 13. An apparatus in accordance with claim 12, further comprising: a second micropositioning actuator mounted to said upper body and positioned to move said lower body in a second direction relative to said upper body. 14. A robotic placement machine for placing a component relative to a substrate, the robotic placement machine comprising: a pick-up head, the pick-up head being positionable in one or more directions to a first placement resolution, the pick-up head including an upper body; a lower body; a first air bearing disposed between a downward facing surface of said upper body and an upward facing surface of said lower body; a first micropositioning actuator mounted to said upper body and positioned to move said lower body in a first direction relative to said upper body when said first micropositioning actuator is selectively activated, the first micropositioner being positionable along said first direction to a second placement resolution, said second placement resolution being a higher placement resolution than said first placement resolution; biasing means for urging said lower body against said upper body so that when said air bearing is depressurized, said upper body and said lower body are in contact; and a gripper for gripping a component, the gripper fixed with said lower body. 15. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14 wherein said gripper is a vacuum gripper. 16. An apparatus in accordance with claim 15, further comprising: a vacuum supply aperture disposed through said upper body and said lower body and communicating with said vacuum gripper. 17. An apparatus in accordance with claim 16, wherein said biasing means is a coil-type spring. 18. An apparatus in accordance with claim 16, wherein said biasing means is an elastic material. 19. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14, further comprising: a second micropositioning actuator mounted to said upper body and positioned to move said lower body in a second direction relative to said upper body when said second micropositioning actuator is selectively activated, the second micropositioner being positionable along said second direction to a third placement resolution, said third placement resolution being a higher placement resolution than said first placement resolution. 20. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14, wherein: said upper body extends around and beneath at least a portion of said lower body. 21. An apparatus in accordance with claim 20, further comprising: a second air bearing disposed between an upward facing surface of said upper body and a downward facing surface of said lower body. 22. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14, wherein said biasing means is a coil-type spring. 23. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14, wherein said biasing means is an elastic material. 24. A robotic placement machine for placing a component relative to a substrate, the robotic placement machine comprising: a pick-up head, the pick-up head being positionable in one or more directions to a first placement resolution, the pick-up head including an upper body; a lower body wherein said upper body extends around and beneath at least a portion of said lower body; a first air bearing disposed between a downward facing surface of said upper body and an upward facing surface of said lower body; a second air bearing disposed between an upward facing surface of said upper body and a downward facing surface of said lower body; biasing means for urging said lower body up against said upper body so that when said first and second air bearings are depressurized, said upper body and said lower body are in contact; and a gripper for gripping a component, the gripper fixed with said lower body. 25. An apparatus in accordance with claim 24, further comprising: a first micropositioning actuator mounted to said upper body and positioned to move said lower body in a first direction relative to said upper body, the first micropositioner being positionable along said first direction to a second placement resolution, said second placement resolution being a higher placement resolution than said first placement resolution. 26. An apparatus in accordance with claim 25, further comprising: a second micropositioning actuator mounted to said upper body and positioned to move said lower body in a second direction relative to said upper body, the second micropositioner being positionable along said second direction to a third placement resolution, said third placement resolution being a higher placement resolution than said first placement resolution. 27. A method for positioning a component at a selected location relative to a substrate, the method comprising: picking up a component with a pick-up head having an upper body, a lower body and a first air bearing disposed between said upper body and said lower body, the pick-up head being positionable to within a first resolution accuracy of the selected location by a first mechanism; moving the component relative to the substrate to a first position over the substrate disposed within a first resolution accuracy of the selected location; pressurizing the air bearing; offsetting the lower body by a distance necessary to position the component relative to the substrate to a second position over the substrate disposed within a second resolution accuracy of the selected location, the second resolution accuracy being less than the first resolution accuracy; and depressurizing the air bearing. 28. A method in accordance with claim 27, further comprising: bringing the component into contact with the substrate at a location within the second resolution accuracy of the selected location. 29. A method in accordance with claim 28, wherein said picking up is performed with a vacuum nozzle. 30. A method in accordance with claim 28, further comprising: releasing the component after brining it into contact with the substrate. 31. A method in accordance with claim 30, wherein said picking up is performed by applying vacuum to a vacuum nozzle and said releasing is performed by cutting vacuum to said nozzle. 32. A method for positioning a component at a selected location relative to a substrate, the method comprising: means for picking up a component with a pick-up head having an upper body, a lower body and a first air bearing disposed between said upper body and said lower body, the pick-up head being positionable to within a first resolution accuracy of the selected location by a first mechanism; means for moving the component relative to the substrate to a first position over the substrate disposed within a first resolution accuracy of the selected location; means for pressurizing the air bearing; means for offsetting the lower body by a distance necessary to position the component relative to the substrate to a second position over the substrate disposed within a second resolution accuracy of the selected location, the second resolution accuracy being less than the first resolution accuracy; and means for depressurizing the air bearing. 33. An apparatus in accordance with claim 32, further comprising: means for bringing the component into contact with the substrate at a location within the second resolution accuracy of the selected location. 34. An apparatus in accordance with claim 33, wherein said means for picking up includes a vacuum nozzle. 35. An apparatus in accordance with claim 33, further comprising: means for releasing the component after bringing it into contact with the substrate. 36. An apparatus in accordance with claim 35, wherein said means for picking up includes means for applying vacuum to a vacuum nozzle and said means for releasing includes means for cutting vacuum to said nozzle. 