A method is provided for optimizing the operation of an equipment control system having an operating unit. In the method, an operating entity operable to perform a specific function is automatically added to the operating unit when such function is required of the operating unit. When the specific function of the operating entity is no longer required, the operating entity is automatically deleted from the operating unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An equipment control system comprising: a computer readable storage medium; and a primary server resident on the computer readable storage medium, the primary server associated with at least one device, and operable to: monitor the workload of the primary server, initiate at least one secondary server operable to perform at least a subset of the functionality provided by the primary server when the workload of the primary server exceeds a first threshold, activate a first macro that may not be deleted whenever the primary server is running, activate a second macro that may be deleted when the second macro is required, and deactivate the second macro when the second macro is no longer required. 2. The equipment control system of claim 1, wherein the primary server is further operable to shut down the secondary server when the workload of the primary server drops below a second threshold. 3. The equipment control system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of additional primary servers, each associated with at least one device, and each of the plurality of additional primary servers operable to: monitor its workload, initiate at least one secondary server operable to perform at least a subset of the functionality provided by the primary server when its workload exceeds a first threshold, and serve a plurality of additional devices. 4. The equipment control system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of additional secondary servers operable to perform at least a subset of the functionality provided by the primary server when its workload exceeds a first threshold. 5. The equipment of control system of claim 1, wherein the workload of the primary server exceeds the first threshold when a predetermined number of messages are waiting to be processed. 6. The equipment control system of claim 1, wherein the workload of the primary server exceeds the first threshold when the primary server process is unavailable for processing. 7. The equipment control system of claim 1, wherein the workload of the primary server drops below a second threshold when the primary server process is not waiting on the secondary server to complete performing. 8. The equipment control system of claim 1, wherein the workload of the primary server drops below a second threshold when the secondary server has completed performing. 9. The equipment control system of claim 1, wherein the second macro is required when the primary server requires processing in addition to the functionality provided by the first macro. 10. The equipment control system of claim 1, wherein the primary server is further operable to activate the second macro on the secondary server when the workload of the primary server exceeds the first threshold. 11. The equipment control system of claim 1, wherein the primary server is further operable to deactivate the second macro by terminating processing of the second macro, and to delete the second macro. 12. The equipment control system of claim 1, wherein the primary server is further operable to shut down the secondary server after deleting the second macro. 13. A method for optimizing the operation of an equipment control system, comprising: activating a primary server resident on a computer readable storage medium, the primary server associated with at least one device; monitoring the workload of the primary server; initiating at least one secondary server operable to perform at least a subset of the functionality provided by the primary server when the workload of the primary server exceeds a first threshold; activating, using the primary server, a first macro that may not be deleted whenever the primary server is running; activating, using the primary server, a second macro that may be deleted, the second macro operable to perform at least a subset of the functionality provided by the first macro when the second macro is required; and deactivating the second macro using the primary server when the second macro is no longer required. 14. A method of claim 13, wherein activating a primary server comprises loading the primary server into memory and starting its execution. 15. A method of claim 13, further comprising shutting down the secondary server when the workload of the primary server drops below a second threshold. 16. A method of claim 13, further comprising activating the second macro on the secondary server when the workload of the primary server exceeds the first threshold. 