The present invention provides a system and method for attaching a device to an inside wall of an enclosure. The device is removably attached to a positioner. Where the device includes a metal substance, it may be attached to the positioner by a magnet affixed to the positioner, for example. A first motor-operated moving device moves the enclosure such that the device abuts an inside wall of the enclosure. A second motor-operated moving device, for example a robot, then attaches the device to the inside wall of the enclosure. Where the enclosure and the device are composed of metal, the two may be welded together. In this instance, the first motor-operated moving device may be a non-robotic, motor-operated moving device that provides a ground path for the weld.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for attaching a device to an inside wall of an enclosure, comprising the acts of: removably attaching said device to a positioner; moving said enclosure about said device such that said device abuts said inside wall of said enclosure; and attaching said device to said inside wall of said enclosure. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said act of attaching is performed by a robot. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said device includes a metal substance, and wherein said enclosure includes a metal substance, and further wherein said act of removably attaching includes using a magnet. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said robot attaches said device by welding. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said act of moving is performed by a robot. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said positioner is a non-robotic, motor-operated moving device that provides a ground path. 7. A system for attaching a device to an inside wall of an enclosure, comprising: a positioner that holds said device; a first motor-operated moving device that moves said enclosure such that said device abuts an inside wall of said enclosure; and a second motor-operated moving device that attaches said device to said inside wall of said enclosure. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said second motor-operated moving device is a robot. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said device includes a metal substance, and wherein said enclosure includes a metal substance, and further wherein said positioner includes a magnet that removably holds said device. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said robot welds said device to said inside wall of said enclosure. 11. The system of claim 7, wherein said first motor-operated moving device is a robot. 12. The system of claim 7, wherein said positioner is non-robotic, motor-operated moving device that provides a ground path. 13. A system comprising a first motor-operated moving device that moves an enclosure about a device until said device abuts said inside wall of said enclosure, said system further comprising a robot that attaches said device to said inside wall of said enclosure. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said device is removably attached to an automated positioner. 15. A system that welds a metal device to an inside wall of a metal enclosure, wherein said device is removably attached to a positioner using a magnet, said positioner providing a ground path, said system further comprising a motor-operated moving device that moves said enclosure such that said device abuts an inside wall of said enclosure, and a robot that attaches said device to said inside wall of said enclosure. 