A cluster tool for providing plasma treatment to a substrate includes a plurality of chambers to provide plasma treatment to the substrate. At least one of the chambers performs ion implantation to the substrate. A dielectric window is provided on a surface of the chamber which performs ion implantation to the substrate. A plasma source is provided external to the chamber which performs ion implantation to the substrate. The plasma source is at a distance proximate enough to provide a plasma within the chamber.
Claims I claim: 1. A cluster tool for providing plasma treatment to a substrate, comprising: a plurality of chambers, wherein at least one of said chambers performs ion implantation to said substrate; a dielectric window provided on a surface of said at least one chamber which performs ion implantation to said substrate, said dielectric window having a first side and second side, said first side of dielectric window facing the outside of said at least one chamber and said second side of dielectric window facing the inside of said at least one chamber; a plasma source provided external to said at least one chamber which performs ion implantation to said substrate, said plasma source facing said first side of said dielectric window and being at a distance proximate enough to provide a plasma within said at least one chamber, said plasma source including: an antenna facing said first side of said dielectric window, said antenna being coupled to an rf power source to generate said plasma within said at least one chamber, and a shield having an opening that faces said first side of said dielectric window, said shield cooperating with said first side of said dielectric window to enclose said antenna; and a transporter for inserting said substrate into at least one of said plurality of chambers to expose said substrate to said plasma therein and then removing said substrate therefrom. 2. The cluster tool of claim 1 wherein said transport element includes a robotic arm. 3. The cluster tool of claim 1 further comprising a bias power which is electrically coupled to said transporter to provide a bias voltage to said substrate while said substrate is being exposed to said plasma. 4. The cluster tool of claim 1 wherein said plasma source is a pulsed plasma source. 5. The cluster tool of claim 1 wherein said plasma source is a steady-state plasma source. 6. The cluster tool of claim 1 wherein one or more of said plurality of chambers includes a plurality of dielectric windows. 7. The cluster tool of claim 6 wherein a plurality of plasma sources are provided facing said plurality of dielectric windows. 8. The cluster tool of claim 7 wherein said each of said plurality of plasma sources is separately coupled to a corresponding rf generator. 9. The cluster tool of claim 8 wherein each of said plurality of plasma sources is configured, so that each plasma source may be tuned in order to provide a plasma of the shape and uniformity desired for a particular process. 10. The cluster tool of claim 1 wherein said plasma source comprises an antennae. 11. The cluster tool of claim 1 wherein said antennae is helical. 12. The cluster tool of claim 1 wherein said dielectric windows are constructed of quartz. 13. The cluster tool of claim 1 wherein said dielectric windows are constructed of glass. 14. The cluster tool of claim 1 wherein said dielectric window is used as a viewing port into said chamber. 15. The cluster tool of claim 1 wherein said plasma source located external to said chamber allows said plasma source to be replaced without disturbing the vacuum within said chamber. 16. A cluster tool for performing plasma treatment on a substrate, comprising: a loading area; a holder wherein a substrate is loaded onto said holder in said loading area; a plurality of chambers, wherein at least one of said chambers performs ion implantation to said substrate; a dielectric window provided on a surface of said at least one chamber which performs ion implantation to said substrate; a plasma source provided external to said at least one chamber which performs ion implantation to said substrate, said plasma source being at a distance proximate enough to provide a plasma within said at least one chamber, said plasma source including: an antenna facing said dielectric window, said antenna being coupled to an rf power source to generate said plasma within said at least one chamber, and a shield having an opening that faces said dielectric window, said shield cooperating with said dielectric window to enclose said antenna; and a load lock configured to isolate the environment within one or more of said plurality of chambers, so that said substrate can be treated with a plasma; and a transport device for moving said holder and said substrate from said loading area into and out of said chamber. 17. The cluster tool of claim 16 wherein said transport device comprises a robotic arm. 18. The cluster tool of claim 16 wherein said transport device is coupled to a power supply to bias said substrate. 19. The cluster tool of claim 16 wherein said holder comprises quartz. 20. A cluster tool for performing plasma treatment on a substrate, comprising: a plurality of chambers, wherein at least one of said chambers performs ion implantation to said substrate; a dielectric window provided on a surface of said at least one chamber which performs ion implantation to said substrate, said dielectric window having an aperture therethrough to define an input port to said at least one chamber; a plasma source provided external source being at a distance proximate enough to provide a plasma within said at least one chamber, wherein said plasma source includes: a shield having an opening at a first end and an aperture at a second end, wherein said opening faces said dielectric window, and an rf antenna enclosed within said shield and said dielectric window to provide said plasma within said at least one chamber; and a transport device for inserting said substrate into at least one of said plurality of chambers to expose said substrate to said plasma therein and then removing said substrate therefrom. 21. The cluster tool of claim 20, further comprising: a tube extending through said shield from said aperture to said opening and coupled to said input port to provide a process gas into said at least one chamber. 