A wafer processing apparatus includes a processing chamber having a top chamber portion and a bottom chamber portion, respectively. The apparatus further includes an annular ring valve associated with one of the top chamber portion and the bottom chamber portion which is operable to close the processing chamber for processing in a first position and open the processing chamber for access thereto in a second position. The ring valve, in the first position, provides a substantially uniform surface about an inner periphery of the closed processing chamber, and thereby facilitates uniform processing conditions. A method of accessing a wafer processing apparatus is also disclosed and includes moving an annular ring valve within a processing chamber between two positions. In the first position the annular ring valve sealingly blocks an access port of the processing chamber and thereby prohibits access thereto, and in the second position the annular ring valve does not block the access port, and permits access to the processing chamber. The annular ring valve has a substantially uniform inner peripheral surface, and thereby facilitates uniform processing conditions within the processing chamber when in the first position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer processing apparatus, comprising: a processing chamber having a top chamber portion and a bottom chamber portion, respectively; and an annular ring valve associated with one of the top chamber portion and the bottom chamber portion, the ring valve operable to open the processing chamber for access thereto in a first position, and close the processing chamber for processing in a second position, wherein the ring valve in the second position provides a substantially uniform surface about an inner periphery of the closed processing chamber, thereby facilitating uniformity in processing conditions therein. 2. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the ring valve in the second position extends from the one of the top chamber portion and the bottom chamber portion associated therewith and abuts the other of the top chamber portion and the bottom chamber portion, thereby coupling the top and bottom chamber portions together and substantially sealing the processing chamber from external conditions. 3. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the ring valve in the first position is retracted with respect to the other of the top chamber portion and the bottom chamber portion, thereby decoupling at least a portion of the top and bottom chamber portions corresponding to an access port for transfer or retrieval of a wafer to or from the processing chamber, respectively. 4. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an actuation member operatively coupled to the ring valve, wherein the actuation member is operable to selectively position the ring valve in the first and second positions, respectively. 5. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the ring valve comprises a material which is substantially the same as a top and bottom chamber portion material, thereby providing a substantially uniform interior surface about the processing chamber over variations in interior chamber processing conditions. 6. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing chamber includes an access port and the wafer processing apparatus further comprises: a transfer chamber operatively coupled to the processing chamber via the access port; and a load lock chamber operatively coupled to the transfer chamber, the load lock chamber including a load lock cover operable to move between two positions, wherein a first position isolates a portion of the load lock chamber from the transfer chamber, thereby allowing a pressure in the portion of the load lock chamber to differ from a pressure in the transfer chamber during a wafer transfer from an ambient pressure environment external the load lock chamber to the isolated portion of the load lock chamber, and wherein a second position of the load lock cover brings the portion of the load lock chamber into fluid communication with the transfer chamber for transfer of a wafer between the load lock chamber and the processing chamber. 7. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 6, further comprising a pump associated with the portion of the load lock chamber, wherein the pump is operable to reduce a pressure within the portion of the load lock chamber when the load lock cover is in the first position, thereby substantially matching a pressure in the portion of the load lock chamber with a pressure in the transfer chamber and the processing chamber. 8. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing chamber comprises an ion implantation processing chamber. 9. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processing chamber comprises a plasma immersion ion implantation processing chamber. 10. A wafer processing apparatus, comprising: a processing chamber having an access port for transferring a wafer thereto or retrieving a wafer therefrom; and a ring valve within the processing chamber, the ring valve operable to move between two positions, wherein the ring valve in the first position opens the access port for access to the processing chamber, and the ring valve in the second position closes the access port. 11. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 10, wherein the ring valve has an annular shape with a substantially uniform inner peripheral surface. 12. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 11, wherein the ring valve in the second position is positioned within the processing chamber to sealingly engage and thereby close the access port to prevent contamination of a wafer chamber processing environment, and wherein the annular ring valve provides a substantially uniform inner peripheral surface for the processing chamber thereat, thereby facilitating uniform processing conditions therein. 13. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 10, wherein a composition of the ring valve and the processing chamber is substantially the same. 14. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 10, wherein the processing chamber further comprises a top interior portion and a bottom interior portion annularly separated, thereby defining an annular spacing therebetween, and wherein the access port interfaces with a portion of the annular spacing to allow access to the processing chamber, and wherein the ring valve in the second position occupies the annular spacing, thereby coupling the top and bottom portions together by sealingly engaging the top and bottom portions, respectively. 15. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 14, wherein the bottom interior portion of the processing chamber includes an annular lip about an inner periphery thereof, and wherein the ring valve engages the annular lip in the first position. 16. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 10, further comprising an actuator operatively coupled to the ring valve, and operable to move the ring valve between the first and second positions, respectively. 17. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 16, wherein the actuator comprises one or more gear and screw assemblies, wherein the gear turns the screw which engages a bottom portion of the ring valve, and a turning of the screw adjusts a vertical position of the ring valve within the processing chamber. 18. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 10, further comprising: a transfer chamber coupled to the processing chamber via the access port; and a load lock chamber coupled to the transfer chamber, the load lock chamber including: an access port for receiving a wafer into the load lock chamber; and a selectively positionable isolation member within the load lock chamber, positionable between an isolation position and a non-isolation position, wherein in the isolation position the isolation member sealingly engages a portion of the load lock chamber associated with the load lock chamber access port, thereby permitting the transfer of a wafer to or from the load lock chamber via the load lock chamber access port without impacting processing conditions within the transfer chamber and the processing chamber, and wherein when the isolation member is in the non-isolation position the portion of the load lock chamber is in fluid communication with the transfer chamber. 19. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 18, further comprising an actuator operatively coupled to the isolation member, wherein the actuator is operable to selectively position the isolation member in the isolation position and the non-isolation position, respectively. 20. A method of accessing a wafer processing apparatus, comprising the steps of moving an annular ring valve within a processing chamber from a first position where the annular ring valve does not block access to an access port of the processing chamber, thereby permitting access thereto, to a second position where the annular ring valve sealingly blocks the access port, thereby prohibiting access to the processing chamber, wherein the annular ring valve has a substantially uniform inner peripheral surface, thereby facilitating uniform processing conditions within the processing chamber when in the second position. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of moving an annular ring valve comprises activating an actuator operatively coupled thereto, wherein the activated actuator exerts a force on the annular ring valve to move the ring valve from the first position to the second position. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein activating the actuator comprises turning one or more gears coupled to one or more screws, respectively, thereby rotating the screw, wherein the screw is coupled to the ring valve and the screw rotation alters a vertical position of the screw within the processing chamber, thereby altering a vertical position of the ring valve within the processing chamber. 23. The method of claim 20, further comprising the steps of transferring a wafer from a load lock chamber to the processing chamber through a transfer chamber. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising the steps of: transferring a wafer to the load lock chamber, wherein at least a portion of the load lock chamber containing the wafer is fluidly isolated from the transfer chamber; changing a pressure in the portion of the load lock chamber to substantially equalize the pressure therein with a pressure in the transfer chamber; bringing the portion of the load lock chamber in fluid communication with the transfer chamber; and transferring the wafer from the load lock chamber to the processing chamber via the transfer chamber. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of lowering a load lock cover over the portion of the load lock chamber containing the wafer to fluidly isolate the portion from the transfer chamber. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein changing the pressure in the portion of the load lock chamber comprises evacuating an ambient environment from the load lock chamber portion using a pump until a pressure in the load lock chamber portion substantially equalizes the pressure in the transfer chamber. 27. A method of transferring a wafer to a wafer processing apparatus containing a load lock chamber and a processing chamber, comprising the steps of: fluidly isolating a portion of the load lock chamber from the processing chamber; inserting a wafer from an external wafer location to the portion of the load lock chamber; equalizing a pressure between the portion of the load lock chamber and the processing chamber; bringing the portion of the load lock chamber into fluid communication with the processing chamber; transferring the wafer from the load lock chamber to the processing chamber; and fluidly sealing the processing chamber from the load lock chamber via an annular ring valve. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein fluidly isolating the portion of the load lock chamber from the processing chamber comprises moving a load lock chamber cover from an open position to a closed position, wherein the load lock chamber cover in the closed position sealingly engages the portion of the load lock chamber. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein bringing the portion of the load lock chamber into fluid communication with the processing chamber comprises moving the load lock chamber cover from the closed position to the open position. 30. The method of claim 27, wherein fluidly sealing the processing chamber from the load lock chamber comprises moving the annular ring valve within the processing chamber from a first position to a second position, wherein the first ring valve position defines an annular spacing between a top interior portion and a bottom interior portion of the processing chamber and the second ring valve position couples the top and bottom portions together. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the annular ring valve has a substantially uniform interior peripheral surface, thereby facilitating uniform processing conditions within the processing chamber. 32. A wafer processing apparatus, comprising: a processing chamber having an annularly separated top interior portion and a bottom interior portion, thereby defining an annular spacing therebetween; and an annular ring valve associated with one of the top interior portion and the bottom interior portion, the ring valve operable to open the processing chamber for access thereto in a first position and close the processing chamber for processing in a second position, wherein the ring valve is retracted from the annular spacing in the first position, thereby opening the processing chamber for access therethrough, and wherein the ring valve occupies the annular spacing in the second position, thereby coupling the top and bottom portions together by sealingly engaging the top and bottom portions, respectively, whereby a substantially uniform surface about an inner periphery of the closed processing chamber is provided, thereby facilitating uniformity in processing conditions therein. 33. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 32, wherein the ring valve in the second position extends from the one of the top chamber portion and the bottom chamber portion associated therewith and abuts the other of the top chamber portion and the bottom chamber portion, thereby coupling the top and bottom chamber portions together and substantially sealing the processing chamber from external conditions. 34. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 32, wherein the ring valve in the first position is retracted with respect to the other of the top chamber portion and the bottom chamber portion, thereby decoupling at least a portion of the top and bottom chamber portions corresponding to an access port for transfer or retrieval of a wafer to or from the processing chamber, respectively. 35. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 32, further comprising an actuation member operatively coupled to the ring valve, wherein the actuation member is operable to selectively position the ring valve in the first and second positions, respectively. 36. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 32, wherein the ring valve comprises a material which is substantially the same as a top and bottom chamber portion material, thereby providing a substantially uniform interior surface about the processing chamber over variations in interior chamber processing conditions. 37. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 32, wherein the processing chamber includes an access port and the wafer processing apparatus further comprises: a transfer chamber operatively coupled to the processing chamber via the access port; and a load lock chamber operatively coupled to the transfer chamber, the load lock chamber including a load lock cover operable to move between two positions, wherein a first position isolates a portion of the load lock chamber from the transfer chamber, thereby allowing a pressure in the portion of the load lock chamber to differ from a pressure in the transfer chamber during a wafer transfer from an ambient pressure environment external the load lock chamber to the isolated portion of the load lock chamber, and wherein a second position of the load lock cover brings the portion of the load lock chamber into fluid communication with the transfer chamber for transfer of a wafer between the load lock chamber and the processing chamber. 38. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 37, further comprising a pump associated with the portion of the load lock chamber, wherein the pump is operable to reduce a pressure within the portion of the load lock chamber when the load lock cover is in the first position, thereby substantially matching a pressure in the portion of the load lock chamber with a pressure in the transfer chamber and the processing chamber. 39. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 32, wherein the processing chamber comprises an ion implantation processing chamber. 40. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 39, wherein the processing chamber comprises a plasma immersion ion implantation processing chamber. 41. A wafer processing apparatus, comprising: a processing chamber having an access port for transferring a wafer thereto or retrieving a wafer therefrom; and a ring valve within the processing chamber, the ring valve operable to move between two positions, wherein the ring valve in the first position opens the access port for access to the processing chamber, and the ring valve in the second position is positioned to sealingly engage and thereby close the access port to prevent contamination of a wafer chamber processing environment, and wherein the ring valve has an annular shape with a substantially uniform inner peripheral surface, thereby providing a substantially uniform inner peripheral surface for the processing chamber thereat, thereby facilitating uniform processing conditions therein. 42. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 41, wherein a composition of the ring valve and the processing chamber is substantially the same. 43. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 41, wherein the processing chamber further comprises a top interior portion and a bottom interior portion annularly separated, thereby defining an annular spacing therebetween, and wherein the access port interfaces with a portion of the annular spacing to allow access to the processing chamber, and wherein the ring valve in the second position occupies the annular spacing, thereby coupling the top and bottom portions together by sealingly engaging the top and bottom portions, respectively. 44. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 43, wherein the bottom interior portion of the processing chamber includes an annular lip about an inner periphery thereof, and wherein the ring valve engages the annular lip in the first position. 45. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 41, further comprising an actuator operatively coupled to the ring valve, and operable to move the ring valve between the first and second positions, respectively. 46. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 45, wherein the actuator comprises one or more gear and screw assemblies, wherein the gear turns the screw which engages a bottom portion of the ring valve, and a turning of the screw adjusts a vertical position of the ring valve within the processing chamber. 47. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 41, further comprising: a transfer chamber coupled to the processing chamber via the access port; and a load lock chamber coupled to the transfer chamber, the load lock chamber comprising: an access port for receiving a wafer into the load lock chamber; and a selectively positionable isolation member within the load lock chamber, positionable between an isolation position and a non-isolation position, wherein in the isolation position the isolation member sealingly engages a portion of the load lock chamber associated with the load lock chamber access port, thereby permitting the transfer of a wafer to or from the load lock chamber via the load lock chamber access port without impacting processing conditions within the transfer chamber and the processing chamber, and wherein when the isolation member is in the non-isolation position the portion of the load lock chamber is in fluid communication with the transfer chamber, whereby the wafer can be transferred to the processing chamber. 48. The wafer processing apparatus of claim 47, further comprising an actuator operatively coupled to the isolation member, wherein the actuator is operable to selectively position the isolation member in the isolation position and the non-isolation position, respectively. 49. A method of accessing a wafer processing apparatus, comprising the steps of moving an annular ring valve within a processing chamber from a first position where the annular ring valve permits access to an access port of the processing chamber, to a second position where the annular ring valve sealingly blocks the access port, thereby prohibiting access to the processing chamber, wherein the annular ring valve has a substantially uniform inner peripheral surface, thereby facilitating uniform processing conditions within the processing chamber when in the second position. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein the step of moving an annular ring valve comprises activating an actuator operatively coupled thereto, wherein the activated actuator exerts a force on the annular ring valve to move the ring valve from the first position to the second position. 51. The method of claim 50, wherein activating the actuator comprises turning one or more gears coupled to one or more screws, respectively, thereby rotating the screw, wherein the screw is coupled to the ring valve and the screw rotation alters a vertical position of the screw within the processing chamber, thereby altering a vertical position of the ring valve within the processing chamber. 52. The method of claim 49, further comprising the steps of transferring a wafer from a load lock chamber to the processing chamber through a transfer chamber. 53. The method of claim 52, further comprising the steps of: transferring a wafer to the load lock chamber, wherein at least a portion of the load lock chamber containing the wafer is fluidly isolated from the transfer chamber; changing a pressure in the portion of the load lock chamber to substantially equalize the pressure therein with a pressure in the transfer chamber; bringing the portion of the load lock chamber into fluid communication with the transfer chamber; and transferring the wafer from the load lock chamber to the processing chamber via the transfer chamber. 54. The method of claim 53, further comprising the step of lowering a load lock cover over the portion of the load lock chamber containing the wafer to fluidly isolate the portion from the transfer chamber. 55. The method of claim 53, wherein changing the pressure in the portion of the load lock chamber comprises evacuating an ambient environment from the load lock chamber portion using a pump until a pressure in the load lock chamber portion substantially equalizes the pressure in the transfer chamber. 56. A method of transferring a wafer to a wafer processing apparatus containing a load lock chamber and a processing chamber, comprising the steps of: fluidly isolating a portion of the load lock chamber from the processing chamber; inserting a wafer from an external wafer location to the portion of the load lock chamber; equalizing a pressure between the portion of the load lock chamber and the processing chamber; bringing the portion of the load lock chamber into fluid communication with the processing chamber; transferring the wafer from the load lock chamber to the processing chamber; and fluidly sealing the processing chamber from the load lock chamber via an annular ring valve, wherein the annular ring valve has a substantially uniform interior peripheral surface, thereby facilitating uniform processing conditions within the processing chamber. 57. The method of claim 56, wherein fluidly isolating the portion of the load lock chamber from the processing chamber comprises moving a load lock chamber cover from an open position to a closed position, wherein the load lock chamber cover in the closed position sealingly engages the portion of the load lock chamber. 58. The method of claim 57, wherein bringing the portion of the load lock chamber into fluid communication with the processing chamber comprises moving the load lock chamber cover from the closed position to the open position. 59. The method of claim 56, wherein fluidly sealing the processing chamber from the load lock chamber comprises moving the annular ring valve within the processing chamber from a first position to a second position, wherein the first ring valve position defines an annular spacing between a top interior portion and a bottom interior portion of the processing chamber and the second ring valve position couples the top and bottom portions together. 