A method for processing a semiconductor wafer or similar article includes the step of spinning the wafer and applying a fluid to a first side of the wafer, while it is spinning. The fluid flows radially outwardly in all directions, over the first side of the wafer, via centrifugal force. As the fluid flows off of the circumferential edge of the wafer, it is contained in an annular reservoir, so that the fluid also flows onto an outer annular area of the second side of the wafer. An opening allows fluid to flow out of the reservoir. The opening defines the location of a parting line beyond which the fluid will not travel on the second side of the wafer. An apparatus for processing a semiconductor wafer or similar article includes a reactor having a processing chamber formed by upper and lower rotors. The wafer is supported between the rotors. The rotors are rotated by a spin motor. A processing fluid is introduced onto the top or bottom surface of the wafer, or onto both surfaces, at a central location. The fluid flows outwardly uniformly and in all directions. A wafer support automatically lifts the wafer, so that it can be removed from the reactor by a robot, when the rotors separate from each other after processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: a first rotor; a second rotor engagable with the first rotor; the first rotor and the second rotor forming an annular chamber, when the first and second rotors are engaged, with the annular chamber rotatable about a spin axis; a plurality of spacing members for holding the workpiece, with at least a perimeter area of the workpiece in the annular chamber, and with the annular chamber adapted to confine fluid around the perimeter area of the workpiece when the annular chamber is spinning. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a fluid supply opening positioned to introduce a processing fluid to a central area of the workpiece. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 with the annular chamber having a top surface, a bottom surface and an outside wall surface, formed by the first and second rotors. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 where the workpiece has a flat surface and the outside wall surface is perpendicular to the flat surface of the workpiece. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 where the outside wall surface is vertical and the flat surface of the workpiece is horizontal, so that fluid on the flat surface of the workpiece flows radially outwardly equally in all directions over the flat workpiece surface, via centrifugal force, when the workpiece rotates with the annular chamber. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a seal between the first and second rotors, with the seal having a diameter greater than the diameter of the chamber. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a spin motor connected to at least one of the first and second rotors. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an outlet in at least one of the first and second rotors, with the outlet located between the annular chamber and the spin axis of the rotors. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 where the at least one outlet is spaced inwardly from the edge of the workpiece by about 1-5 mm. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for moving the first and second rotors apart, for loading and unloading a workpiece, and for moving them together for processing a workpiece. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 with at least one of the first and second rotors including a web plate attached to a drive shaft. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising spacing members extending into the annular chamber. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 where the workpiece is a round and flat and the annular chamber is round. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 where the perimeter area of the workpiece within the annular chamber extends inwardly about 1-5 mm from the edge of the workpiece. 15. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a rotor including a first chamber member, and a second chamber member forming a processing chamber; a first inlet in the first chamber member; one or more outlets in at least one of the first and second chamber members; and a seal sealing a perimeter of the first and second chamber members. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising an array of spaced apart outlets in at least one of the first and second chamber members, with each outlet positioned at a uniform radial distance from the spin axis of the rotor. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 where the rotor has a vertical spin axis and the first chamber member above the second chamber member. 18. The apparatus of claim 15 further including a nozzle having at least two ports for directing two or more streams of processing fluid towards the workpiece; to cause the streams to converge where they reach the workpiece. 19. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising a head enclosing the rotor, and a base under the head, with the base including an annular plenum coaxial with the spin axis, for collecting spent fluid and draining it away from the rotor. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising a plurality of drain openings in the annular plenum, with a drain valve in each opening. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the rotor further comprises a ribbed surface facing a smooth surface of the head, so that spinning movement of the rotor swirls air to sweep fluids towards the drains. 22. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising an annular skirt attached to the first chamber member and extending towards the second chamber member. 23. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising means for moving the first and second chamber members together and apart. 24. The apparatus of claim 15 where the one or more outlets is positioned between a spin axis of the processing chamber and the seal. 25. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising a second inlet in the second chamber member. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 with the first and second inlets each connected to either a fluid source or a gas source. 27. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a rotor including a first chamber member, and a second chamber forming a processing chamber between them; a first inlet in the first chamber member; an aligning ring having a plurality of openings, the aligning ring attached to and concentric with the second chamber member; an actuating ring below the aligning ring, the actuating ring having a plurality of upwardly extending pins, with each pin aligned with one of the openings in the aligning ring; and an actuator ring driver below the actuating ring, for raising and lowering the actuating ring. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein the actuator ring driver comprises a plurality of pneumatic devices. 29. The apparatus of claim 27 further comprising means for latching the first and second chamber members together. 30. The apparatus of claim 27 further comprising: an array of spaced apart outlets each positioned at a uniform radial distance from the spin axis of the rotor; and a seal on the second chamber member sealing a perimeter of the first and second chamber members, when the first and second chamber members are engaged together. 31. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a rotor including a first chamber member and a second chamber member forming a processing chamber between them; an first inlet in the first chamber member; an outlet in at least one of the first and second chamber members; a latching mechanism for latching the first and second chamber members together, during processing, the latching mechanism comprising: a latching ring retained by the second chamber member the latching ring having a plurality of stepped portions radially displaceable to engage into and to disengage from recesses in the first chamber member; a plurality of latching cams, with one latching cam associated with each of the stepped portions of the latching ring; an actuating ring engageable against the latching cams, to move the cams into or out of the recesses in the first chamber member; and means for engaging the actuating ring against the latching cams. 32. The apparatus of claim 31 further comprising a workpiece lifting mechanism on the second chamber member, for lifting the workpiece away from the second chamber member, when the first chamber member is separated from the second chamber member. 33. The apparatus of claim 31 further comprising a plurality of levers pivotable attached to the second chamber member, with an elastic member continuously biasing the levers into a raised up position. 34. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a first rotor; a second rotor engageable with the first rotor to form a chamber for holding the workpiece; and a plurality of spacing members adjacent to the perimeter of the workpiece, for holding the workpiece between the first and second rotors, with substantially each spacing member including a lifting lever pivotably attached to the first rotor and a lifting lever driver acting to constantly force the lifting lever towards the second rotor. 35. The apparatus of claim 34 where the lifting lever driver comprises an elastic member. 36. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a first rotor; a second rotor; the first rotor and the second rotor forming a ring shaped chamber having a vertical wall extending between an upper horizontal wall and a lower horizontal wall, and with the chamber rotatable about a spin axis; and a plurality of spacing members on at least one of the first and second rotors, for holding a workpiece between the first and second rotors. 37. The apparatus of claim 36 where at least part of one of the upper, lower and vertical walls is flat. 38. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece comprising: a top rotor; a bottom rotor engaged with the top rotor; with the top and bottom rotors forming a process chamber for holding and processing a microelectronic workpiece; spacing members extending out of the top and bottom rotors to support the microelectronic workpiece spaced apart from the top and bottom rotors; and means for confining a process fluid to a defined perimeter area on a top or bottom surface of the microelectronic workpiece, via centrifugal force. 39. The apparatus of claim 38 where the means for confining comprises the rotors surrounding the perimeter area of the microelectronic workpiece on three sides. 