A dual lane board handling apparatus includes a first zone including first and second parallel pairs of rails extending in a first direction; a second zone including third and fourth parallel pairs of rails extending in the first direction; first tracks supporting the first and second pairs of rails so that the first and second pairs of rails can move on the first tracks in a second direction perpendicular to the first direction; a drive for moving the first pair of rails on the first tracks in the second direction such that the first pair of rails can be selectively moved between a first orientation wherein it is in alignment with the fourth pair of rails and a second orientation wherein it is in alignment with the third pair of rails; a drive for moving the second pair of rails in the second direction; and belts on the first, second, third, and fourth pairs of rails for conveying boards along the rails in the first direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A dual lane board handling apparatus, comprising: a first zone including first and second parallel pairs of rails extending in a first direction; a second zone including third and fourth parallel pairs of rails extending in the first direction; first tracks supporting the first and second pairs of rails so that the first and second pairs of rails can move on the first tracks in a second direction perpendicular to the first direction; a first drive mechanism for moving the first pair of rails on the first tracks in the second direction such that the first pair of rails can be selectively moved between a first orientation wherein the first pair of rails is in alignment with the fourth pair of rails and a second orientation wherein the first pair of rails is in alignment with the third pair of rails; a second drive mechanism for moving the second pair of rails in the second direction; and a conveyor on each of the first, second, third, and fourth pairs of rails for conveying boards along the rails in the first direction. 2. The dual lane apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a third zone including fifth and sixth pairs of rails extending in the first direction; second tracks supporting the fifth and sixth pairs of rails so that the fifth and sixth pairs of rails can move on the second tracks in the second direction perpendicular to the first direction; a fifth drive mechanism for moving the fifth pair of rails on the second tracks in the second direction such that the fifth pair of rails can be selectively moved between a first orientation wherein the fifth pair of rails is in alignment with the fourth pair of rails and a second orientation wherein the fifth pair of rails is in alignment with the third pair of rails; a sixth drive mechanism for moving the sixth pair of rails in the second direction; and a conveyor on the fifth and sixth pairs of rails for conveying boards along the rails in the first direction. 3. The dual lane apparatus of claim 2, wherein the respective drive mechanisms are configured to adjust a spacing between each of the pairs of rails. 4. The dual lane apparatus of claim 3, wherein the respective drive mechanisms can separately adjust the spacing between each of the pairs of rails. 5. The dual lane apparatus of claim 1, wherein the conveyors are conveyor belts. 6. The dual lane apparatus of claim 5, wherein the conveyor belts include a flat first surface and a second surface having teeth extending therefrom, wherein a width of the teeth is less than a width of the second surface from which the teeth extend. 7. The dual lane apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: third tracks for supporting the third and the fourth pairs of rails, wherein at least one of each of the third and fourth pairs of rails can be moved in the second direction; a third drive mechanism for moving the at least one of the third pair of rails in the second direction; and a fourth drive mechanism for moving the at least one of the fourth pair of rails in the second direction. 8. The dual lane apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a controller for controlling movement of the first drive mechanism, the second drive mechanism, the third drive mechanism, the fourth drive mechanism, the fifth drive mechanism, and the sixth drive mechanism, wherein each of the drive mechanisms can be controlled separately by the controller. 9. The dual lane apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of the rails comprises: a first frame; a second frame supported by the first frame and movable in a vertical direction with respect to the first frame; rollers on the second frame for supporting the respective conveyor; a motor for moving the second frame with respect to the first frame; and a contact above the conveyor, wherein a board being conveyed on the rail can be clamped between the conveyor and the contact by raising the second frame with respect to the first frame. 10. The dual lane apparatus of claim 2, wherein at least one of the rails of the third and fourth pairs of rails comprises: a first frame; a second frame supported by the first frame and movable in a vertical direction with respect to the first frame; rollers on the second frame for supporting the conveyor; means for moving the second frame with respect to the first frame; and a contact above the conveyor, wherein a board being conveyed on the rail can be clamped between the conveyor and the contact by raising the second frame with respect to the first frame. 11. The dual lane apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a plate arranged between the pair of rails that includes the one rail, the plate including pins for supporting a board being conveyed by the pair of rails, wherein the plate moves in unison with the second frame so that a distance between a top of the pins and a top of the conveyor remains substantially constant. 12. The dual lane apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a robot for automatically placing support pins on the plate. 13. The dual lane apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of the third and fourth pairs of rails includes an inner rail and an outer rail, and further comprising a third drive mechanism for moving the inner rail of the third pair of rails in the second direction and a fourth drive mechanism for moving the inner rail of the fourth pair of rails in the second direction. 14. The dual lane apparatus of claim 13, wherein each of the outer rails of the third and fourth pairs of rails is not movable in the second direction. 15. The dual lane apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one motor for driving the first and second drive mechanisms. 16. The dual lane apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one motor for driving the first drive mechanism. 17. The dual lane apparatus of claim 16, further comprising a second motor for driving the second drive mechanism. 18. The dual lane apparatus of claim 17, wherein the at least one motor also drives the third and fifth drive mechanisms. 19. The dual lane apparatus of claim 18, wherein the second motor also drives the fourth and sixth drive mechanisms. 20. The dual lane apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: at least one motor for driving the first and second drive mechanisms; a sensor; a marking on each of the first pair of rails, said markings being detectable by the sensor; and a controller for calibrating the motor with regard to the location of the first pair of rails. 21. A method of conveying boards in a first direction with a dual lane apparatus having a first zone which includes first and second pairs of rails and a second zone which includes third and fourth pairs of rails, the method comprising the steps of: aligning the first pair of rails in the first zone in a first position along a second direction; delivering a board onto the first pair of rails; realigning the first pair of rails in the first zone in a second position along the second direction, wherein the first pair of rails is in alignment with the fourth pair of rails in the second zone; conveying the board along the first pair of rails toward the second zone; and transferring the board from the first pair of rails to the fourth pair of rails. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein when the first pair of rails is in the first position, the first pair of rails is in alignment with the third pair of rails in the second zone. 23. The method of claim 21, further comprising the step of conveying the board along the fourth pair of rails. 24. A board conveyor, comprising: a first rail, the first rail including a first section and a second section that is movable vertically with respect to the first section; a second rail, the second rail including a first section and a second section that is movable vertically with respect to the first section; idler pulleys on the second section of the first rail; idler pulleys on the second section of the second rail; a conveyor belt mounted on the idler pulleys of the first rail and a conveyor belt mounted on the idler pulleys of the second rail, wherein the two conveyor belts are parallel and are adapted to support a board; a motor for driving the conveyor belts; a flexible edge mounted on the first section of at least the first rail, the flexible edge being mounted over the conveyor belt on the first rail; and a motor for raising the second section with respect to the first section of both the first rail and the second rail until a board supported on the conveyor belts is clamped firmly between the conveyor belts and the flexible edge. 25. The board conveyor of claim 24, further comprising a drive pulley on the first section of the first rail, wherein the conveyor belt is engaged with the drive pulley. 26. The board conveyor of claim 25, further comprising a plate arranged between the first rail and the second rail, the plate including pins for supporting the board being conveyed by the pair of rails, wherein the plate moves in unison with the second section of each of the rails so that a distance between a top of the pins and a top of the conveyor belt remains substantially constant. 27. A dual lane board handling apparatus, comprising: a first zone including first and second parallel pairs of rails extending in a first direction; first tracks supporting the first and second pairs of rails so that the first and second pairs of rails can move on the first tracks in a second direction perpendicular to the first direction; a first drive shaft for moving at least one of the first pair of rails on the first tracks in the second direction; a second drive shaft for moving at least one of the second pair of rails in the second direction; a conveyor on each of the first and second pairs of rails for conveying boards along the rails in the first direction; a third drive shaft for driving the conveyor on the first pair of rails; a fourth drive shaft for driving the conveyor on the second pair of rails; a first motor for driving the first and third drive shafts; and a second motor for driving the second and fourth drive shafts. 28. The dual lane apparatus of claim 27, further comprising: a fifth drive shaft for driving another one of the first pair of rails; and a sixth drive shaft for driving another one of the second pair of rails; wherein the first motor also drives the fifth shaft and the second motor also drives the sixth shaft. 29. The dual lane apparatus of claim 28, wherein each of the drive shafts is connected to its respective motor by a clutch that can be selectively engaged and disengaged. 30. The dual lane board handling apparatus of claim 27, further comprising: a second zone including third and fourth parallel pairs of rails extending in the first direction; a seventh drive shaft for moving at least one of the third pair of rails in the second direction; an eighth drive shaft for moving at least one of the fourth pair of rails in the second direction; wherein the first motor also drives the seventh drive shaft and the second motor also drives the eighth drive shaft. 31. A dual lane conveying system, comprising: first and second conveyors in a first zone; third and fourth conveyors in a second zone; fifth and sixth conveyors in a third zone; wherein the first conveyor is aligned with the third conveyor in a first mode so that an object being conveyed thereon can be transferred from the first conveyor to the third conveyor, and in a second mode, the first conveyor is aligned with the fourth conveyor so that an object being conveyed thereon can be transferred from the first conveyor to the fourth conveyor; and wherein the fifth conveyor is aligned with the third conveyor in a fifth mode so that an object being conveyed thereon can be transferred from the third conveyor to the fifth conveyor, and in a fourth mode, the fifth conveyor is aligned with the fourth conveyor so that an object being conveyed thereon can be transferred from the fourth conveyor to the fifth conveyor. 32. The dual lane conveying system of claim 31, wherein all of the conveyors are parallel to each other, and the three zones are in alignment with each other. 33. The dual lane conveying system of claim 31, wherein the first, third, and fifth conveyors are on a first side of the system and the second, fourth, and sixth conveyors are on a second side of the system, and further comprising: a first motor for driving the first, third, and fifth conveyors; and a second motor for driving the second, fourth, and sixth conveyors. 34. The dual lane conveying system of claim 33, wherein a width of each of the conveyors can be individually controlled. 35. The dual lane conveying system of claim 34, wherein the first motor controls the width of the first, third, and fifth conveyors, and the second motor controls the width of the second, fourth, and sixth conveyors. 