A method for scheduling the allocation of resources in a semiconductor object processing tool. The method comprises identifying a conflict in a resource allocation schedule for the processing of a plurality of semiconductor objects through the tool over time. The schedule utilizes a fundamental period for scheduling the periodic introduction of the objects into the tool for processing. A conflict arising when a transport mechanism adapted to move the objects to and from the resources in the tool is scheduled to execute more than one transport action in a given time interval. The time blocks associated with the conflict are rescheduled from a present time interval to a different time interval such that the rescheduling of the time block does not violate a post-processing residency constraint for a residency time that the object spends in the resource whose time block is rescheduled.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for scheduling an allocation of resources in a semiconductor processing tool comprising the steps of: identifying at least one conflict in a resource allocation schedule for processing a plurality of semiconductor objects through the tool over time, wherein a fundamental period is utilized for scheduling a periodic introduction of the objects into the tool for processing, the conflict occurring when a transport mechanism adapted to move the objects to and from the resources in the tool is scheduled to execute more than one transport action in a given time interval; and rescheduling at least one time block in the schedule from a present time interval to a different time interval, wherein the rescheduling of the time block does not violate a post-processing residency constraint for a residency time that the object spends in the resource whose time block is rescheduled. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of rescheduling at least one time block in the schedule from a present time interval to a different time interval comprises rescheduling the time block to an earlier time interval. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of rescheduling one or more of the time blocks comprises not changing the fundamental period of the schedule. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of rescheduling one or more of the time blocks comprises the step of increasing a total time for producing at least one object in the tool by a predetermined time period. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of increasing the total time for producing at least one object comprises the step of sliding at least one selected time block by the predetermined amount to an earlier time interval. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein a maximum amount to slide the time block is represented by the equation: wherein FP is the fundamental period of the schedule, t.sub.pick is the pick time, t.sub.place is the place time, and N is a number of objects. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of sliding at least one selected time block to the earlier time interval comprises the steps of: shifting a pick time block associated with the selected time block by the predetermined amount to the earlier time interval; shifting a processing time associated with the selected time block by the predetermined amount; and shifting a place time associated with the selected time block by the predetermined amount. 8. The method of claim 5 further comprising the steps of: identifying a new conflict in the schedule after sliding the selected time block; increasing the fundamental period of the schedule; identifying another conflict; and repeating the step of sliding at least one selected time block by the predetermined amount to an earlier time interval. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of rescheduling the one or more time blocks comprises the step of increasing the residency time for at least one object in at least one resource in the schedule. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of increasing the residency time for at least one object in at least one resource in the schedule comprises the step of stretching a processing time block a predetermined time period to an earlier time interval. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein a maximum amount to stretch the time block is represented by the equation: ##EQU2## for i=1 to N, wherein FP is the fundamental period of the schedule, t.sub.pick is the pick time, t.sub.place is the place time, t.sub.res is a residency constraint, t.sub.proc is a processing time, and N is a number of objects in the tool. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of stretching the processing time block a predetermined time period comprises the steps of: moving a place time block associated with a selected time block by the predetermined time period to the earlier time interval; and increasing the size of the processing time block associated with the selected time block by moving one end of the processing time block the predetermined time period. 13. The method of claim 10 further comprising the steps of: identifying a new conflict in the schedule after stretching the selected time block; increasing the fundamental period of the schedule; identifying another conflict; and repeating the step of stretching at least one selected time block by the predetermined amount to an earlier time interval. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of rescheduling one or more time block comprises the step of increasing the fundamental period of the resource allocation schedule by at least one time interval. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the steps of: identifying another conflict in the schedule after increasing the fundamental period; and sliding at least one time block by the predetermined amount to an earlier time interval. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of: identifying another conflict in the schedule after increasing the fundamental period; and stretching at least one time block by the predetermined amount to an earlier time interval. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the residency time that an object spends in a resource is bounded at a lower end by a processing time for the object and at an upper end by the sum of the processing time for the object and a residency constraint for the object. 