A robotic arm has a pair of gripper fingers designed to grip a variety of containers, including capped and uncapped test tubes as well as containers having unique gripping means. The fingers each have upper and lower projections separated by a groove, the respective projections facing each other when mounted to grippers on the robotic arm. The projections and groove serve to firmly hold the containers as well as self-align the unique gripping means on initially unaligned containers within the fingers as the fingers close around the containers. The fingers have clearance to avoid contact with caps on capped test tubes. Stops are provided at the top of each finger to engage one another and prevent fully closed fingers from deforming. The robotic arm may be transported along a rail mounted above the instrument and a gripper assembly, having a gripper arm, mounted to the robotic arm may be rotated above the instrument to move the container to various locations within the instrument. Side posts on the instruments have a gap between them that permits the gripper arm to rotate and extend outwards to interface with an adjacent instrument or a lab automation transport line.
Claims We claim: 1. An analytical instrument comprising a rail, a robotic arm for transporting a container, a chassis having a first area accessible to said robotic arm and a second area that is inaccessible to said robotic arm, and a shuttle mounted to said chassis, said robotic arm having a platform coupled to said rail for movement of the robotic arm along a first axis, a gripper assembly for gripping a container, a first motor, mounted to said platform and coupled to said gripper assembly, for moving said gripper assembly along a second axis, and a second motor, coupled to said platform, for pivoting said gripper assembly about said second axis, said shuttle mounted to said chassis to transport said container along a third axis between said first and second areas. 2. The instrument of claim 1 wherein said shuttle comprises a rack for transporting said container. 3. An analytical instrument for use in conjunction with a laboratory automation system comprising a transport line, said instrument comprising a robotic arm having a gripper arm extending above said instrument, a first side at which said robotic arm may be positioned, at least two side posts on said first side of said instrument, a gap between said at least two posts, wherein said gap is sufficiently large to permit said robotic arm to pivot and thereby extend said gripper arm through said gap and outside of said instrument beyond said side posts such that said robotic arm may transport a container between said instrument and said transport line. 4. The instrument of claim 3 further comprising a shuttle into which said robotic arm may transport said container from said transport line and for transporting said container within said instrument. 5. The instrument of claim 4 wherein said first robotic arm may transport said container between said transport line and said shuttle and said instrument further comprises a second robotic arm for transporting said container between said shuttle and another location within said instrument, and said shuttle may transport said container between said two robotic arms. 