A steerable endoscope has an elongated body with a selectively steerable distal portion and an automatically controlled proximal portion. The endoscope body is inserted into a patient and the selectively steerable distal portion is used to select a desired path within the patient's body. When the endoscope body is advanced, an electronic motion controller operates the automatically controlled proximal portion to assume the selected curve of the selectively steerable distal portion. Another desired path is selected with the selectively steerable distal portion and the endoscope body is advanced again. As the endoscope body is further advanced, the selected curves propagate proximally along the endoscope body, and when the endoscope body is withdrawn proximally, the selected curves propagate distally along the endoscope body. This creates a serpentine motion in the endoscope body that allows it to negotiate tortuous curves along a desired path through or around and between organs within the body.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of advancing an instrument along an arbitrary path, comprising: selectively steering a distal portion of the instrument to assume a first selected curve along the arbitrary path; and advancing the instrument distally while continuously controlling at least a proximal portion of the instrument to linearly assume the first selected curve of the distal portion in an infinitely variable motion by propagating a measured length of at least one side of said distal portion to at least one side of said proximal portion. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising further advancing the instrument distally while controlling the proximal portion to propagate the first selected curve proximally along the proximal portion of the instrument. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising withdrawing the instrument proximally while controlling the proximal portion to propagate the first selected curve distally along the proximal portion of the instrument. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: selectively steering the elongate distal portion of the instrument to linearly assume a second selected curve along the arbitrary path; and advancing the instrument proximally while controlling the proximal portion to linearly propagate the first and second selected curves proximally along the proximal portion of the instrument. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein selectively steering the distal portion comprises manually steering the distal portion of the instrument to assume the first selected curve. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the proximal portion of the instrument is automatically controlled by an electronic motion controller. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising measuring axial motion of the instrument with an axial motion transducer. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the proximal portion of the instrument is controlled such that the first selected curve remains approximately fixed in space as the instrument is advanced proximally and/or withdrawn proximally. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the instrument is an endoscope inserted into a patient's body. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the instrument is a colonoscope inserted into a patient's colon. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising affixing the first selected curve relative to a fixed point of reference while advancing the instrument distally. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the fixed point of reference is located at a distance from the arbitrary path. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the elongate distal portion comprises a non-segmented steerable portion. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the proximal portion comprises a plurality of segments pivotally interconnected between adjacent segments. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the distal portion of the instrument comprises an elongate steerable section. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the elongate distal portion comprises at least one segment. 17. A method of advancing an elongated instrument along an arbitrary path, the elongated instrument having a multiplicity of controllable sections, including a first section, a second section and a third section, each section representing one unit of length, comprising: continuously controlling the first section to linearly assume a first selected curve along an arbitrary path; advancing the elongated instrument distally a distance of approximately one unit of length while continuously controlling the second section to linearly assume the first selected curve in an infinitely variable motion by propagating a first measured length of at least one side of said first section to at least one side of said second section; continuously controlling the first section to linearly assume a second selected curve along the arbitrary path; and further advancing the elongated instrument distally a distance of approximately one unit of length while continuously controlling the second section to linearly assume the second selected curve in an infinitely variable motion by propagating a second measured length of at least one side of said first section to at least one side of said second section and continuously controlling the third section to assume the first selected curve in an infinitely variable motion by propagating the first measured length of said at least one side of said first section to at least one side of said third section. 18. The method of claim 15 further comprising: controlling the first section to linearly assume a third selected curve along the arbitrary path; and further advancing the elongated instrument distally a distance of approximately one unit of length while controlling the second section to linearly assume the third selected curve and controlling the third section to assume the second selected curve. 19. The method of claim 15 further comprising withdrawing the elongated instrument proximally a distance of approximately one unit of length while controlling the first section to linearly assume the third selected curve, controlling the second section to linearly assume the second selected curve and controlling the third section to linearly assume the first selected curve. 20. The method of claim 15 wherein the proximal portion of the instrument is automatically controlled by an electronic motion controller. 21. The method of claim 15 wherein the elongated instrument is an endoscope inserted into a patient's body. 22. The method of claim 15 wherein the elongated instrument is a colonoscope inserted into a patient's colon. 