A robotic machine includes a machine tool removably supported in a mount for following a programmable path over a workpiece. A calibration pointer includes a housing configured like the tool for being supported in the mount, and a laser is affixed in the housing for emitting a laser beam at the workpiece. In a method of operation, the laser beam is projected from the laser in a focused spot at the workpiece at an offset therefrom. The spot permits accurate programming of the machine without contacting the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A calibration pointer for a robotic machine having a machine tool removably supported in a mount for following a programmable path over a workpiece, comprising: a housing configured like said tool for being supported in said mount; a laser affixed inside said housing for emitting a laser beam at said workpiece wherein said laser has an adjustable focal length for focusing said laser bean in a focused spot at correspondingly different offsets from said housing; and a remote power supply operatively joined to said laser by a power cable. 2. A pointer according to claim 1 wherein: said machine includes a multi-axis arm supporting at a distal end thereof said machine tool in the form of a plasma spray gun; said gun includes a plasma spray nozzle mounted therein; and said pointer housing comprises a second plasma spray nozzle having said laser sealingly mounted therein. 3. A pointer according to claim 2 wherein said second nozzle is axially split for providing an interference fit with said laser mounted therein. 4. A pointer according to claim 2 wherein said laser is configured to emit a visible laser beam for visually effecting said focused spot. 5. A pointer according to claim 2 in combination with said robotic machine, and further comprising: a programmable controller 14 operatively joined to said multi-axis arm for controlling position thereof; and a programmable controller 14 operatively joined to said multi-axis arm for controlling position thereof; and said controller is configured to include a programmed path for said pointer supported on said arm for maintaining an offset from said workpiece. said controller is configured to include a programmed path for said pointer supported on said arm for maintaining an offset from said workpiece. 