The invention provides a grapple device and a method for manipulating, i.e., grabbing, holding and releasing objects. The grapple comprises two parallel rollers with gripping surfaces, where the rollers are pushed towards each other with sufficient force to hold a graspable portion of a deformable object. When the grapple comes onto contact with any portion of the deformable object, a signal activates a set of gears causing the rollers to rotate in opposing directions so that a graspable portion of the object is dragged between the rollers. When sufficient material is caught between the rollers, a signal activates a brake automatically stopping the rotation of the rollers, whereby the rollers then hold the graspable portion of the object allowing the object to be moved to a desired location. When the object is properly located, a signal is generated which causes the rollers to rotate in the opposite direction to release the object. The grapple device of the invention provides a control system to generate the signals and operated the grapple.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanical grapple device for manipulating an object, comprising: a supporting bracket assembly mountable to a transport mechanism; a first roller, having a roller axis, the roller rotatably mounted on the supporting bracket assembly, and the first roller being rotatable about its axis, wherein the first roller further comprises a gripping surface for engaging and dragging a graspable portion of the object; a second roller, having a roller axis, and the second roller being rotatable about its axis, wherein the second roller further comprises a gripping surface for engaging and dragging the graspable portion of the object; a left pivoting bracket assembly and a right pivoting bracket assembly connected to the supporting bracket assembly, wherein the left and right pivoting bracket assemblies have an axis of rotation and rotatably hold the second roller; a biasing means to bias the rollers toward each other with sufficient force to facilitate holding the graspable portion of the object in place between the rollers; a first gear rigidly connected to the axis of the first roller; a second gear rigidly connected to the axis of the second roller; a third gear rotatably mounted on the supporting bracket assembly, wherein the third gear mates with the first gear; a fourth gear, rotatably mounted on the supporting bracket assembly, wherein the fourth gear mates with both the second and third gears and has the same axis of rotation as the left and right pivoting bracket assemblies; and a drive means for rotating the third gear, wherein, when the drive means rotates the third gear in a first direction, the first roller and the second roller rotate in opposite directions, and when the gripping surface of the first roller is placed into contact with the graspable portion of the object, the first roller gripping surface draws the graspable portion of the object into a region between the first and the second rollers, thereby grasping the object. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein, when the drive means rotates the third gear in a second direction, the first roller and the second roller turn outwardly in opposing rotations, releasing the object. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the supporting bracket assembly is mounted to the transport mechanism by a mounting bracket. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein the left and right pivoting bracket assemblies further comprise a first clamping bracket and a second clamping bracket, wherein the first clamping bracket comprises a first end rotatably connected to the supporting bracket assembly and a second end attached to the first end of the second clamping bracket, and wherein the second end of the second holding bracket rotatably holds the second roller. 5. The device according to claim 1, wherein the drive means comprises an electrically powered motor. 6. The device according to claim 5, wherein the drive means further comprises a power transmission system to transmit the power from the motor to rotate the third gear. 7. The device according to claim 6, wherein the power transmission system further comprises: a speed reducer transmission coupled to the motor, a driver sprocket connected to the speed reducer transmission, a driven sprocket connected to rotate the third gear and a chain connecting the driver and driven sprockets. 8. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a holding means selectively operable to releasably engage at least one of the rollers, and prevent rotation of the roller when engaged, so that when the graspable portion of the object is located in the region between the rollers and when the holding means is engaged, the contact between the graspable portion of the object and the first and second rollers causes the object to be held by the device. 9. The device according to claim 8, wherein the holding means for preventing the rotation of the rollers is a brake. 10. The device according to claim 1, wherein the biasing means is a spring. 11. The device according to claim 1, wherein the material covering the gripping surface of the rollers has a high coefficient of friction. 12. The device according to claim 11, wherein the material is rubber. 13. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a control system which controls in the device three operational phases: grab, hold, and release. 14. The device according to claim 13, further comprising a signal generating element that generates a signal when the device is close to an object. 15. The device according to claim 14, wherein the signal generating element is a proximity switch, which issues a signal when the device is close to the object. 16. The device according to claim 13, further comprising a signal generating element that generates a signal when a sufficient portion of the graspable portion of the object is collected between the rollers. 17. The device according to claim 16, wherein the signal generating element is an electro-mechanical switch. 18. The device according to claim 13, further comprising a signal generating element that generates a signal to release the object. 19. The device according to claim 18, wherein the signal generating element is a momentary switch pressed by the operator. 20. The device according to claim 1, wherein the object is a deformable object. 21. The device according to claim 20, wherein the deformable object is a weighted sack or bag. 22. A method of manipulating an object comprising; mounting a grapple device to a transport mechanism, wherein the grapple device further comprises (i) a supporting bracket assembly (ii) a first roller, having a roller axis, the roller rotatably mounted on the supporting bracket assembly, and the first roller being rotatable about its axis, wherein the first roller further comprises a gripping surface for engaging a graspable portion of the object, (iii) a second roller, having a roller axis, and the second roller being rotatable about its axis, wherein the second roller further comprises a gripping surface for engaging the graspable portion of the object, (iv) a left pivoting bracket assembly and a right pivoting bracket assembly connected to the supporting bracket assembly, having a axis of rotation and rotatably holding the second roller, (v) a biasing means to bias the rollers toward each other with sufficient force to facilitate holding the graspable portion of the object in place between the rollers, (vi) a first gear rigidly connected to the axis of the first roller, (vii) a second gear rigidly connected to the, axis of the second roller, (viii) a third gear, rotatably mounted on the supporting bracket assembly, wherein the third gear mates with the first gear, (ix) a fourth gear, rotatably mounted on the supporting bracket assembly, wherein the fourth gear mates with both the second and third gears and has the same axis of rotation as the left and right pivoting bracket assemblies, and (x) a driving means for rotating the third gear; positioning the grapple device close to the object; activating the grapple device, wherein the driving means rotates the third gear in a first direction, such that the first roller and the second roller rotate in opposite directions, and when the roller surface of the first roller contacts the object, a graspable portion of the object is drawn between the first and the second rollers, thereby grasping the object; stopping the rotation of the rollers automatically when a sufficient portion of the object is grabbed between the rollers, thereby holding the object; maneuvering the grapple device and object, via the transport mechanism, to the desired location; and releasing the object from the grapple device by a release mechanism, wherein the driving means rotates the third gear in a second direction, the first roller and the second roller turn outwardly in opposing rotations. 23. The method according to claim 22, further comprising releasably engaging at least one of the rollers to prevent rotation of the roller when engaged, so that when the graspable portion of the object is located between the rollers, the contact between the graspable portion of the object and the first and second rollers causes the object to be held by the device. 24. The method according to claim 22, further comprising generating a signal when the device is close to an object. 25. The method according to claim 22, further comprising generating a signal when a sufficient portion of the graspable portion of the object is collected between the rollers. 26. The method according to claim 22, further comprising generating a signal to release the object. 27. The method according to claim 22, wherein the object is a deformable object. 28. The method according to claim 27, wherein the deformable object is a weighted sack or bag. 