Combinatorial high throughput screening is used to rapidly investigate and screen a multiplicity of complex thermal barrier coating candidates. In the screening method, a solution of thermal barrier coating precursors is formed and injected into a plasma jet of an air plasma spray (APS). The plasma jet is directed toward a substrate to deposit a gradient film formed from the precursors onto the substrate. An APS torch system comprises an APS torch, solution precursor vessels connected to the torch through a mixing zone and injector, a substrate oriented with respect to the torch to receive a plasma spray film formed from solution precursors from the vessels and a controller. The controller is connected to the solution precursor vessels and the torch or substrate to control mixing of the solution precursors and to control orientation of the torch or substrate to deposit a gradient film onto the substrate from the plasma spray. A CHTS array comprises a substrate and a gradient film of candidate TBC materials deposited over the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: (A) selecting a multiplicity of thermal barrier candidate coating precursors; (B) controllably air plasma spraying the multiplicity of coating precursors onto a substrate to form a continuous gradient of thermal barrier candidate coatings, wherein a composition of a coating in the gradient is identifiable by its position on the substrate; (C) screening the continuous gradient by a procedure to determine a coating property; and (D) identifying a composition with a respective coating property according to its position on the substrate. 2. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising applying said composition identified in (D) onto a gas turbine engine part as a thermal barrier coating. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said precursors are dissolved. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the coating property is a thermal barrier coating property. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said method further comprises reiterating (A), (B), (C) and (D) wherein a successive candidate thermal barrier coating precursor is selected for the reiterating as a result of identification of a composition having an improved thermal barrier coating property according to a preceding iteration of (A), (B), (C) and (D). 6. A method of forming an array of thermal barrier coating candidates, comprising: forming a solution of thermal barrier coating precursors; injecting said solution into a plasma jet of an APS; and directing said plasma jet toward a substrate to deposit a gradient film formed from said precursors onto said substrate. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising controlling a constituency of said solution and controlling relative positions of said APS and a substrate to deposit said gradient film. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein said solution is an atomized aqueous solution containing at least two metal salt precursors. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein said solution contains salts of yttrium and zirconium. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein said solution contains salts of yttrium, zirconium and cesium. 11. A method, comprising: (A) steps of (i) simultaneously forming a controlled pattern of candidate TBC coatings on a substrate wherein said controlled pattern comprises a gradient of coatings on said substrate and said candidate TBC coatings are tagged by their location in said gradient; and (ii) determining a thermal barrier property of said coatings. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said controlled pattern of candidate TBC coatings is formed by air plasma spray. 13. The method of claim 11, additionally comprising: (B) reiterating (A) wherein successive candidate TBC coatings are selected as a result of an evaluating step (ii) of a preceding iteration or as a result of evaluating steps (iii) of preceding iterations of (A). 14. The method of claim 11, wherein said determining step (ii) comprises determining diffusivity. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein said determining step (ii) comprises determining diffusivity by a flash method. 