A substrate processing system that includes a ceramic substrate holder having an RF electrode embedded within the substrate holder and a gas inlet manifold spaced apart from the substrate holder. The gas inlet manifold supplies one or more process gases through multiple conical holes to a reaction zone of a substrate processing chamber within the processing system and also acts as a second RF electrode. Each conical hole has an outlet that opens into the reaction zone and an inlet spaced apart from the outlet that is smaller in diameter than said outlet. A mixed frequency RF power supply is connected to the substrate processing system with a high frequency RF power source connected to the gas inlet manifold electrode and a low frequency RF power source connected to the substrate holder electrode. An RF filter and matching network decouples the high frequency waveform from the low frequency waveform. Such a configuration allows for an enlarged process regime and provides for deposition of films, including silicon nitride films, having physical characteristics that were previously unattainable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for depositing a film on a substrate in a substrate processing chamber, the method comprising: introducing one or more process gases into a reaction zone of the substrate processing chamber through a plurality of holes in a gas inlet manifold of a gas distribution system, each of the holes comprising an outlet which opens into the reaction zone and an inlet spaced apart from the outlet, the outlet being larger in diameter than the inlet; forming a plasma from the one or more process gases by applying high frequency RF power to the gas inlet manifold; applying low frequency RF power to an electrode in a substrate holder that supports a substrate being processed; and decoupling waveforms generated by the high frequency RF power from waveforms generated by the low frequency RF power. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein each of the holes has a conically shaped vertical cross-section. 3. A method for depositing a film on a substrate in a substrate processing chamber, said method comprising the steps of: introducing one or more process gases into a reaction zone of the substrate processing chamber through a plurality of holes in a gas inlet manifold of a gas distribution system, each of said holes comprising an outlet which opens into the reaction zone and an inlet spaced apart from said outlet, said outlet being larger in diameter than said inlet; forming a plasma from said one or more process gases by applying high frequency RF power to said gas inlet manifold; and applying low frequency RF power to an electrode in a substrate holder that supports a substrate being processed to control ion bombardment of said substrate. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said one or more process gases comprise silane, ammonia and nitrogen. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the ratio of low frequency RF power to total RF power is greater than 35%. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the ratio of low frequency RF power to total RF power is greater than 50%. 7. The method of claim 4 wherein said reaction zone is maintained at a pressure of between 2.0 and 3.0 torr during deposition of the film. 8. The method of claim 4 wherein said reaction zone is maintained at a pressure of between 2.5 and 3.0 torr during deposition of the film. 9. The method of claim 3 wherein the low frequency RF power source generates a triangular, bipolar waveform. 10. The method of claim 3 wherein the ratio of low frequency RF power to total RF power is greater than 50%. 11. The method of claim 3 wherein each of said holes has a conically shaped vertical cross section. 12. The method of claim 3 wherein the substrate holder comprises a ceramic material and wherein said electrode is embedded within said ceramic material. 13. A method for depositing a film on a substrate in a substrate processing chamber, the method comprising: introducing one or more process gases into a reaction zone of the substrate processing chamber through a plurality of holes in a gas inlet manifold of a gas distribution system, each of the holes comprising an outlet which opens into the reaction zone and an inlet spaced apart from the outlet, the outlet being larger in diameter than the inlet; forming a plasma from the one or more process gases by applying high frequency RF power to a first electrode; and applying low frequency RF power to a second electrode. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the second electrode is disposed in the substrate holder. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the substrate holder comprises a ceramic material and the second electrode is embedded within the ceramic material. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein the first electrode comprises the gas inlet manifold. 17. The method of claim 13 further comprising decoupling waveforms generated by the high frequency RF power from waveforms generated by the low frequency RF power. 18. The method of claim 13 wherein the low frequency RF power generates a waveform that favors ion bombardment toward the substrate holder and hinders formation of harmonics. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein the low frequency power provides a triangular, bipolar waveform to the substrate holder. 20. The method of claim 13 wherein each of the holes has a conically shaped vertical cross-section. 