A wafer pod handling device engages a pod for transport through a flange on top of the pod by receiving the flange into a receptacle and rotating a circular disk having a square aperture such that edges on the disk are positioned beneath an overhang on the flange. As the circular disk is lifted, the edges contact the overhang of the flange and lift the pod. The circular disk is mounted in a housing having a lip adapted to slideably engage the circumference of the circular disk. An actuator on top of the housing rotates the disk into engagement with the flange. As the housing is lifted, the circumference of the circular disk rests on the lip to frictionally secure and support the circular disk despite power failures or accidental rotation that could disengage the pod.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An engaging device for an object having a handle with a flange extending from a pedestal on an upper surface of the object, the gripping device comprising: a housing, a circular aperture formed in said housing; a gripping element rotatably disposed within said housing for rotation about a vertical axis, said gripping element including a receptacle having inwardly facing edges configured to allow passage of the flange therethrough in a first orientation and further configured to support the flange on the inwardly facing edges upon rotation of said gripping element in said housing about the vertical axis to a second orientation. 2. The engaging device of claim 1 wherein said housing further comprises an inwardly facing annular lip around said aperture below a top surface of said housing. 3. The engaging device of claim 2 wherein said gripping element is disposed in said housing above said lip and adapted to be supported by said lip. 4. The engaging device of claim 1 wherein said second orientation is 45.degree. from said first orientation. 5. The engaging device of claim 1 wherein said flange has a polygonal configuration and said receptacle has a corresponding polygonal aperture having sides longer than a side of said flange. 6. The engaging device of claim 5 wherein said polygonal configuration is square. 7. The engaging device of claim 6 wherein said flange is part of a crown further comprising a stem portion and an overhand portion defined by said flange and said edges are adapted to be disposed beneath said overhang portion when said gripping element is rotated. 8. The engaging device of claim 7 wherein said gripping element further comprises flexure arms attached to the outer circumference of said gripping element. 9. The engaging device of claim 8 wherein said flexure arms are resilient. 10. The engaging device of claim 9 wherein said crown is attached to the object and said flexure arms are adapted to deform via downward force from said object. 11. The engaging device of claim 10 wherein said flexure arms are deformable such that said gripping element is frictionally secured to said lip when said gripping element is engaging the flange in the second orientation. 12. The engaging device of claim 10 wherein the object is a semiconductor wafer pod. 13. The engaging device of claim 8 further comprising an actuator attached to said flexure arms and operable to rotate said gripping element. 14. The engaging device of claim 13 wherein said gripping element is frictionally secured by a force from the object such that said actuator is inoperable to rotate said gripping element. 15. The engaging device of claim 13 wherein said object has inertial forces such that said actuator is inoperable to rotate said gripping element due to said inertial forces. 16. The engaging device of claim 5 wherein the edges are defined by the portion of said gripping element outside the perimeter of said polygon aperture. 17. A gripping device for an object having a handle with a flange extending from a pedestal on an upper surface of the object, the gripping device comprising: a housing, an aperture formed in said housing, and an inwardly facing lip around said aperture below a top surface of said housing; a gripping element comprising: a peripheral rim disposed within said housing above said lip, the rim sized to be supported by said lip, a receptacle formed in the gripping element and configured to receive and support the flange of the object therein, and a resilient support structure attached to said rim above said receptacle, the resilient support structure operable to flex upon application of a lifting force in opposition to a downwardly directed force from the object supported by the gripping element, whereby the gripping element frictionally rests upon said inwardly facing lip of said housing. 18. The gripping device of claim 15, wherein the resilient support structure comprises a plurality of flexural arms attached to an upper portion of the peripheral rim. 19. The gripping device of claim 18, wherein the flexural arms meet at a central region of the gripping element. 20. The gripping device of claim 15, further comprising an attachment mechanism adapted to attach to a hoist apparatus. 21. A semiconductor wafer pod gripping device for gripping a semiconductor wafer pod having a flange extending from a pedestal on an upper surface of the pod, the gripping device comprising: a housing, a circular aperture formed in said housing, and an inwardly facing annular lip around said aperture below a top surface of said housing; a gripping element rotatably disposed within said housing above said lip to be supported by said lip, said gripping element comprising: a receptacle having inwardly facing edges configured to allow passage of the flange therethrough in a first orientation and further configured to support the flange on the inwardly facing edges upon rotation of said gripping element in said housing to a second orientation; a peripheral rim disposed within said housing above said lip, the rim sized to be supported by said lip, and a resilient support structure attached to said rim above said receptacle, the resilient support structure operable to flex upon application of a lifting force in opposition to a downwardly directed force from the object supported by the gripping element, whereby the gripping element frictionally rests upon said inwardly facing lip of said housing. 22. A method of engaging a payload comprising: providing a housing having an interior with a lip; disposing a rotatable gripping element having an aperture inside said housing; providing a flange attached to a payload and adapted to be disposed through said aperture; lowering said housing onto said payload such that said flange is disposed through said aperture; rotating said rotatable gripping element about a vertical axis such that edges of said aperture engage said flange; and raising said housing such that said edges contact and support said flange. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein said interior is circular. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said aperture is a polygon. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein said flange is a polygon having shorter sides than said aperture. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein said polygon is a square. 27. The method of claim 22 wherein said rotating step rotates said gripping element 45.degree.. 28. The method of claim 22 wherein said interior has a lip around a perimeter of said interior and said raising causes said lip to contact and support said rotatable gripping element. 