An intelligent sheet metal bending system is disclosed, having a cooperative generative planning system. A planning module interacts with several expert modules to develop a bending plan. The planning module utilizes a state-space search algorithm. Computerized methods are provided for selecting a robot gripper and a repo gripper, and for determining the optimal placement of such grippers as they are holding a workpiece being formed by the bending apparatus. Computerized methods are provided for selecting tooling to be used by the bending apparatus, and for determining a tooling stage layout. An operations planning method is provided which allows the bending apparatus to be set up concurrently while time-consuming calculations, such as motion planning, are performed. An additional method or system is provided for positioning tooling stages by using a backgage guide member which guides placement of a tooling stage along the die rail the bending apparatus. A method is provided for learning motion control offset values, and for eliminating the need for superfluous sensor-based control operations once the motion control offset values are known. The planning system may be used for facilitating functions such as design and assembly system, which may perform designing, costing, scheduling and/or manufacture and assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for generating a plan which comprises a sequence of operations to be performed by a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, said sequence of operations comprising a set of N bends for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: proposing means for proposing, for an Mth operation within the sequence of operations, a plurality of proposed operations including a plurality of proposed bends to be performed by said apparatus; and generating means for generating a plan including a sequence of bends from a first bend through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends. 2. A system for generating a plan which comprises a sequence of operations to be performed by a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, said sequence of operations comprising a set of N bends for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: proposing means for proposing, for an Mth operation within the sequence of operations, a plurality of proposed operations including a plurality of proposed bends to be performed by said apparatus; estimating means for estimating a cost to be associated with each proposed bend; and generating means for generating a plan including a sequence of bends from a first through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends and the estimated cost associated with each proposed bend. 3. The system according to claim 2, wherein said proposing means comprises means for proposing bends among the set of N bends that are still remaining. 4. The system according to claim 2, wherein said proposing means comprises means for proposing bends among the complete set of N bends that are still remaining less bends blocked due to constraints. 5. The system according to claim 2, further comprising means for representing the Mth operation within the sequence of operations as an Mth level of a search tree. 6. The system according to claim 2, wherein an estimated cost associated with an Nth bend in the sequence of N bends comprises a cost k calculated based upon an estimated amount of time it will take the bending apparatus to complete one or more operations of the bend. 7. The system according to claim 6, wherein the estimated cost associated with an Nth bend in the sequence of N bends comprises a cost h calculated based upon an estimated total amount of time it will take the bending apparatus to complete one or more operations of each of the rest of the bends in the bend sequence that follows the Nth bend. 8. The system according to claim 6, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise moving the workpiece from a tooling stage location of a preceding bend to a tooling stage location of the given bend. 9. The system according to claim 6, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise installing, when setting up the bending apparatus, a tooling stage to perform the given bend. 10. The system according to claim 2, wherein the estimated cost associated with an Nth bend in the sequence of N bends comprises a cost h calculated based upon an estimated total amount of time it will take the bending apparatus to complete one or more operations of each of the rest of the bends in the bend sequence that follows the Nth bend. 11. The system according to claim 10, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise moving the workpiece from a tooling stage location of a preceding bend to a tooling stage location of the given bend. 12. The system according to claim 10, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise installing, when setting up the bending apparatus, a tooling stage to perform the given bend. 13. The system according to claim 2, further comprising prioritizing means for prioritizing proposed bends in accordance with bend heuristics determined based upon the geometry of the workpiece. 14. The system according to claim 13, wherein said generating means generates a plan including a sequence of bends from a first through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the prioritized proposed bends and a proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend. 15. The system according to claim 13, wherein said prioritizing means comprises means for discounting an estimated cost of a bend having a high priority and increasing an estimated cost for a bend having a low priority. 16. The system according to claim 2, further comprising determining means for determining the time needed for, and the feasibility of, producing one or more workpieces with the bending apparatus based upon the generated plan. 17. The system according to claim 16, further comprising means for performing calculations of the cost of producing a predetermined number of the workpieces, based upon the time determined by said determining means. 18. The system according to claim 16, further comprising means for redesigning the workpiece based upon the time and feasibility determinations made by said determining means. 19. The system according to claim 16, further comprising means for scheduling manufacturing with the bending apparatus depending upon the determined amount of time for producing a number of workpieces. 20. The system according to claim 2, further comprising subplan means for providing a proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend. 21. The system according to claim 20, wherein the generated plan further includes at least part of the proposed subplans that accompany the chosen bends. 22. The system according to claim 21, wherein said proposed subplans comprise set-up and control information for said bending apparatus. 23. The system according to claim 21, wherein said proposed subplans comprise indications of tooling stages to be utilized to perform the bends of the sequence of bends. 24. The system according to claim 21, wherein said proposed subplans comprise locations of tooling stages to be utilized to perform the bends of the sequence of bends. 25. The system according to claim 21, wherein said proposed subplans comprise positions along a tooling stage at which the workpiece will be loaded into the bending apparatus in order to perform the bends of the sequence of bends. 26. The system according to claim 21, wherein said proposed subplans comprise motion plans for maneuvering around tooling stages in performing the bends of the sequence of bends. 27. The system according to claim 20, wherein said proposing means and said generating means collectively comprise a bend sequence planning module, and further wherein said subplan means and said estimating means collectively comprise a plurality of expert modules. 28. The system according to claim 27, wherein said expert modules each comprise means for operating said subplan means and said estimating means when said proposing means proposes a proposed operation for performance as said Mth operation within the sequence of operations. 29. The system according to claim 27, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a tooling expert module having means for operating said subplan means to provide a proposed tooling subplan that includes information regarding a position along a tooling stage at which the workpiece will be loaded into the bending apparatus in order to perform a given bend. 30. The system according to claim 27, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a tooling expert module having means for operating said estimating means to estimate a cost based upon an amount of time to install, when setting up the bending apparatus, a tooling stage to perform a given bend. 31. The system according to claim 27, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a motion expert module having means for operating said estimating means to estimate a cost based upon a calculated travel time for moving the workpiece from a tooling stage location of a given bend to a tooling stage location of a next bend. 32. The system according to claim 27, wherein said bend sequence planning module comprises means for querying each of said expert modules for a subplan and estimated costs, and wherein each of said expert modules comprises means for responding to a query by returning a save list to said bend sequence planning module, said save list comprising a list of attributes, and values respectively corresponding to the attributes, to be saved by said bend sequence planning module. 33. A system for generating a plan which comprises a sequence of operations to be performed by a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the bending apparatus having a gripper for gripping a workpiece while performing a bend, said sequence of operations comprising a set of N bends for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: proposing means for proposing, for an Mth operation within the sequence of operations, a plurality of proposed operations including a plurality of proposed bends to be performed by said apparatus; subplan means for providing a proposed subplan that accompanies each said proposed bend, said proposed subplan comprising setup and control information for said bending apparatus, said proposed subplan further comprising numbers, each of said numbers representing a predicted number of repositions of the gripper needed to complete a set of bends; and generating means for generating a plan including a sequence of bends from a first bend through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of bends based upon the proposed bends and the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend, said generated plan further comprising at least part of the proposed subplans that accompany the bends chosen by the generating means. 34. A system for generating a plan which comprises a sequence of operations to be performed by a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the bending apparatus having a gripper for gripping a workpiece while performing a bend, said sequence of operations comprising a set of N bends for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: a proposing system for proposing, for an Mth operation within the sequence of operations, a plurality of proposed operations including a plurality of proposed bends to be performed by said apparatus; a subplan system for providing a proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend, said proposed subplan comprising setup and control information for said bending apparatus; an estimating system for estimating a cost to be associated with each proposed bend; and generating system for generating a plan including a sequence of bends from a first through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends, the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend, and the estimated cost associated with each proposed bend. 35. The system according to claim 34, wherein said proposing system comprises a system for proposing bends among the set of N bends that are still remaining. 36. The system according to claim 34, wherein said proposing system comprises a system for proposing bends among the set of N bends that are still remaining less bends blocked due to constraints. 37. The system according to claim 34, said proposing system comprising a system for proposing, for an Mth operation, a repositioning of the gripper's hold on the workpiece. 38. The system according to claim 34, wherein the generated plan further includes at least part of the proposed subplans that accompany the bends chosen by the generating system. 39. The system according to claim 34, further comprising a system for representing the Mth operation within the sequence of operations as an Mth level of a search tree. 40. The system according to claim 34, wherein said proposed subplans comprise locations on the workpiece at which the gripper will grip the workpiece while performing the bends of the sequence of bends. 41. The system according to claim 34, wherein said proposed subplans comprise ranges of locations on the workpiece at which the gripper can grip the workpiece while performing the bends of the sequence of bends. 42. The system according to claim 34, wherein said proposed subplans comprise numbers, each representing a predicted number of repositions of the gripper needed to complete the sequence of bends. 43. The system according to claim 34, wherein said proposed subplans comprise indications that a next bend in the sequence of bends cannot be performed unless the location of the gripper on the workpiece is first repositioned. 44. The system according to claim 34, wherein said proposed subplans comprise locations on the workpiece at which a repositioning gripper will grip the workpiece while performing a repositioning operation between bends of the sequence of bends. 45. The system according to claim 34, wherein said proposed subplans comprise indications of tooling stages to be utilized to perform the bends of the sequence of bends. 46. The system according to claim 34, wherein said proposed subplans comprise locations of tooling stages to be utilized to perform the bends of the sequence of bends. 47. The system according to claim 34, wherein said proposed subplans comprise positions along a tooling stage at which the workpiece will be loaded into the bending apparatus in order to perform the bends of the sequence of bends. 48. The system according to claim 34, wherein said proposed subplans comprise motion plans for maneuvering around tooling stages in performing the bends of the sequence of bends. 49. The system according to claim 34, wherein said proposing system and said generating system collectively comprise a bend sequence planning module, and wherein said subplan system and said estimating system collectively comprise a plurality of expert modules. 50. The system according to claim 49, wherein said expert modules each comprise a system for operating said subplan system and said estimating system when said proposing system proposes a proposed operation as said Mth operation within the sequence of operations. 51. The system according to claim 49, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a holding expert module having a system for operating said subplan system to provide a proposed holding subplan that includes information regarding a location on the workpiece at which the gripper can grip the workpiece while performing the bends of the bend sequence. 52. The system according to claim 49, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a holding expert module having a system for operating said estimating system to estimate a holding cost calculated based upon whether a hold of a gripper on the workpiece is to be repositioned before performing a given bend. 53. The system according to claim 49, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a tooling expert module having a system for operating said subplan system to provide a proposed tooling subplan that includes information regarding a position along a tooling stage at which the workpiece will be loaded into the bending apparatus in order to perform a given bend. 54. The system according to claim 49, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a tooling expert module having a system for operating said estimating system to estimate a cost based upon an amount of time to install, when setting up the bending apparatus, an additional tooling stage to perform a given bend. 55. The system according to claim 49, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a motion expert module having a system for operating said estimating system to estimate a cost based upon a calculated travel time for moving the workpiece from a tooling stage location of a bend to a tooling stage location of a next bend. 56. The system according to claim 49, wherein said bend sequence planning module comprises a system for querying each of said expert modules for a subplan and estimated costs, and wherein each of said expert modules comprises a system for responding to a query by returning a save list to said bend sequence planning module, said save list comprising a list of names of attributes, and values respectively corresponding to the attributes, to be saved by said bend sequence planning module. 57. The system according to claim 34, further comprising a prioritizing system for prioritizing proposed bends in accordance with bend heuristics determined based upon the geometry of the workpiece. 58. The system according to claim 57, wherein said generating system generates a plan including a sequence of bends from a first through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the prioritized proposed bends and the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend. 59. The system according to claim 57, wherein said prioritizing system comprises a system for discounting an estimated cost of a bend having a high priority and increasing an estimated cost for a bend having a low priority. 60. The system according to claim 34, further comprising a determining system for determining the time needed for, and the feasibility of, producing one or more workpieces with the bending apparatus based upon the generated plan. 61. The system according to claim 60, further comprising a system for performing a calculation of the cost of producing a plurality of the workpieces, based upon the time determined by said determining system. 62. The system according to claim 60, further comprising a system for redesigning the workpiece based upon the time and feasibility determinations made by said determining system. 63. The system according to claim 60, further comprising a system for scheduling operations with the bending apparatus depending upon the determined amount of time for producing said one or more workpieces. 64. A system for generating a plan and for controlling a bending apparatus, the plan comprising a sequence of operations to be performed by the bending apparatus, the bending apparatus being adapted to bend workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the sequence of operations comprising a sequence of bends, from a first bend through an Nth bend, for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: a setup planning system for generating said sequence of bends and a setup subplan, said setup subplan comprising setup and control information for said bending apparatus, said setup and control information including information regarding a manner in which the bending apparatus is to be setup before commencing the first bend in said sequence of bends; a forwarding system for forwarding said setup subplan, to a signaling system for signaling commencement of setup operations to be performed in accordance with said setup subplan; and a finalizing system for generating detailed subplan information to complete said plan after said setup subplan has been generated, at least part of said detailed subplan information being generated after the commencement of setup operations has been signaled by said signaling system, wherein said setup subplan comprises positions of tooling stages along a die rail of said bending apparatus. 65. A system for generating a plan and for controlling a bending apparatus, the plan comprising a sequence of operations to be performed by the bending apparatus, the bending apparatus being adapted to bend workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the sequence of operations comprising a sequence of bends, from a first bend through an Nth bend, for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: a setup planning system for generating said sequence of bends and a setup subplan, said setup subplan comprising setup and control information for said bending apparatus, said setup and control information including information regarding a manner in which the bending apparatus is to be setup before commencing the first bend in said sequence of bends; a forwarding system for forwarding said setup subplan, to a signaling system for signaling commencement of setup operations to be performed in accordance with said setup subplan; and a finalizing system for generating detailed subplan information to complete said plan after said setup subplan has been generated, at least part of said detailed subplan information being generated after the commencement of setup operations has been signaled by said signaling system, wherein said setup subplan comprises information regarding a type of gripper to use for manipulating the workpiece through the bend sequence. 66. A system for generating a plan and for controlling a bending apparatus, the plan comprising a sequence of operations to be performed by the bending apparatus, the bending apparatus being adapted to bend workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the sequence of operations comprising a sequence of bends, from a first bend through an Nth bend, for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: a setup planning system for generating said sequence of bends and a setup subplan, said setup subplan comprising setup and control information for said bending apparatus, said setup and control information including information regarding a manner in which the bending apparatus is to be setup before commencing the first bend in said sequence of bends; a forwarding system for forwarding said setup subplan, to a signaling system for signaling commencement of setup operations to be performed in accordance with said setup subplan; and a finalizing system for generating detailed subplan information to complete said plan after said setup subplan has been generated, at least part of said detailed subplan information being generated after the commencement of setup operations has been signaled by said signaling system, wherein said setup subplan comprises information regarding a type of repo gripper to use for holding the workpiece while a gripper changes a grip on the workpiece between bends of the bend sequence. 67. A system for performing setup operations on a bending apparatus so that the bending apparatus can be utilized to perform bending operations on workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the bending apparatus comprising a die rail, a tool punch holding mechanism, and one or more tooling stages, each tooling stage comprising a die mounted on said die rail and a tool punch held by said punch holding mechanism, said system comprising: a system for receiving information regarding a location of each of said one or more tooling stages along said die rail; and a control system for controlling a position of a guide member along at least one of said die rail and said tool punch holding mechanism based upon the received information so that at least one of said die and said tool punch can be aligned with reference to said guide member so that the resulting tooling stage will be at a desired location along said die rail. 68. The system according to claim 67, wherein said guide member comprises a backgage finger of a mechanism for performing backgaging when loading a workpiece into the bending apparatus. 69. A system for executing a plan for controlling a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the plan comprising a sequence of operations to be performed by the bending apparatus, said system comprising: a sensor-based control system for performing an operation, including movement of a workpiece from one position to another position, said bending apparatus utilizing a sensor output to modify movement of the workpiece; a measuring system for measuring an amount by which movement of the workpiece was modified due to the sensor output; and a learned control system for performing said operation, including moving the workpiece from one position to another position, without modifying movement of the workpiece utilizing a sensor output, said learned control system controlling performance of said operation based upon the amount measured by said measuring system. 70. A system for generating a plan which comprises a sequence of operations to be performed by a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, said sequence of operations comprising a set of N bends for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: proposing means for proposing, for an Mth operation within the sequence of operations, a plurality of proposed operations including a plurality of proposed bends to be performed by said bending apparatus; prioritizing means for prioritizing proposed bends in accordance with bend heuristics determined based upon the geometry of the workpiece; and generating means for generating a plan including a sequence of bends from a first bend through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends. 71. The system according to claim 70, wherein said generating means generates a plan including a sequence of bends from a first through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the prioritized proposed bends. 72. A system for generating a plan which comprises a sequence of operations to be performed by a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the bending apparatus having a gripper for gripping a workpiece while performing a bend, said sequence of operations comprising a set of N bends for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: a proposing system for proposing, for an Mth operation within the sequence of operations, a plurality of proposed operations including a plurality of proposed bends to be performed by said apparatus; a subplan system for providing a proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend; a generating system for generating a plan including a sequence of bends from a first bend through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends and the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend; and an estimating system for estimating a cost to be associated with each proposed bend, wherein said generating system generates a plan including a sequence of bends from a first through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends, the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend, and the estimated cost associated with each proposed bend, wherein the estimated cost associated with an Nth bend in the sequence of N bends comprises a cost k calculated based upon an estimated amount of time it will take the bending apparatus to complete one or more operations of the bend. 73. A system for generating a plan which comprises a sequence of operations to be performed by a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the bending apparatus having a gripper for gripping a workpiece while performing a bend, said sequence of operations comprising a set of N bends for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: a proposing system for proposing, for an Mth operation within the sequence of operations, a plurality of proposed operations including a plurality of proposed bends to be performed by said apparatus; a subplan system for providing a proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend; a generating system for generating a plan including a sequence of bends from a first bend through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends and the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend; and a estimating system for estimating a cost to be associated with each proposed bend, wherein said generating system generates a plan including a sequence of bends from a first through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends, the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend, and the estimated cost associated with each proposed bend, wherein the estimated cost associated with an Nth bend in the sequence of N bends comprises a cost h calculated based upon an estimated total amount of time it will take the bending apparatus to complete one or more operations of each of the rest of the bends in the bend sequence that follow the Nth bend. 74. The system according to claim 72, wherein the estimated cost associated with an Nth bend in the sequence of N bends further comprises a cost h calculated based upon an estimated total amount of time it will take the bending apparatus to complete one or more operations of each of the rest of the bends in the bend sequence that follow the Nth bend. 75. The system according to claim 72, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise moving the workpiece from a tooling stage location of a preceding bend to a tooling stage location of the given bend. 76. The system according to claim 72, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise installing, when setting up the bending apparatus, an additional tooling stage that will be needed to perform the given bend. 77. The system according to claim 72, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise repositioning of the hold of the gripper on the workpiece before performing the given bend. 78. The system according to claim 73, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise moving the workpiece from a tooling stage location of a preceding bend to a tooling stage location of the given bend. 79. The system according to claim 73, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise initialing, when setting up the bending apparatus, an additional tooling stage that will be needed to perform the given bend. 