A wafer polishing tool is disclosed which includes a polishing platen which is rotatable about a central platen axis, and a wafer carrier which supports a wafer for rotational movement to cause a portion of a surface of the wafer to only intermittently contact a polishing surface of the platen while the wafer rotates. The polishing tool may include a plurality of vertically stacked polishing platens which are rotatable about a central platen axis, and a plurality of stacked wafer carriers, wherein each carrier supports a wafer for rotational movement and vertical movement into contact with one of the polishing platens. During polishing, the carrier pack maintains the wafers in uninterrupted contact with the platen over less than entire surfaces of the wafers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a polishing platen rotatable about a central platen axis; a wafer carrier adapted to support a wafer for rotational movement to cause a portion of a surface of said wafer to only intermittently contact a polishing surface of said platen while said wafer rotates during polishing, while a center of said wafer at least intermittently contacts said polishing surface during said polishing; a brush, other than said polishing platen, adapted to contact said wafer. 2. The wafer polishing tool of claim 1 wherein said brush is driven opposite a direction of wafer rotation. 3. The wafer polishing tool of claim 1 wherein said polishing surface of said platen downwardly faces said wafer carrier, said wafer polishing tool further including an applicator adapted to supply a liquid to said polishing surface. 4. The wafer polishing tool of claim 3 wherein said applicator includes a porous element through which said liquid is supplied. 5. The wafer polishing tool of claim 4 wherein said porous element engages said polishing platen. 6. The wafer polishing tool of claim 3 wherein said applicator is adapted to supply a polishing slurry to said polishing surface. 7. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a polishing platen rotatable about a central platen axis, said polishing platen having a downwardly facing polishing surface; a wafer carrier adapted to support a wafer for rotational movement to cause a portion of a surface of said wafer to only intermittently contact said polishing surface while said wafer rotates during polishing, while a center of said wafer at least intermittently contacts said polishing surface during said polishing; and an applicator adapted to upwardly supply a liquid to said polishing surface. 8. The wafer polishing tool of claim 7 wherein said applicator includes a porous element through which said liquid is supplied. 9. The wafer polishing tool of claim 8 wherein said porous element engages said polishing platen. 10. The wafer polishing tool of claim 9 wherein said applicator is adapted to supply a polishing slurry to said polishing surface. 11. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a polishing platen rotatable about a central platen axis, said polishing platen having a downwardly facing polishing surface; a wafer carrier adapted to support a wafer for rotational movement to cause a portion of a surface of said wafer to only intermittently contact said polishing surface while said wafer rotates during polishing, while a center of said wafer at least intermittently contacts said polishing surface during said polishing; an optical detector positioned above said wafer at a location other than said polishing platen, said optical detector adapted to form an image of said wafer while said wafer rotates during polishing; a strobe light positioned above said wafer to fix said image of said rotating wafer in position. 12. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 wherein said optical detector provides measurement data for feedback to at least one of an operator or automated control over the polishing process. 13. The wafer polishing tool of claim 11 wherein said optical detector provides endpoint detection data. 14. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a polishing platen rotatable about a central platen axis; a wafer carrier adapted to support a wafer for rotational movement to cause a portion of a surface of said wafer to only intermittently contact a polishing surface of said polishing platen while said wafer rotates during polishing, while a center of said wafer at least intermittently contacts said polishing surface during said polishing; a rail for permitting relative movement of said polishing platen and said wafer carrier between a platen engaged position and a platen disengaged position. 15. The wafer polishing tool of claim 14 wherein relative oscillating motion between said polishing platen and said wafer is imparted in a direction of said rail. 16. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a polishing platen rotatable about a central platen axis; a wafer carrier adapted to support a wafer for rotational movement to cause a portion of a surface of said wafer to only intermittently contact a polishing surface of said polishing platen while said wafer rotates during polishing, while a center of said wafer at least intermittently contacts said polishing surface during said polishing; said wafer carrier including a pivotable frame member, said pivotable frame member permitting said wafer carrier to pivot between a platen engaged position and a platen disengaged position. 17. The wafer polishing tool of claim 16 wherein relative oscillating motion between said wafer and said polishing platen is imparted in a direction about said pivotable frame member. 18. A wafer polishing tool, comprising: a polishing platen rotatable about a central platen axis; a wafer carrier adapted to support a wafer for rotational movement to cause a portion of a surface of said wafer to only intermittently contact a polishing surface of said polishing platen while said wafer rotates during polishing, while a center of said wafer at least intermittently contacts said polishing surface during said polishing; a voice coil motor coupled to apply a vertical force to bring said wafer carrier and said polishing platen in contact with each other. 19. The wafer polishing tool of claim 18 further comprising a force transducer providing a measurement of wafer to platen polishing pressure as a feedback signal to said voice coil motor. 