A multi-level shelf degas station relying on at least two heaters integrated within wafer holding shelves or slots, where the semiconductor wafers do not have direct contact with the heater shelves. The heaters provide conduction heating. In order to degas a wafer, the heater and wafer holder assembly is positioned in a sequential manner through each wafer slot to the next available slot. If a degassed wafer exists in the slot, a transfer chamber arm removes it. A loader arm then places a wafer in the available, empty slot and the stage is moved upwards to receive the wafer from the loader arm. The transfer chamber arm removes an individual wafer from the heater and wafer holder assembly allowing the removed wafer to be individually processed while the other wafers remain in the heater and wafer holder assembly. In some instances, a loader arm may also remove wafers. The remaining wafers in the heater and wafer holder assembly are subjected to further degas treatment while the wafer(s) removed by the transfer chamber arm are exposed to other process steps. Air-cooling chambers are employed to facilitate cooling the wafer slots for ease of removal and maintenance.
Claims Thus, having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. A method of degassing semiconductor wafers in a multi-station degas apparatus, comprising: lowering a heater and wafer holder assembly stack having slots for individual semiconductor wafers into a transfer/load chamber; loading a wafer into said heater and wafer holder assembly slot; removing at least one wafer from said heater and wafer holder assembly slot, such that the removed wafer may be individually processed while other wafers remain in said heater and wafer holder assembly; and, positioning said heater and wafer holder assembly into a degas chamber for degas treatment while the at least one removed wafer is exposed to other process steps in other stations of said multi station degas apparatus. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: monitoring the temperature inside said slots through thermocouple channels from said heater and wafer holder assembly stack, monitoring and displaying said temperature using a user interface electrical connection. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said degas treatment further includes heating said wafers by conduction and radiation heating using resistive heating elements in each of said heaters of said heater and wafer holder assembly stack. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein loading said wafer comprises loading a single wafer at a time using a load robotic arm. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein removing a wafer comprises removing a single wafer at a time using a transfer robotic arm. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein removing a wafer comprises removing a single wafer at a time using a transfer robotic arm and a load robotic arm. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said degas treatment comprises increasing the internal pressure of said degas chamber to above 1 Torr. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising introducing helium and argon gases to said degas chamber to increase said internal pressure. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising isolating said wafers to be degassed by sealing said heater and wafer holder assembly within said degas chamber using a vacuum o-ring seal. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising air cooling said heaters in said heater and wafer holder assembly stack to enable faster access to the assembly for maintenance purposes. 11. A method of degassing semiconductor wafers in a multi-station degas apparatus, comprising: positioning a heater and wafer holder assembly stage having a plurality of wafer slots in a sequential manner through each of said wafer slots to the next available wafer slot; removing a first of a plurality of wafers from one of said wafer slots using a transfer robotic arm after said wafer has been subjected to a degas treatment in a degas chamber; re-positioning said heater and wafer holder assembly stage to receive a second wafer from said loader robotic arm; loading said second wafer in an available wafer slot using said loader robotic arm after said first wafer has been removed; retracting said robotic arms; sealing said heater and wafer holder assembly stage into said degas chamber; and degassing said second wafer in said heater and wafer holder assembly while said first wafer is subjected to other process stations within said multi-station degas apparatus. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising lowering said heater and wafer holder assembly stage after process gases have been removed from said degas chamber and a predetermined base transfer pressure has been attained. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said degas process steps are repeated until each of said plurality of wafers in said heater and wafer holder assembly slots has been degassed and processed. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein said degassing of said wafers further comprises: closing a vacuum pump isolation valve; introducing process gases; initiating a timer; controlling pressure in said degas chamber; and, opening a by-pass valve after said degas chamber reaches a predetermined internal pressure. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said process gases include helium and argon gases. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising pumping down said degas apparatus using a point-of-use roughing pump. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein said introduction of said process gases is ceased when said timer reaches a predetermined timed value. 18. The method of claim 17 further including opening a vacuum valve at said predetermined timed value to remove said gas in said degas chamber. 19. A multi-station degas apparatus for semiconductor wafer processing, comprising: a process degas chamber; a load/transfer chamber; a heater and wafer holder assembly stack having a plurality of slots, said heater and wafer holder assembly stack positionable within said degas chamber and said load/transfer chamber; a conduction heater in each of said plurality of slots for individual conduction heating of said wafers, a vertical motion bar and platform capable of moving said heater and wafer holder assembly stack to and from said chambers; at least two robotic arms for placing and removing wafers from said heater and wafer holder assembly stack; gas inlets for introducing process gases to said degas chamber; an o-ring positioned to seal said heater and wafer holder assembly stack and said platform when said heater and wafer holder assembly stack is raised into said degas chamber; a turbo-pump to extract water vapor and other contaminants from said degas chamber; and, pressure, temperature and positioning control devices. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said robotic arms are capable of accessing each station of said multi-station degas apparatus. 21. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising servo positioning electronics to position and control the location of said heater and wafer holder assembly stack and said robotic arms. 22. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said conduction heater comprises a heater stack having a plurality of individual heater plates, and provides for radiation heating along with conduction heating. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said heater plates are powered by a single power source input to said heater and wafer holder assembly stack. 24. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said multi-station degas chamber comprises a plurality of stations, including one of said stations for degassing. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 further comprising a motion controller to control the positioning said robotic arms. 26. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said conduction heater further comprises an air-cooling channel running therethrough. 27. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising a point-of-use roughing pump to pump down said chamber. 28. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising retractable pins for placing said wafers on said heater and wafer holder assembly stack. 