An apparatus for processing a workpiece in a micro-environment is set forth. The apparatus includes a rotor motor and a workpiece housing. The workpiece housing is connected to be rotated by the rotor motor. The workpiece housing further defines a substantially closed processing chamber therein in which one or more processing fluids are distributed across at least one face of the workpiece by centripetal acceleration generated during rotation of the housing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: an upper chamber plate member engageable with a lower chamber plate member to form a processing chamber; an upper inlet extending through the upper chamber plate member for providing a fluid to an upper surface of the workpiece; a lower inlet extending through the lower chamber plate member for providing a fluid to a lower surface of the workpiece; and at least one fluid outlet in the workpiece housing positioned to allow escape of fluid from the workpiece housing, by centrifugal force generated by rotating the workpiece housing. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a rotor connected to the workpiece housing. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 with the upper chamber member and a lower chamber member linearly movable together to form the processing chamber and linearly movable apart for loading and unloading a workpiece. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the workpiece housing comprises a pod removable from the rotor for transport separate from the rotor, and attachable to the rotor, for processing a workpiece, and with the upper and lower inlets aligning with upper and lower fluid sources, for delivering fluids into the workpiece housing. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 with the processing chamber formed with interstitial regions between the upper and lower surfaces of the workpiece and the upper and lower chamber members, to closely confine processing fluids introduced into the processing chamber around the workpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the processing chamber generally conforms to the shape of the workpiece. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the upper and lower chamber members have flat and parallel interior surfaces, further comprising: at least one workpiece support adapted to support a workpiece in the processing chamber in a position spaced from and generally parallel to the interior surfaces of the upper and lower chamber members. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the upper inlet is positioned for supplying a first fluid across substantially the entire upper surface of the workpiece; and the lower inlet is positioned for supplying a second fluid across substantially the entire lower surface of the workpiece. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a dividing member in the processing chamber about a peripheral edge of the workpiece, with the dividing member separating distribution flow of the first and second fluid flows, whereby the first fluid flow is principally limited to contacting the upper face of the workpiece and the second fluid flow is principally limited to contacting the lower face of the workpiece. 10. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: an upper chamber member having an upper fluid inlet opening; a lower chamber member having a lower fluid inlet opening; the upper chamber member and the lower chamber member engageable to one another to form a processing chamber generally conforming to the shape of the workpiece, the processing chamber having at least one fluid outlet at a peripheral region thereof; at least one workpiece support adapted to support a workpiece in the processing chamber, in a position to allow distribution of a fluid supplied through the upper inlet across at least the upper face of the workpiece, via centrifugal force and to allow distribution of a fluid supplied through the lower inlet across at least the lower face of the workpiece, via centrifugal force, the at least one fluid outlet positioned to allow escape of fluid from the processing chamber through action of centrifugal force. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising a peripheral edge structure facilitating mutually exclusive processing of the upper and lower workpiece surfaces. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the workpiece is a generally circular semiconductor wafer and wherein the inlet openings of the upper and lower chamber members are generally aligned with the center of the semiconductor wafer. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising one or more fasteners connecting the upper and lower chamber members, the one or more fasteners adapted to allow relative movement between the upper and lower chamber members for accessing the processing chamber to insert and/or extract a workpiece. 14. A method for processing a workpiece comprising: opening a processing chamber of a workpiece housing; placing the workpiece into the processing chamber; closing the processing chamber by moving a surface of the workpiece housing towards the workpiece, and into a position where the surface of the workpiece housing is closely adjacent to the workpiece, to help control fluid flow over the workpiece; providing a flow of fluid into the processing chamber, while the processing chamber is closed; and rotating the workpiece housing to generate centrifugal acceleration that distributes the flow of fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece. 15. A method for processing a workpiece having upper and lower generally planar surfaces, the method comprising: placing the workpiece in a processing chamber; providing a first fluid to a first surface of the workpiece; rotating the processing chamber containing the workpiece; confining the fluid to the surface of the workpiece via a processing chamber wall adjacent to the workpiece. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the first and second flows of fluid are supplied concurrently. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of separating the first and second flows of fluid so that the first flow of fluid principally contacts the upper surface of the workpiece and the second flow of fluid principally contacts the lower surface of the workpiece. 18. An apparatus for batch processing of a plurality of workpieces, comprising: a plurality of workpiece housings, each connected for rotation about a common rotation axis, each of the workpiece housings including a processing chamber having an upper inlet passing through an upper chamber member and a lower inlet passing through a lower chamber member. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 further comprising: a stationary manifold; a rotating manifold having an input connected to receive fluid from the outlet of the stationary manifold; a plurality of fluid supply lines extending from and connected to the rotating manifold and terminating at one or more fluid outlets proximate the inlets of the processing chambers. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the rotating manifold is connected for co-rotation with the workpiece housings. 21. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a housing including a clean master chamber; a robotic arm in the clean master chamber and adapted to convey the workpiece; a plurality of workpiece processing stations in the clean master chamber at positions accessible by the robotic arm, at least one of the workpiece processing stations comprising: a workpiece housing having upper and lower chamber plate members joinable to form a process chamber, with an upper inlet extending through the upper chamber plate member and with the lower inlet extending through the lower chamber plate member, and at least one fluid outlet at a peripheral area of the workpiece housing. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the workpiece housing is a transportable pod. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the workpiece housing comprises: an upper chamber member having an interior upper chamber face with the upper inlet, in the interior upper chamber face; a lower chamber member having an interior lower chamber face, with the lower inlet in the interior lower chamber face; the upper chamber and the lower chamber members joined to form a processing chamber generally conforming to the shape of the workpiece. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the workpiece housing further comprises: a plurality of upper workpiece supports on the upper chamber member; a plurality of lower workpiece supports on the lower chamber; with the upper and lower workpiece supports supporting the workpiece in a position spaced from and generally parallel to the interior chamber faces of the upper and lower chamber members. 25. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising a dividing member in the processing chamber about a peripheral edge of the workpiece, at a position where the dividing member separates distribution flow of the first and second fluid flows, whereby a first fluid flow from the upper inlet is principally limited to contacting the upper face of the workpiece and a second fluid flow from the lower inlet is principally limited to contacting the lower face of the workpiece. 26. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: an enclosure for enclosing a workpiece; first inlet means for supplying a first fluid to a first side of the workpiece; second inlet means, opposite the first inlet means, for supplying a second fluid to a second side of the workpiece; outlet means for removing fluid from the enclosure, via centrifugal force; and means for rotating the enclosure. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 with the enclosure further comprising upper and lower chamber members, a plurality of springs biasing the upper and lower chamber members together, and an actuator movable against the force of the springs to separate the upper and lower chamber members to thereby allow insertion and extraction of a workpiece for processing. 28. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein the enclosure comprises fluid dividing means for separating flow of the first and second fluid flows, whereby the first fluid flow is principally limited to contacting the upper surface of the workpiece and the second fluid flow is principally limited to contacting the lower surface of the workpiece. 29. A workpiece housing for holding or transporting a flat workpiece, comprising: a first chamber member having a solid first interior chamber face; a first fluid inlet in the first interior chamber face; a second chamber member having a solid second interior chamber face; a second fluid inlet in the second interior chamber face; the first chamber member and the second chamber member engaging each other, to form a processing chamber; sidewalls on the first chamber member projecting towards the second chamber member; and an outlet at a peripheral region of the processing chamber. 30. The workpiece housing of claim 29 further comprising an outer flange on the first chamber member. 31. The workpiece housing of claim 29 further comprising attaching means on one of the first and second chamber members, for attaching the workpiece housing to a spin motor. 32. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a workpiece housing including an upper chamber member and a lower chamber member; at least one fluid inlet in the workpiece housing for providing a fluid onto the workpiece; at least one fluid outlet at a peripheral region of the workpiece housing to allow removal of fluid from the workpiece housing; at least one workpiece support, movable relative to the lower chamber member, and adapted to support a workpiece in the workpiece housing in a position spaced apart from the upper and lower chamber members, to allow distribution of a fluid across at least part of an upper or lower face of the workpiece. 33. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a first chamber member; at least one fluid inlet extending through the first chamber member; a second chamber member, with the first and second chamber members movable relative to each other into a closed position, where the first and second chamber members form a processing chamber conforming to the shape of the workpiece, and into an open position, where the first and second chamber members are spaced apart, to allow loading and unloading of a workpiece; and at least one fluid outlet in the processing chamber positioned to allow removal of fluid from the processing chamber by centrifugal force. 