An assemblage of robotic modules includes a plurality of robotic modules, with each robotic module having memory capability, an actuator, a joint position sensor, and communication means. The assemblage of robotic modules also includes a distributed control unit, which is defined at least in part by a plurality of individual central processing units, with each robotic joint module having at least one central processing unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assemblage of robotic joint modules for a robotic toy construction system, the assemblage comprising: a plurality of robotic joint modules, each said robotic joint module having memory capability, an actuator, a joint sensor, communications means, and a central processing unit; and a distributed control unit defined at least in part by a plurality of individual central processing units, wherein each one of said robotic joint modules includes at least one said central processing unit. 2. The assemblage of robotic joint modules according to claim 1, wherein said robotic joint modules further comprise an audio/visual display. 3. The assemblage of robotic joint modules according to claim 1, wherein said robotic joint modules further comprise a plurality of sensing devices. 4. A method for programming an assemblage of robotic joint modules for a toy construction system, wherein each said robotic joint module includes a central processing unit, memory capability, an actuator, a joint position sensor, and communication means, the method comprising: providing an initiating signal to the assemblage of robotic joint modules; moving at least one robotic joint module to a first desired position; storing each said first position within each corresponding said central processing unit of each said robotic joint modules; moving at least one robotic joint module to a second desired position; storing each said second position within each corresponding said central processing unit of each said robotic joint module; and repeating the sequence of moving selected robotic joint modules to selected desired positions and storing each said desired position within each corresponding said central processing unit of each said robotic joint module until a full sequence of desired positions is obtained. 5. The method for programming an assemblage of robotic joint modules according to claim 4, further comprising editing the sequence of movements. 6. The method for programming an assemblage of robotic joint modules according to claim 4, wherein storing said position comprises receiving a signal from a sensor. 7. The method for programming an assemblage of robotic joint modules according to claim 6, wherein storing said position comprises receiving a signal from an infrared sensor. 8. The method for programming an assemblage of robotic joint modules according to claim 6, wherein storing said position comprises receiving a signal from a radio signal sensor. 9. The method for programming an assemblage of robotic joint modules according to claim 6, wherein storing said position comprises recording a position at specified time intervals. 10. The method for programing an assemblage of robotic joint modules according to claim 6, wherein storing said position comprises sensing the cessation of motion of the robotic joint module. 11. The method for programming an assemblage of robotic joint modules according to claim 4, further comprising a gait control table for controlling the assemblage of robotic joint modules between said poses. 12. The method for programming an assemblage of robotic joint modules according to claim 4, wherein the assemblage of robotic joint modules comprises subsets of modules. 13. The method for programming an assemblage of robotic joint modules according to claim 12, wherein each said subset of robotic joint modules is programmed independently of each other said subset of robotic joint modules. 14. The assemblage of robotic joint modules according to claim 1, further including a non-backdrivable transmission with torque-limited clutch. 15. A method for coordinating motions of an assemblage of robotic joint modules for a toy construction system, wherein each said robotic joint module includes a central processing unit, memory capability, an actuator, a joint position sensor, and communication means, the method comprising: programming each robotic joint module with its own sequence of positions; providing a signal to all robotic joint modules in the assemblage simultaneously; interpreting said signal by each of the central processing units included within each of the robotic joint modules; and directing each robotic joint module to execute its own said sequence of positions simultaneously with the other robotic joint modules in the assemblage of robotic joint modules. 16. The method for coordinating motions of an assemblage of robotic joint modules for a toy construction system according to claim 15, wherein said sequence of positions is stored in one module and communicated to each of the robotic joint modules during execution of the sequence of positions. 17. The method for coordinating motions of an assemblage of robotic joint modules for a toy construction system according to claim 15, wherein the sequence of positions is stored in subsets of robotic joint modules. 18. A method for coordinating motions of multiple assemblages of robotic joint modules for a toy construction system wherein each said robotic joint module includes a central processing unit, memory capability, an actuator, a joint position sensor, and communication means, the method comprising: programming a first assemblage of robotic joint modules with a sequence of positions; providing a signal from the first assemblage of robotic joint modules to other assemblages of robotic joint modules; interpreting said signal by each of the central processing units included within each of the robotic joint modules within each said other assemblages of robotic joint modules; and directing each said other assemblages of robotic joint module to execute said sequence of positions. 