A material handling and transport system and process for moving a substrate carrier between storage and processing destinations are provided. The system includes a vehicle that runs on a support structure, such as a pathway or a track assembly supported on the floor, which may be in a pressurized tunnel. A carrier nest on the vehicle receives and supports the carrier. A lifting mechanism on the vehicle vertically raises and lowers the carrier nest. A load port support surface is disposed vertically above the support structure. The carrier is raised through an opening in the load port support surface. A load port nest on the load port support surface receives and supports the carrier adjacent a selected destination. A carrier manipulation mechanism manipulates the carrier over the load port nest. The lifting mechanism then lowers the carrier onto the load port nest. The system is particularly suited for handling and transporting semiconductor wafer carriers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A material handling and transport system for moving material supported by a carrier between storage and processing destinations, comprising: a vehicle configured to run on a support structure and comprising: a carrier nest configured to receive and support a carrier capable of holding a material to be transported, the carrier nest comprising a plurality of pins configured to mate with corresponding recesses on a bottom surface of the carrier; and a lifting mechanism operative to vertically raise and lower the carrier nest; a load port support surface disposed vertically above the support structure, an opening provided in the load port support surface sized to allow vertical passage of the carrier therethrough; a load port nest on the load port support surface configured to receive and support the carrier adjacent a selected destination; and a carrier manipulation mechanism operative to manipulate the carrier from a raised position on the carrier nest and elevated through the opening in the support surface to a load position on the load port nest. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the support structure comprises a pathway defined on a floor. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the support structure comprises a track assembly supported on a floor. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the track assembly comprises a single track. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle further comprises a truck configured to run on the support structure, and a chassis supported on the truck. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the vehicle further includes a plurality of trucks configured to run on the support structure. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the lifting mechanism comprises a scissors lift mechanism. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the carrier nest conforms to SEMI E57 standard. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein: the carrier manipulation mechanism comprises a linkage operable to move the carrier nest from the raised position to a position over the load port nest; and the load port support surface further includes arcuate slots therein to allow passage of protruding portions of the carrier nest therethrough during movement of the vehicle. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein: the carrier nest on the vehicle is configured to transport the carrier with an access face of the carrier parallel to the direction of travel along the track and; the carrier manipulation mechanism is configured to maintain the access face parallel to the direction of travel during movement of the carrier over the load port nest. 11. The system of claim 1, further comprising an elevator assembly to lift a vehicle over or under a floor level. 12. A material handling and transport system for moving material supported by a carrier between storage and processing destinations, comprising; a vehicle configured to run on a support structure and comprising: a carrier nest configured to receive and support a carrier capable of holding a material to be transported, wherein the carrier nest maintains the carrier at an incline configured to prevent material in the carrier from falling out of an opening in the carrier during transport and handling, and a lifting mechanism operative to vertically raise and lower the carrier nest; a load port support surface disposed vertically above the support structure, an opening provided in the load port support surface sized to allow vertical passage of the carrier therethrough; a load port nest on the load port support surface configured to receive and support the carrier adjacent a selected destination; and a carrier manipulation mechanism operative to manipulate the carrier from a raised position on the carrier nest and elevated through the opening in the support surface to a load position on the load port nest. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the incline is 5.degree. from horizontal. 14. A material handling and transport system for moving material supported by a carrier between storage and processing destinations, comprising: a vehicle configured to run on a support structure and comprising: a carrier nest configured to receive and support a carrier capable of holding a material to be transported, and a lifting mechanism operative to vertically raise and lower the carrier nest; a load port support surface disposed vertically above the support structure, an opening provided in the load port support surface sized to allow vertical passage of the carrier therethrough; a load port nest on the load port support surface configured to receive and support the carrier adjacent a selected destination; and a carrier manipulation mechanism operative to manipulate the carrier from a raised position on the carrier nest and elevated through the opening in the support surface to a load position on the load port nest; wherein the carrier manipulation mechanism comprises an actuator attached to the lifting mechanism and operable to rotate the carrier nest from the raised position to a position over the load port nest; and the load port support surface further includes arcuate slots therein to allow passage of protruding portions of the carrier nest therethrough during rotation of the vehicle. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the carrier nest on the vehicle is configured to transport the carrier with an access face of the carrier at an angle to the direction of travel along the track. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the angle is 45.degree.. 17. A material handling and transport system for moving material supported by a carrier between storage and processing destinations, comprising: a vehicle configured to run on a support structure and comprising: a carrier nest configured to receive and support a carrier capable of holding a material to be transported, and a lifting mechanism operative to vertically raise and lower the carrier nest; a load port support surface disposed vertically above the support structure, an opening provided in the load port support surface sized to allow vertical passage of the carrier therethrough; a load port nest on the load port support surface configured to receive and support the carrier adjacent a selected destination, wherein the load port nest comprises a plurality of pins configured to mate with corresponding recesses on a bottom surface of the carrier; and a carrier manipulation mechanism operative to manipulate the carrier from a raised position on the carrier nest and elevated through the opening in the support surface to a load position on the load port nest. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the load port nest conforms to SEMI E57 standard. 19. A material handling and transport system for moving material supported by a carrier between storage and processing destinations, comprising: a vehicle configured to run on a support structure, wherein the support structure and vehicle are provided in a tunnel, the vehicle comprising: a carrier nest configured to receive and support a carrier capable of holding a material to be transported, and a lifting mechanism operative to vertically raise and lower the carrier nest; a load port support surface disposed vertically above the support structure, the load port support surface comprising a top surface of the tunnel, an opening provided in the load port support surface sized to allow vertical passage of the carrier therethrough; a load port nest on the load port support surface configured to receive and support the carrier adjacent a selected destination; and a carrier manipulation mechanism operative to manipulate the carrier from a raised position on the carrier nest and elevated through the opening in the support surface to a load position on the load port nest. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the tunnel is maintained at an elevated pressure relative to an ambient environment. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein the tunnel includes a removable access panel. 22. The system of claim 19, wherein the tunnel includes a pass through section to allow personnel to pass from one side to another side of the tunnel. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the pass through section comprises a drawbridge, a swing track, or a turnstile. 24. A semiconductor manufacturing facility comprising: a carrier containing semiconductor wafers; and a material handling and transport system for moving material supported by the carrier between storage and processing destinations, comprising: a vehicle configured to run on a support structure and comprising: a carrier nest configured to receive and support the carrier, and a lifting mechanism operative to vertically raise and lower the carrier nest; a load port support surface disposed vertically above the support structure, an opening provided in the load port support surface sized to allow vertical passage of the carrier therethrough; a load port nest on the load port support surface configured to receive and support the carrier adjacent a selected destination; and a carrier manipulation mechanism operative to manipulate the carrier from a raised position on the carrier nest and elevated through the opening in the support surface to a load position on the load port nest. 25. A material handling and transport system for moving material supported by a carrier between storage and processing destinations, comprising: carrier capable of holding a material to be transported; a vehicle configured to run on a support structure and comprising: a carrier nest configured to receive and support the carrier capable of holding a material to be transported, and a lifting mechanism operative to vertically raise and lower the carrier nest; a load port support surface disposed vertically above the support structure; an opening provided in the load port support surface sized to allow vertical passage of the carrier therethrough; a load port nest on the load port support surface configured to receive and support the carrier adjacent a selected destination; and a carrier manipulation mechanism operative to manipulate the carrier from a raised position on the carrier nest and elevated through the opening in the support surface to a load position on the load port nest. 