A system for teaching students to perform medical exams performed manually inside a body cavity includes an anatomical simulator with a simulator cavity, a tactile sensor in the simulator, and a feedback presentation unit in communication with the sensor. The tactile sensor generates a signal in response to a manual contact with an inside surface of the simulator cavity, and performance of the exam inside the simulator cavity generates a series of signals. The simulator can include removable anatomical parts, the surfaces of which make up the inside surface of the simulator cavity. The sensor is preferably a force sensing resistor and the signal is representative of the applied force. The feedback presentation unit is preferably a computer system, and the feedback may consist of a graphical display of information gathered by the sensor, or a rating of the exam performance. Pressure, time, and other data gathered from student performance of the exam are compared with a reference exam to derive a student rating, which may include instruction to the student during the exam. Realistic patient environments are simulated with video and audio signals.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for training a student to perform a medical exam using at least one hand of said student for direct human contact with a body cavity, said system comprising: a) an anatomical simulator having a simulated body cavity with an inside surface wherein said at least part of said inside surface is not visible to said student; b) a sensor in said anatomical simulator for generating signals in response to a manual contact of said at least one hand of said student with said inside surface of said simulator simulated body cavity, wherein said contact represents said medical exam; and c) a feedback presentation unit in communication with said signal from said sensor for providing feedback to said student so as to train said student to performed said medical exam. 2. The training system of claim 1 wherein said sensor is a force sensing resistor and said signals represent a force on said inside surface. 3. The training system of claim 1 wherein said anatomical simulator and said feedback presentation unit are adjustable to provide feedback for one of a plurality of different medical exams. 4. The training system of claim 1 wherein said medical exam is a pelvic exam and said anatomical simulator comprises the lower torso of a human female. 5. The training system of claim 1 wherein said medical exam is a rectal exam and said anatomical simulator comprises the lower torso of a human. 6. The training system of claim 1 wherein said medical exam comprises a surgical procedure. 7. The training system of claim 6 wherein said surgical procedure is selected from the group consisting of abdominal, pelvic, and thoracic surgery. 8. The training system of claim 7 wherein said surgical procedure is selected from the group consisting of prostatectomy, pelvic extenteration, and transhiatal esophagectomy. 9. The training system of claim 1 wherein said anatomical simulator comprises a plurality of removable anatomical parts having surfaces, and wherein said inside surface of said simulated cavity comprises said surfaces of said removable anatomical parts. 10. The training system of claim 9 wherein at least one of said plurality of removable anatomical parts represents a diseased condition, and said medical exam is correlated with said diseased condition. 11. The training system of claim 1 wherein said medical exam comprises a set of predetermined steps and said feedback comprises an indication of completion of said set of predetermined steps of said medical exam. 12. The training system of claim 1 wherein said feedback presentation unit comprises: a) a computer having a processor, a display means, and a memory; and b) converting means for converting said signals to inputs for said computer; wherein said memory stores computer readable code executable by said processor to process said inputs to provide said feedback. 13. The training system of claim 12 wherein said feedback comprises a graphical display on said display means. 14. The training system of claim 12 wherein said feedback comprises a rating for said medical exam, and wherein said computer readable code instructs said computer to compare said inputs with a reference medical exam to derive said rating. 15. The training system of claim 12 wherein said feedback comprises instruction to said student and said computer readable code instructs said computer to compare said inputs with a reference medical exam during said medical exam to determine said instruction. 16. The training system of claim 12, wherein said computer further comprises storage means for storing video signals and associated audio signals representing a realistic patient environment, and said computer readable code controls presentation of said video signals and said associated audio signals. 17. The training system of claim 1 wherein said feedback presentation unit comprises a liquid crystal display. 18. The training system of claim 1 wherein said feedback presentation unit is an analog display unit. 19. A method for training a student to perform a medical exam using at least one hand of said student for direct human contact with a body cavity, said method comprising: a) receiving signals from a sensor in a simulated body cavity of an anatomical simulator wherein said simulated body cavity has an inside surface and at least part of said inside surface is not visible to said student, wherein said signals are generated in response to a manual contact of said of at least one hand of said student with said simulated simulated cavity; and b) providing feedback to said student, wherein said feedback is in part derived from said signals so as train said student to perform said medical exam. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said feedback depends in part on a predetermined medical exam type. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein said medical exam is selected from the group consisting of a pelvic exam, a rectal exam, and a surgical procedure. 22. The method of claim 19 further comprising comparing said signals with a reference medical exam to derive said feedback. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein said reference medical exam corresponds to a manually detectable condition in said simulated body cavity. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said reference medical exam corresponds to a pathological condition of an said simulator body cavity. 25. The method of claim 19 further comprising analyzing said signals to determine whether a set of predetermined steps has been completed by said student, wherein said feedback comprises an indication of completion of said set of predetermined steps of said medical exam. 26. The method of claim 19 wherein the method is implemented in a computer. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein said computer comprises a display means and said feedback comprises a graphical display on said display means. 28. The method of claim 19 wherein providing said feedback comprises providing a rating for said medical exam. 29. The method of claim 19 further comprising providing instruction to said student. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein said instruction is determined in part from said received signals. 31. The method of claim 19 further comprising presenting video signals and audio signals to said student, wherein said video signals and said audio signals represent a realistic patient environment. 