An improved process for permanently attaching an overlay to a wheel disc, wherein the overlay is aligned and spaced apart from the wheel disc. A mold is created by a combination of the overlay, wheel disc and localized nests that engage at predetermined times during foam filling to close the mold. The mold is adequately sealed so that there is no foam leakage as the foam expands to fill the mold and, therefore, no final trimming of excess foam is required. The improved process is capable of accommodating a wheel having turbine openings therein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for permanently attaching an overlay having an outboard and inboard surface to an outboard surface of a wheel, said wheel and said overlay each having at least one predefined opening therein, said process comprising the steps of: locating said overlay on a fixture with said outboard surface of said overlay facing downward; positioning said wheel with said outboard surface of said wheel facing downward against said inboard surface of said overlay defining a wheel/overlay assembly; heating said wheel/overlay assembly to a predetermined temperature; placing said wheel/overlay assembly between an upper and lower platen of a foam filling station having a plurality of locating nests selectively positioned thereon; engaging at least one of said plurality of locating nests as said step of placing occurs, said at least one of said plurality of locating nests sealing around a respective one of said at least one predefined opening of said overlay and said wheel to create a mold cavity between said outboard surface of said wheel and said inboard surface of said overlay; beginning injecting a predefined quantity of a foamable liquid into said mold cavity; completing injection of said predefined quantity of said foamable liquid while continuing to engage said at least one of said plurality of locating nests with said at least one predefined opening in each said overlay and said wheel; holding said mold cavity closed for a predetermined time to allow said foamable liquid to foam so as to completely fill said mold cavity and cure within said mold cavity, thereby permanently attaching said overlay to said wheel; and disengaging said at least one of said plurality of locating nests and removing said wheel/overlay assembly from said foam filling station. 2. The process as claimed in claim 1 wherein said step of heating said wheel/overlay assembly further comprises heating said wheel/overlay assembly to a predetermined temperature within the range of 90.degree. F. to 190.degree. F. before said step of injecting said predefined quantity of foamable liquid. 3. The process as claimed in claim 2 wherein said step of heating said wheel/overlay assembly further comprises heating said wheel/overlay assembly to a temperature within the range of 120.degree. F. to 140.degree. F. 4. The process as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of applying an adhesive sealant to one of said inboard surface of said overlay and said outboard surface of said wheel before said step of positioning said wheel onto said overlay. 5. The process as claimed in claim 4 wherein said step of applying an adhesive sealant to one of said inboard and said outboard surface of said overlay further comprises robotic application of said adhesive sealant. 6. The process as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: applying a vacuum to said fixtured overlay to remove any warpage of said overlay; and applying an adhesive sealant to said inboard surface of said fixtured overlay and said outboard surface of said wheel before said step of positioning said wheel onto said overlay. 7. The process as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: applying a vacuum to said mold cavity before said step of injecting said predefined quantity of foamable liquid; and maintaining said vacuum during said steps of injecting said predefined quantity of foamable liquid and holding said mold cavity closed for a predetermined period of time. 8. The process as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of: selectively engaging at least one additional nest of said plurality of locating nests with another of said at least one predefined opening between said overlay and said wheel so as to completely close said mold cavity. 