The present invention provides an integrated, fully automated, high-throughput system for two-dimensional electrophoresis comprised of gel-making machines, gel processing machines, gel compositions and geometries, gel handling systems, sample preparation systems, software and methods. The system is capable of continuous operation at high-throughput to allow construction of large quantitative data sets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of excising a plurality of small regions of an electrophoresis gel comprising resolved proteins, said method comprising steps of: a) staining said gel; b) scanning said gel to yield a digitized image; c) inputing said image into an image processor for identifying a plurality of protein-containing regions in said gel; d) excising said protein-containing regions from said gel by means of a computer-controlled movable punch device on the basis of coordinates supplied by said image processor, wherein said punch device comprises a tube-like cutter and a central piston within said cutter, said cutter and said piston being moved coaxially by a computer-controlled means to cut, retrieve and expel a plug of said gel; and e) depositing said protein-containing regions in a plurality of vessels. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein in said excising step, said tube-like cutter applies suction to said plug for picking up said plug. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprises a moving step wherein after said staining step, said gel is moved onto a generally horizontal surface for said scanning step. 4. The method as set forth in claim 3, wherein said gel is laid down smoothly without tension on said generally horizontal surface. 5. The method as set forth in claim 4, wherein said gel remains on said generally horizontal surface for said excising step. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising: a second staining step after said scanning step; and a second scanning step after said second staining step. 7. A method of excising a plurality of small regions of an electrophoresis gel comprising resolved proteins, said method comprising steps of: a) staining said gel; b) scanning said gel to yield a digitized image using a gel scanning system; c) identifying locations of a plurality of protein-containing regions on said gel using an image processor; d) excising said protein-containing regions from said gel by means of a spot cutter mechanism comprising a punch device, said spot cutter mechanism being incorporated into said gel scanning system on the basis of coordinates supplied by said image processor, and wherein said punch device comprises a tube-like cutter and a central piston within said cutter, said cutter and said piston being moved coaxially by a computer-controlled means to cut and expel a plug of said gel; and e) depositing said protein-containing regions in a plurality of vessels. 8. The method as set forth in claim 7, wherein in said excising step, said tube-like cutter applies suction to said plug for picking up said plug. 9. The method as set forth in claim 7, further comprising a moving step wherein after said staining step, said gel is moved onto a generally horizontal surface for said scanning step. 10. The method as set forth in claim 9, wherein said gel is laid down smoothly without tension on said generally horizontal surface. 11. The method as set forth in claim 10, wherein said gel remains on said generally horizontal surface for said excising step. 12. The method as set forth in claim 7, further comprising: a second staining step after said scanning step; and a second scanning step after said second staining step. 13. A spot cutter adapted for electrophoresis analysis, comprising: a computer capable of receiving coordinates of spots in an electrophoresis gel; a support plate adapted to support said electrophoresis gel; a punch block including a cutting tube of a predetermined size; an actuator connected to said punch block and capable of moving said punch block vertically under control of said computer; a plunger coaxial with said cutting tube; and a plunger actuator capable of vertically moving said plunger within said cutting tube; wherein said computer is capable of horizontally positioning said cutting tube in relation to a spot to be excised from said electrophoresis gel, moving said plunger downward into contact with said electrophoresis gel, moving said punch block downward until said cutting tube cuts through said electrophoresis gel, moving said plunger upward and away from a gel plug contained within said cutting tube, moving said punch block upward and away from said electrophoresis gel, positioning said punch block over a collection vessel, and moving said plunger downward in said cutting tube to push said gel plug out of said cutting tube. 14. The spot cutter of claim 13, wherein said support plate is capable of being moved horizontally under control of said computer. 15. The spot cutter of claim 13, wherein said support plate is capable of being moved horizontally in two dimensions under control of said computer. 16. The spot cutter of claim 13, wherein said punch block is capable of being moved horizontally under control of said computer. 17. The spot cutter of claim 13, wherein said punch block is capable of being moved horizontally in two dimensions under control of said computer. 18. The spot cutter of claim 13, wherein said punch block moves downward under power of said actuator device. 19. The spot cutter of claim 13, wherein said punch block moves downward due to gravity. 20. The spot cutter of claim 13, wherein said plunger is substantially equal in size to an inner dimension of said cutting tube. 21. The spot cutter of claim 13, wherein said spot cutter further includes a horizontal drive device connected to said punch block and capable of moving said punch block horizontally under control of said computer. 22. The spot cutter of claim 13, wherein said spot cutter further includes a washing passage capable of providing a wash liquid through said cutting tube. 23. The spot cutter of claim 13, wherein said plunger actuator has less force that said actuator connected to said punch block. 24. A computer-implemented method of cutting a spot from an electrophoresis gel, comprising the steps of: horizontally positioning a punch block and associated cutting tube in relation to said spot to be excised from said electrophoresis gel; moving a plunger downward into contact with said electrophoresis gel, with said plunger being coaxial with said cutting tube; moving said punch block and associated cutting tube downward until said cutting tube cuts through said electrophoresis gel; moving said plunger upward and away from a gel plug contained within said cutting tube; moving said punch block and associated cutting tube upward and away from said electrophoresis gel; positioning said punch block and associated cutting tube over a collection vessel; and moving said plunger downward in said cutting tube to push said gel plug out of said cutting tube. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein a computer receives data containing spot locations on said electrophoresis gel. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein said method further includes the step of passing a wash liquid through said cutting tube after said gel plug is pushed out. 27. The method of claim 24, wherein said gel plug is placed within a unique collection vessel, with said unique collection vessel being recorded by said processor. 28. The method of claim 24, wherein said punch block is capable of being moved horizontally under control of said computer. 29. The method of claim 24, wherein said punch block is capable of being moved horizontally in two dimensions under control of said computer. 30. The method of claim 24, wherein said punch block moves downward under power of said vertical actuator device. 31. The method of claim 24, wherein said punch block moves downward due to gravity. 32. The method of claim 24, wherein said plunger is substantially equal in size to an inner dimension of said cutting tube. 33. The method of claim 24, wherein a horizontal drive device connected to said punch block moves said punch block horizontally under control of said computer. 