An electrostatic chuck 100 useful for holding a substrate 55 in a high density plasma, comprises an electrode 110 at least partially covered by a semiconducting dielectric 115, wherein the semiconducting dielectric 115 may have an electrical resistance of from about 5.times.10.sup.9 .OMEGA.cm to about 8.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrostatic chuck comprising: an electrode; a semiconducting dielectric covering at least a portion of the electrode, the semiconducting dielectric having an electrical resistivity of from about 5.times.10.sup.9 .OMEGA.cm to about 8.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm; and at least one conduit extending through the electrode and an electrical isolator in the conduit. 2. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises aluminum oxide, aluminum nitride, silicon dioxide, silicon carbide, silicon nitride, titanium dioxide, zirconium oxide, or mixtures thereof. 3. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises an electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm to about 5.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm. 4. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises aluminum oxide. 5. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises titanium oxide. 6. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises aluminum oxide and at least about 8 wt % titanium oxide. 7. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the electrical isolator is capable of reducing plasma formation in the conduit in a plasma environment. 8. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises an electrical resistivity sufficiently low to allow dissipation of accumulated electrostatic charge in less than about 1 second. 9. A substrate process chamber comprising: a gas distributor adapted to introduce process gas in the chamber; a semiconducting dielectric covering an electrode, the semiconducting dielectric having a receiving surface adapted to receive a substrate and the semiconducting dielectric having an electrical resistivity of from about 5.times.10.sup.9 .OMEGA.cm to about 8.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm; at least one conduit extending through the electrode and an electrical isolator in the conduit; and a plasma generator. 10. A process chamber according to claim 9 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises an electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm to about 5.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm. 11. A process chamber according to claim 9 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises aluminum oxide, aluminum nitride, silicon dioxide, silicon carbide, silicon nitride, titanium dioxide, zirconium oxide, or mixtures thereof. 12. A process chamber according to claim 9 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises aluminum oxide. 13. A process chamber according to claim 9 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises titanium oxide. 14. A process chamber according to claim 9 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises aluminum oxide and at least about 8 wt % titanium oxide. 15. A process chamber according to claim 9 wherein the electrical isolator is capable of reducing plasma formation in the conduit in a plasma environment. 16. A process chamber according to claim 9 further comprising a voltage supply adapted to supply a plasma generating voltage to the electrode. 17. A process chamber according to claim 16 wherein the voltage supply is adapted to supply a DC voltage to the electrode to electrostatically hold the substrate. 18. An electrostatic chuck comprising: an electrode; a semiconducting dielectric covering at least a portion of the electrode, the semiconducting dielectric comprising a surface to receive a substrate, and the semiconducting dielectric having a resistivity (i) sufficiently low to allow an electrical charge applied to the electrode to leak from the electrode and accumulate as electrostatic charge in the semiconducting dielectric and (ii) sufficiently high to retain the accumulated electrostatic charge in the semiconducting dielectric during processing of the substrate, whereby the substrate may be electrostatically held to the semiconducting dielectric; and at least one conduit extending through the electrode and an electrical isolator in the conduit. 19. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 18 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises a resistivity sufficiently low to allow the accumulated electrostatic charge to dissipate in less than about 1 second upon termination of the electrical charge applied to the electrode. 20. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 18 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises a resistivity of from about 5.times.10.sup.9 .OMEGA.cm to about 8.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm. 21. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 18 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises a resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm to about 5.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm. 22. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 18 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises aluminum oxide, aluminum nitride, silicon dioxide, silicon carbide, silicon nitride, titanium oxide, zirconium oxide, or mixtures thereof. 23. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 18 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises an electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm to about 5.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm. 24. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 18 wherein the semiconducting dielectric comprises aluminum oxide. 25. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 24 wherein the semiconducting dielectric further comprises at least about 8 wt % titanium oxide. 26. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 18 wherein the electrical isolator is adapted to reduce plasma formation in the conduit in a plasma environment. 27. An electrostatic chuck comprising: an electrode; a first dielectric covering at least a portion of the electrode and a second dielectric covering at least a portion of the electrode; and at least one conduit extending through the electrode and an electrical isolator in the conduit. 28. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 27 wherein the second dielectric extends around the first dielectric. 29. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 27 wherein the first dielectric material comprises an electrical resistivity of from about 5.times.10.sup.9 .OMEGA.cm to about 8.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm. 30. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 27 wherein the second dielectric material comprises a resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.11 .OMEGA.cm to about 1.times.10.sup.20 .OMEGA.cm. 31. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 27 wherein the first or second dielectric materials comprise aluminum oxide, aluminum nitride, silicon dioxide, silicon carbide, silicon nitride, titanium oxide, zirconium oxide, or mixtures thereof. 32. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 27 wherein one or more of the first or second dielectric materials comprise aluminum oxide. 33. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 32 wherein the first or second dielectric materials further comprise at least about 8 wt % titanium oxide. 34. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 27 wherein the electrical isolator is adapted to reduce plasma formation in the conduit in a plasma environment. 