The amino acid sequence of a polo box is provided based on residue-by-residue mutation and analysis of phenotype. Additional polo boxes in the polo kinase protein located between the first polo box and the carboxy terminal are provided. Compositions and methods are provided for obtaining inhibitors of polo box function, for use as therapeutics for treatment of cancer, infection a fungi, protozoans, and helminths, for arthropod infestation of a subject, and for treatment of tumors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of inhibiting growth of an isolated population of cells by inhibiting a cell polo kinase, comprising: delivering to the population of cells a polo kinase inhibitor, wherein the inhibitor amino acid sequence consists of an amino acid sequence derived from a carboxy terminal domain of the polo kinase, such carboxy terminal domain excluding the polo kinase catalytic domain, wherein the amino acid sequence of the inhibitor comprises at least one of the sequences selected from the group consisting of PB1, PB2, and PB3 as set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 1, 6, and 7, respectively. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the inhibitor is an isolated peptide obtained by randomly mutagenizing a DNA sequence encoding the amino acid sequence of the polo kinase carboxy terminal domain. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the population of cells comprises cancer cells. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the inhibitor amino acid sequence is obtained from the amino acid sequence of a polo kinase of an unwanted population of cells isolated from an infected subject. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the inhibitor is delivered in an effective dose in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 6. A method according to claim 2, wherein a nucleic acid sequence encoding the inhibitor is obtained by mutagenizing a subcloned nucleic acid sequence from a gene encoding a polo kinase, and isolating a genetically engineered peptide having increased binding affinity for a polo kinase. 7. A method according to claim 3, wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of a cancer of a lung, a breast, a uterus, an ovary, a cervix, an epithelium, a brain, a retina, a prostate, and a throat. 8. A method according to claim 4, wherein the cells are fungal cells. 9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the fungal cells are selected from the group of fungi consisting, of Candida, Lichen, Trichophyton, Epidermophyton, and Microsporum. 