Toy robots are provided that act in concert with each other. A player issues high level team commands to a processor. The processor interprets the team command to derive individual low level commands for the toy robots. A transmitter transmits the low level commands to the toy robots, which then act in concert.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A set comprising: a team control processor adapted to receive a team command and to derive at least a first and a second distinct pawn control instructions from the team command; a team transmitter adapted to transmit wirelessly at least a first and a second distinct pawn control signals encoding respectively the first and second pawn control instructions; and at least a first and a second pawn toy robots, the first pawn toy robot having a sensor to receive the first pawn control signal, the second pawn toy robot having a primary sensor to receive the second pawn control signal, each pawn toy robot further having a decoder to adapted to decode the pawn control signal received by the associated primary sensor to reproduce the respective pawn control instruction, each pawn toy robot being adapted to act responsive to the reproduced pawn control instruction. 2. The set of claim 1, wherein the first and second pawn toy robots are adapted to place on a play surface, and one of the received pawn control instructions includes an instruction for one of a direction of movement, speed of movement, and desired position on the play surface of the pawn toy robot to which the pawn control instruction is to be transmitted. 3. The set of claim 1, wherein the team control processor is in a personal computer. 4. The set of claim 1, wherein. the team transmitter is adapted to be coupled to a personal computer. 5. The set of claim 1, further comprising: a stand alone controller distinct from a personal computer, wherein the team transmitter is adapted to be coupled to the controller. 6. The set of claim 5, wherein the controller is adapted to be coupled to a personal computer. 7. The set of claim 1, wherein the team transmitter includes one of an infrared light source, a radio frequency wave source, and a speaker. 8. The set of claim 1, further comprising: a field sensor adapted to sense a location of at least one of the pawn toy robots. 9. The set of claim 8, wherein at least one of the pawn toy robots includes an RFID tag, and the field sensor is a RFID tag reader. 10. The set of claim 8, wherein the team control processor receives inputs from the field sensor. 11. The set of claim 1, wherein at least one of the pawn toy robots includes a beacon to transmit a pawn status signal. 12. The set of claim 11, wherein the beacon includes one of a LED, a speaker, and a source for radio frequency waves. 13. The set of claim 11, wherein the pawn status signal is responsive to the pawn control signal. 14. The set of claim 11, further comprising: a feedback sensor to receive the pawn status signal. 15. The set of claim 11, wherein the feedback sensor is included in one of the toy robots. 16. The set of claim 1, wherein at least one of the pawn toy robots includes a status sensor adapted to sense whether a preset pawn status condition is met, and a preset action routine to execute if the preset pawn status condition is met. 17. The set of claim 16, wherein the preset action routine is adapted to override the reproduced pawn control instruction if the preset pawn status condition is met. 18. The set of claim 16, wherein the preset pawn status condition is one of an orientation condition, a location condition and a proximity condition. 19. The set of claim 1, further comprising: a master toy robot that has the transmitter. 20. The set of claim 19, wherein the master toy robot has a master sensor to receive a master control signal that encodes the team command, and the team control processor. 21. A set comprising: a first team control processor adapted to receive a first team command and to derive from the first team command a plurality of first pawn control instructions; a first team of a plurality of first pawn toy robots to place on a play surface, each first pawn toy robot adapted to move according to the first pawn control instructions; a second team control processor adapted to receive a second team command and to derive from the second team command a plurality of second pawn control instructions; and a second team of a plurality of second pawn toy robots to place on the play surface, each second pawn toy robot adapted to move according to the second pawn control instructions. 22. The set of claim 21, further comprising: a first team transmitter adapted to transmit to the first pawn toy robots a plurality of first pawn control signals that encode respectively the derived first pawn control instructions; and a second team transmitter adapted to transmit to the second pawn toy robots a plurality of second pawn, control signals that encode respectively the derived second pawn control instructions. 23. The set of claim 21, further comprising: an enclosure to delineate an arena on the play surface, wherein the first pawn toy robots and the second pawn toy robots are to be placed in the arena. 24. The set of claim 21, further comprising: a play device that includes the play surface. 25. The set of claim 21, wherein an arena is delineated on the play surface. 26. The set of claim 21, further comprising: a game ball adapted to be placed on the play surface, and to be manipulated by at least one of the pawn toy robots. 27. The set of claim 21, further comprising: a first master toy robot to place on the play surface, the master toy robot having the first transmitter. 28. An article comprising: a storage medium, said storage medium having stored thereon instructions, that, when executed by at least one device, result in: deriving a first and a second distinct pawn control instructions from a team command; transmitting wirelessly to a first pawn toy robot a first pawn control signal encoding the first pawn control instruction; and transmitting wirelessly to a second pawn toy robot a second pawn control signal encoding the second pawn control instruction. 29. The article of claim 28, wherein the instructions further result in: the first and second pawn toy robots are adapted to place on a play surface, and one of the received pawn control instructions includes an instruction for one of a direction of movement, speed of movement, and desired position on the play surface of the pawn toy robot to which the pawn control instruction is to be transmitted. 30. The article of claim 28, wherein the instructions further result in: encoding the team command in master signal; and transmitting the master signal to master toy robot. 31. The article of claim 30, wherein the instructions further result in: decoding the master signal to reproduce the team command prior to deriving. 32. A method comprising: deriving a first and a second distinct pawn control instructions from a team command; transmitting wirelessly to a first pawn toy robot a first pawn control signal encoding the first pawn control instruction; and transmitting wirelessly to a second pawn toy robot a second pawn control signal encoding the second pawn control instruction. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the first and second pawn toy robots are adapted to place on a play surface, and one of the received pawn control instructions includes an instruction for one of a direction of movement, speed of movement, and desired position on the play surface of the pawn toy robot to which the pawn control instruction is to be transmitted. 34. The method of claim 32, further comprising: observing an action of an opponent toy robot in an opponent team; determining a plan to counter the observed action; and prior to deriving, issuing the team command to effectuate the plan. 35. The method of claim 34, further comprising: inputting a status of the first pawn toy robot to determine the plan. 36. The method of claim 32, further comprising: encoding the team command in master signal; and transmitting the master signal to master toy robot. 37. The method of claim 36, further comprising: decoding the master signal to reproduce the team command prior to deriving. 38. The method of claim 32, wherein sensing whether a preset pawn status condition is met; and if so, executing a preset action routine. 39. The method of claim 32, further comprising: receiving the first pawn control signal; making a first action responsive to the first pawn control instruction; receiving the second pawn control signal; and making a second action responsive to the second pawn control instruction. 40. The method of claim 39 further comprising: determining whether a received pawn control signal is intended for a pawn toy robot that received it. 41. The method of claim 39, further comprising: decoding the received first and second pawn control signals to reproduce the first and second pawn control instructions. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein sensing whether a preset pawn status condition is met; and if so, executing a preset action routine. 43. The method of claim 42 wherein executing the preset action routine is performed by overriding the reproduced pawn control instruction. 44. The method of claim 42, wherein the preset pawn status condition is one of an orientation condition, and a location condition. 45. The method of claim 42, further comprising: transmitting a pawn status signal that encodes whether the preset pawn status condition is met. 