A docking station for a robotic mail tray loading system includes a ground plate that is mounted to the floor of the building in which the robotic mail tray loading system is housed. The ground plate has first and second wheel-retaining recesses that preferably include ramped surfaces to accommodate wheels of mail carts. A plurality of guide plates are positioned to locate one pallet or two mail carts in the docking station at a time. The docking station also includes a plurality of sensors that sense the presence or absence of a pallet or cart in the docking station and that sense the type of cart present at the cart docking station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A docking station for receiving various types of containers to be loaded with trays, said docking station comprising: a support surface having wheel-retaining recesses adapted to receive the wheels of a container and resist movement of the container away from said docking station; a plurality of guide members mounted to said support surface and adapted to guide the wheels of a container into said wheel-retaining recesses; a container presence sensor adapted to identify the presence of a container positioned within the docking station; and a container type sensor adapted to identify the type of container positioned within the docking station. 2. The docking station of claim 1, wherein said container type sensor is positioned to sense whether the container is one of a first mail cart and a second mail cart. 3. The docking station of claim 1, wherein said plurality of guide members includes first and second angled guide members adapted to locate a wheel of the container. 4. The docking station of claim 1, wherein said support surface is a ground plate, and wherein said wheel-retaining recesses are cut-outs in said ground plate, each of said cut-outs including a ramped surface to facilitate rolling a wheel into said cut-out. 5. The docking station of claim 1, wherein said container presence sensor and said container type sensor are aligned along a line angled between about 20.degree. and about 40.degree. with respect to vertical. 6. The docking station of claim 1, further comprising a pallet sensor adapted to determine whether the container positioned within said docking station is a pallet. 7. The docking station of claim 1, further comprising a second container presence sensor and a second container type sensor, said second presence and type sensors adapted to determine the presence and type, respectively, of a second container positioned within said docking station. 8. The docking station of claim 1, further comprising a conduit guard and a plurality of conduits communicating with said presence sensor and said type sensor, said conduit guard including straps for bundling said conduits, said conduits running along said conduit guard. 9. A docking station comprising: a ground plate having first and second wheel-retaining recesses; first and second pallet guide members adapted to position a pallet in said docking station at a known location; a first pair of wheel guide members spaced from said first wheel-retaining recess such that when one wheel of a cart is disposed between said first pair of wheel guide members, another wheel of the cart is disposed within said first wheel retaining recess; and a second pair of wheel guide members spaced from said second wheel-retaining recess such that when one wheel of a cart is disposed between said second pair of wheel guide members, another wheel of the cart is disposed within said second wheel retaining recess. 10. The docking station of claim 9, further comprising a pallet sensor adapted to sense whether a pallet is disposed within said docking station. 11. The docking station of claim 9, wherein said first pallet guide member includes a slot receiving a stud that is mounted to said ground plate; the distance between said first and second pallet guide members being adjustable by moving said first pallet guide member with respect to said stud within said slot. 12. The docking station of claim 9, further comprising a cart presence sensor adapted to sense the presence of a cart within said docking station; and a cart type sensor adapted to sense the type of cart positioned within said docking station. 13. The docking station of claim 9, wherein said wheel-retaining recesses include ramped surfaces to facilitate moving wheels into and out of said wheel-retaining recesses. 14. A docking station for receiving pallets and carts for loading, said docking station comprising: a pallet sensor adapted to sense whether a pallet is disposed within said docking station; a cart presence sensor adapted to sense whether a cart is present within said docking station; and a cart type sensor adapted to sense the type of cart that is present within said docking station. 15. The docking station of claim 14, wherein said cart presence and cart type sensors are aligned along a line angled between about 20.degree. and about 40.degree. with respect to vertical. 16. The docking station of claim 15, further comprising a second cart presence sensor and a second cart type sensor. 17. A docking station for receiving various types of containers to be loaded with trays, said docking station comprising: a support surface having at least one wheel-retaining recess adapted to receive at least one wheel of a container and to resist movement of the container away from said docking station; at least one guide member mounted to said support surface and adapted to guide at least one wheel of a container into said at least one wheel-retaining recess; and at least one container sensor adapted to sense at least one of the group of the presence of a container positioned within the docking station, the type of container positioned within the docking station, and both the presence and type of a container within the docking station. 18. A robotic system comprising: a controller; a robot linked to the controller and having an end effector with a sensor; and at least one cart docking station, the cart docking station including a plate with at least one wheel well, and at least one container sensor operable to be coupled in data communication relation to the controller, wherein the controller uses information from the end effector sensor, and the at least one container sensor to determine the presence of and type of container in the cart docking station. 19. A cart docking station comprising: a plate having at least one pallet bracket, at least one wheel well, and a conduit cover positioned adjacent to the plate; and at least one container sensor coupled to the plate. 20. A cart docking station comprising: a ground plate having at least one pallet bracket, a chute-guided-wheel well, and an unguided wheel well, adjacent the chute-guided wheel well; a conduit cover positioned adjacent to the ground plate; at least one sensor supported by the conduit cover; and at least one cart detection sensor located adjacent to one of said chute guided or unguided wheel wells. 21. A cart docking station as claimed in claim 20, wherein the ground plate further comprise a second chute guided wheel well and a second unguided wheel well. 22. A cart docking station as claimed in claim 20, wherein the ground plate further comprises a ramp aligned with the unguided wheel well. 23. A cart docking station as claimed in claim 20, wherein the ground plate further comprises a ramp aligned with the chute-guided wheel well. 24. A cart docking station as claimed in claim 20, further comprising a cart detection sensor bracket mounted on the ground plate, and wherein the at least one cart detection sensor is mounted on the cart detection sensor bracket. 25. A cart docking station as claimed in claim 24, further comprising a second cart detection sensor mounted in the cart detection sensor bracket at a position vertically and horizontally displaced from the at least one cart detection sensor. 26. A cart docking station as claimed in claim 20, wherein the ground plate further comprises a second pallet bracket. 27. A cart docking station, the cart docking station comprising: a ground plate, the ground plate having a first portion with a fixed bracket, a chute-guided wheel well, an unguided wheel well, and at least two container detection sensors, the ground plate also having a second portion with a movable bracket, a chute-guided wheel well, an unguided wheel well, and two container detection sensors, each detection sensor having a communication cable; a pallet sensor having a communication cable and positioned between the fixed and movable brackets; and a conduit positioned adjacent the ground plate and having an interior portion through which at least a portion of the each communication cable from each of the container detection sensors and the pallet sensor is routed. 28. A cart docking station as claimed in claim 27, wherein the pallet sensor is mounted on the conduit. 29. A cart docking station as claimed in claim 27, wherein the two container detection sensors in each first and second portion are positioned diagonally from one another. 30. A cart docking station as claimed in claim 27, wherein the conduit includes at least one cable harness for supporting at least one of the communication cables. 31. A cart docking station as claimed in claim 27, wherein the ground plate further comprises a ramp aligned with each unguided wheel well. 32. A cart docking station as claimed in claim 27, wherein the ground plate further comprises a ramp aligned with each chute-guided wheel well. 33. A robotic system comprising: a controller; a robot linked to the controller and having an end effector with a sensor; and at least one cart docking station, the cart docking station including a ground plate with a plurality of wheel wells and a plurality of pallet brackets, a first type of container sensor positioned between the pallet brackets, the first type of container sensor coupled in data communication relation to the controller, and at least one of a second type of container sensor positioned adjacent at least one of the plurality of wheel wells, the at least one of a second type of container sensor coupled in data communication relation to the controller, wherein the controller uses information from the end effector sensor, the first type of container sensor, and the second type of container sensor to determine the presence of and type of container in the cart docking station. 34. A method of detecting the presence of a container, the method comprising: providing a cart docking station with a plurality of fixtures for positioning containers at predetermined locations; aligning a plurality of sensors with the plurality of fixtures; and processing the output of the plurality of sensors to determine the type of container present at the cart docking station. 