A novel, portable coordinate measuring machine comprises a multijointed (preferably six joints) manually positionable measuring arm for accurately and easily measuring a volume. In addition to the articulated measuring arm, the present invention employs a software interface which permits the arm to be used in connection with one or more applications programs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A three dimensional coordinate measuring system comprising: a movable arm having opposed first and second ends, said arm including a plurality of joints with each joint corresponding to a degree of freedom such that said arm is movable within a selected volume, each of said joints comprising a rotational transfer housing and a transducer housed in said rotational transfer housing, each of said transducers producing a position signal; a support base attached to said first end of said movable arm; a probe attached to said second end of said movable arm; and an electronic circuit including an interface for receiving said position signals from said transducer and providing digital position coordinates corresponding to the position of said probe in a selected volume; wherein said interface includes; a communication port for a host computer running at least one application program using digital position coordinates as input data; a memory containing data handling software specific for said at least one application program running on said host computer; and at least one microprocessor for executing said data handling software responsive to the specific application program currently running on said host computer, so that said digital position coordinates are pre-processed to be commensurate with data input requirements of the specific application program currently running on said host computer. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein: said memory contains data handling software specific for a plurality of application programs running on said host computer. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein: the application program is CAD/CAM program. 4. The system of claim 2 wherein: the application programs comprise CAD/CAM programs. 5. A device for recording three dimensional coordinates, comprising: a movable arm having a first and a second end, said arm including a plurality of joints, each joint corresponding to a degree of freedom, such that said arm is movable within a selected volume, and each of said joints comprising a rotational transfer housing with an integrated transducer for generating position signals corresponding to the angular position of the respective joint; a support base attached to said first end of said movable arm; a probe attached to said second end of said movable arm; and electronic evaluation logic for calculating on the basis of said position signals of the transducer, the position of the probe wherein said electronic evaluation logic comprises an intelligent interface with a connection port for a separate computer and wherein a processing unit is integrated onto the intelligent interface, said processing unit calculating on a continuous basis position and/or orientation data of the probe, and wherein a specific protocol is preprogrammed into the intelligent interface for at least one user program running on a computer connected to said connection port, said protocol enabling said intelligent interface to respond at its connection port to a polling request of the computer with position and/or orientation data calculated by the separate processing unit. 6. The device of claim 5 wherein: said specific protocol is programmed into the intelligent interface for a plurality of programs running on the computer. 7. The device of claim 5 wherein: said program is a CAD/CAM program. 8. The device of claim 6 wherein: said programs comprise CAD/CAM programs. 9. The device of claim 5 wherein: said intelligent interface comprises an analog-to-digital converter/digital counter circuit for simultaneous capture of data from said transducers. 10. The device of claim 9 wherein: said specific protocol is programmed into the intelligent interface for a plurality of programs running on the computer. 11. The device of claim 9 wherein: said program is a CAD/CAM program. 12. The device of claim 10 wherein: said programs comprise CAD/CAM programs. 