A method and system of depositing molten metal from an advancing welding wire to form a root pass of weld metal in the bottom of a gap between first and second metal members having generally flat base elements joined by a metal backing plate extending between said base elements, which method and system includes passing welding current between the welding wire and the metal members from a power supply to create a heat generating welding arc, moving the welding wire in a given direction along selected path over the backing plate, sensing a blow through of the backing plate by the welding arc, reversing said given direction of said welding wire for a short distance when a blow through has been sensed and then, resuming movement of said welding wire in said given direction along the selected path.
Claims Having thus defined the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A method of depositing molten metal from an advancing welding wire to form a root pass of weld metal in the bottom of a gap between first and second metal members having generally flat base elements joined by a metal backing plate extending between said base elements, said method comprising: (a) passing welding current between said welding wire and said metal members from a power supply to create a heat generating welding arc; (b) moving said welding wire in a given direction along selected path over said backing plate, said selected path including a number of cycles each having a first transverse branch extending from said first element to said second element and a successive second transverse branch extending from said second element to said first element with longitudinal branches connecting successive transverse branches and generally perpendicular to said transverse branches and adjacent the intersection of said backing plate and one of said members. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said branches of selected path includes a number of longitudinally spaced direction changing decision points at the intersection of said backing plate with one of said members where said path is changed generally orthogonally from one branch to the next branch. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, including the act of swinging said welding wire as it moves along said transverse path of said selected path. 4. A method as defined in claim 3, including the act of maintaining the spacing of said wire from said backing plate generally constant as it moves along said selected path. 5. A method as defined in claim 1, including the act of maintaining the spacing of said wire from said backing plate generally constant as it moves along said selected path. 6. A method as defined in claim 1, including determination at said decision points the existence of a blow through between said backing plate and one of said metal members. 7. A method as defined in claim 6, including reversing said given direction upon detection of a blow through to move said welding wire back to a decision point and then resuming movement in said given direction. 8. A method as defined in claim 6, including advancing to the next decision point upon failure to detect a blow through. 9. A method as defined in claim 6, including selectively forcing a blow through upon failure to detect a blow through. 10. A method as defined in claim 9, wherein said forcing act is performed upon failure to detect a blow through at a number of successive decision points. 11. A method as defined in claim 10, wherein said number is two. 12. A method as defined in claim 10, wherein said forcing act comprises reducing the voltage of said power supply. 13. A method as defined in claim 12, wherein said number is two. 14. A method as defined in claim 9, wherein said forcing act comprises reducing the voltage of said power supply. 