A reticle cleaning apparatus that utilizes an ultraviolet light source in an oxygen-containing environment to cleanse organic contaminants from a reticle. The reticle cleaning apparatus of the present invention enables the storage of multiple reticles for use in a lithography tool in an environment which contains organic contaminants. A stored reticle is translated to a reticle cleaning station within the lithography tool in order to cleanse the reticle of organic contaminants. This cleaning can be performed while the projection optics of the tool exposes a wafer using another reticle previously cleaned by the reticle cleaning apparatus. Upon completion of the reticle cleaning process, the reticle is immediately translated to the exposure path of the lithography tool. The reticle cleaning process is performed during normal operation of the lithography tool at room temperature, atmospheric pressure and in an oxygen-containing environment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of cleaning a reticle in a lithography tool comprising: an illumination system constructed and arranged to supply a beam of light; a reticle exposure station constructed and arranged to hold a reticle comprising a circuit pattern serving to pattern the beam of light according to the circuit pattern; a wafer stage for holding a wafer; a projection system constructed and arranged to project the patterned beam of light onto the wafer; a reticle storage area constructed and arranged to store a plurality of reticles; a reticle cleaning station comprising an oxygen-containing environment, an ultraviolet light source constructed and arranged to generate ultraviolet rays and a reticle holding member; and a robot constructed and arranged to transfer the reticle from each one of the reticle exposure station, the reticle storage area and the reticle cleaning station, wherein the method comprises the steps of: retrieving a first reticle from one of said reticle exposure station and said reticle storage area using the robot; transporting the first reticle to the reticle cleaning station; irradiating the first reticle with the ultraviolet rays in an oxygen-containing atmosphere, while contemporaneously permitting the lithographic tool to perform exposure of a second reticle; and transferring the first reticle to one of said reticle exposure station and said reticle storage area using the robot. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the ultraviolet light source generates radiation having a wavelength of 172 nm. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the reticle cleaning station is kept at ambient temperature and atmospheric pressure. 4. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: purging the reticle cleaning station. 5. A lithographic tool comprising: an illumination system constructed and arranged to supply a beam of light; a reticle exposure station constructed and arranged to hold a reticle comprising a circuit pattern serving to pattern the beam of light according to the circuit pattern; a wafer stage constructed and arranged to hold a wafer; a projection system constructed and arranged to project the patterned beam of light onto the wafer; a reticle storage area constructed and arranged to store a plurality of reticles; a reticle cleaning station comprising an oxygen-containing environment, an ultraviolet light source constructed and arranged to generate ultraviolet rays and a reticle holding member; and a robot constructed and arranged to transfer the reticle from each one of the reticle exposure station, the reticle storage area and the reticle cleaning station. 