Implantable medical devices (IMDs) and their various components, including flat electrolytic capacitors for same, and methods of making and using same and providing for outgassing of gases released during capacitor charge and discharge cycles are disclosed. A gas vent and liquid electrolyte barrier into the electrolyte fill tube lumen that is used to fill the interior case chamber with electrolyte and then needs to be closed to prevent leakage of electrolyte. The fill port is shaped to comprise a fill port tube having interior and exterior tube ends and a fill port ferrule intermediate the ends of the fill port tube and comprising a fill port ferrule flange extending trasversely to and away from the fill port tube. The fill port ferrule is mounted in an opening disposed in one of the case wall and the cover wall with the ferrule flange in seaing engagement therewith to locate the exterior tube end extending outwardly away from the fill port ferrule flange and the interior tube end within the interior case chamber. A microporous plug is injected into and fills the fill port lumen, the plug formed of a microporous material allowing the escape of gas released from the liquid electrolyte during capacitor charging while preventing escape of liquid or vaporized electrolyte.
Claims We claim: 1. A hermetically sealed implantable medical device, comprising: a hermetically sealed housing; an energy source disposed within the housing; circuit means coupled with said energy source for selectively providing a charging current; and a substantially flat electrolytic capacitor disposed within the housing and connected to the circuit means to be charged thereby, the capacitor releasing gas during charging, the capacitor comprising: a hermetically sealed capacitor case defining an interior case chamber, the case having a base bounded by a base peripheral edge, a case side wall extending between the base peripheral edge through a side wall height to a side wall opening edge defining a case opening edge, and a cover hermetically sealed against the case opening edge to enclose the interior case chamber; an electrode stack assembly comprising a plurality of capacitor layers each comprising a cathode layer, an anode layer and a first separator layer stacked and disposed within the interior case chamber; a liquid electrolyte filling within the intelior case chamber; a fill port formed through one of the case side wall and the cover for filling the capacitor with the liquid electrolyte, the fill port shaped to comprise a fill port tube having a fill port tube lumen extending between interior and exterior tube ends and a fill port ferrule intermediate the interior and exterior tube ends, the fill port ferrule formed as a flange extending transversely to and radially away from the fill port tube, the fill port ferrule being mounted in an opening disposed in one of the case wall and the cover wall with the ferrule flange in sealing engagement therewith to locate the exterior tube end extending outwardly away from the case side wall or cover and the interior tube end within the interior case chamber; and a microporous material filling said fill port lumen and extending into said interior case chamber in a region surrounding said interior tube end, the microporous material allowing the escape of gas released during capacitor charging and discharging cycles while preventing escape of liquid or vaporized electrolyte. 2. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the released gas is hydrogen gas, and the microporous material is one of the group comprising silicone rubber, polyimide, and epoxy. 3. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the fill port tube and the fill port ferrule are formed as an integral fill port mountable in the opening, the component formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 4. The implantable medical device of claim 3, wherein the case and the cover are formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 5. The implantable medical device of claim 4, wherein the fill port tube and ferrule are formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 6. The implantable medical device of claim 5, wherein the fill port ferrule flange is sealed against the one of the cover or the case side wall surrounding the opening by at least one of welding, laser welding, ultrasonic welding, brazing, soldering, crimping, compressing, gluing and epoxying. 7. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the fill port ferrule flange is sealed hermetically against the one of the cover wall or the case side wall surrounding the opening by at least one of welding, laser welding, ultrasonic welding, brazing, soldering, crimping, compressing, gluing and epoxying. 8. The implantable medical device of claim 1 wherein the fill port tube and ferrule are formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 9. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the fill port tube and ferrule formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 10. A substantially flat electrolytic capacitor, comprising: at least one flat cathode layer formed of cathode foil; a plurality of flat anode layers formed of anode foil, the plurality of anode layers forming an anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces; at least a first separator layer formed of separator material; a liquid electrolyte; a case having a case wall comprising a substantially flat planar base and side walls extending upwardly therefrom to form an open end; a substantially planar cover having a cover wall for sealing the open end of the case; wherein the at least one cathode layer, the plurality of anode layers and the first separator layer are vertically stacked in the case such that the first separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly, and the electrolyte is disposed inside the case; a fill port formed through one of the case side wall and the cover for filling the capacitor with the liquid electrolyte, the fill port shaped to comprise a fill port tube having a fill port tube lumen extending between interior and exterior tube ends and a fill port ferrule intermediate the interior and exterior tube ends, the fill port ferrule formed as a flange extending transversely to and radially away from the fill port tube, the fill port ferrule being mounted in an opening disposed in one of the case wall and the cover wall with the ferrule flange in sealing engagement therewith to locate the exterior tube end extending outwardly away from the case side wall or cover and the interior tube end within the interior case chamber; and a microporous material filling said fill port lumen and extending into said interior case chamber in a region surrounding said interior tube end, the microporous material allowing the escape of gas released during capacitor charging and dischargirg cycles while preventing escape of liquid or vaporized electrolyte. 11. The capacitor of claim 10, wherein the released gas is hydrogen gas, and the microporous material is one of the group comprising silicone rubber, polyimide, and epoxy. 12. The capacitor of claim 10, wherein the fill port tube and the fill port ferrule form a single contiguous fill port component mountable in the opening, the component formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 13. The capacitor of claim 10, wherein the case and the cover are formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 14. The capacitor of claim 13, wherein the fill port ferrule flange is sealed against the one of the cover wall or the case wall surrounding the opening by at least one of welding, laser welding, ultrasonic welding, brazing, soldering, crimping, compressing, gluing and epoxying. 15. The capacitor of claim 10, wherein the fill port ferrule flange is sealed hermetically against the one of the cover wall or the case wall surrounding the opening by at least one of welding, laser welding, ultrasonic welding, brazing, soldering, crimping, compressing, gluing and epoxying. 16. The capacitor of claim 15, wherein the fill port tube and ferrule are formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 17. The capacitor of claim 10, wherein the fill port tube and ferrule formed of a metal selected from the group consisting of titanium, aluminum, stainless steel, and alloys or combinations thereof. 18. The capacitor of claim 17, wherein the case is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of aluminum, aluminum alloy, titanium, titanium alloy, and stainless steel. 19. The capacitor of claim 18, wherein the cover is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of aluminum, aluminum alloy, titanium, titanium alloy, and stainless steel. 20. In an implantable medical device having an electrical capacitor for storing a charge, the improvement to said capacitor comprising: a housing for containing electrodes and electrolyte of said electrical capacitor; a fill port extending into said housing enabling introduction of electrolyte into said housing; and a microporous plug sealing said fill port having pores sufficiently small as to prevent leakage of said electrolyte out of said housing through said fill port when said microporous plug is formed in said fill tube. 21. The improvement according to claim 20 wherein said microporous plug has pores sufficiently large to permit passage of hydrogen gas. 22. The improvement according to claim 21 wherein said microporous plug further comprises a microporous polymer. 23. The improvement according to claim 21, wherein said microporous plug further comprises one of three groups comprising silicone rubber, polyimide, epoxy, polyphenylene oxide, cellulose acetates, triacetates, and polysulfones. 