Methods used in semiconductor electroplating systems, such as for plating copper, onto a semiconductor wafer or other semiconductor workpiece. The methods apply to patterned metal layers plated onto seed layer which is partially protected by an overlying photoresist or other coating. The methods employ an electrode assembly which has a boot which seals about a contact face of the electrode. The sealing is performed by engaging the seal against photoresist to prevent corrosion of the seal layer. The area enclosed by the sealing includes a via which is surrounded by the seal. The electrode contact extends through the via to provide electrical contact with the metallic seed layer. Plating of copper or other metal proceeds at exposed seed layer areas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for electrochemically processing a wafer, comprising: selecting a contact assembly having at least one electrical contact and a yieldable sealing member, said yieldable sealing member having a bellows wall structure; engaging the surface of the wafer using the yieldable sealing member, said yieldable sealing member bearing against the surface of the wafer to form a barrier therewith that inhibits entry of processing fluid into a sealed space forming a first region that includes the at least one electrical contact, the yieldable sealing member also defining a second region external to said yieldable sealing member; contacting a contact point on the surface of the wafer with said electrical contact to form an electrically conductive connection between the contact assembly and said wafer, said contact point being disposed in the first region; contacting the surface of the wafer corresponding to the second region with an electrolyte pursuant to electrochemical processing of the surface; supplying electrical power through the electrical contact to the wafer to electrochemically process the portion of the wafer lying in the second region. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said yieldable sealing member includes a rim portion for engaging the surface of the wafer and forming a barrier therebetween. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein when contacting said contact point the yieldable sealing member yieldably deforms for enabling the electrical contact to contact said contacting point. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the rim portion of said yieldable sealing member splays outward when yieldably deforming. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said electrochemical process includes an electroplating process. 