A method of teaching a robot a desired operating path and a lead-through teach handle assembly are disclosed. A mounting mechanism mounts the entire handle assembly to an arm of the robot. The handle assembly also includes a handle that is supported by the mounting mechanism. A robot operator utilizes the handle assembly and grasps the handle to apply an external force to move the robot arm, or the operator, without the handle assembly, directly holds a tool connected to the robot arm to apply the external force at the tool. The handle assembly is characterized by a universal joint that interconnects the handle and the mounting mechanism and that accommodates orientation changes of the handle relative to the mounting mechanism that result from translational and rotational movement of the robot arm as the user is teaching the robot. The external force applied at the tool is estimated with either a force sensor disposed on the handle assembly or by monitoring the torque of motors used to move the robot. Motion commands are generated in response to the estimated force to power assist the operator in moving the robot arm. During teaching of the robot, the operator selects either a translational operating mode which limits the movement imparted on the tool only to translational movement, or a rotational operating mode which limits the movement imparted on the tool only to rotational movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A lead-through teach handle assembly for assisting a user in teaching a desired operating path to a robot including at least one robot arm in a robot workspace, said assembly comprising: a mounting mechanism adapted to be mounted to various mounting sites on the robot arm; a handle supported by said mounting mechanism, said handle adapted to provide at least one surface for the user to grasp such that the user can apply an external force required to move the arm of the robot along the desired operating path; said assembly characterized by a first joint member mounted to said handle and a second joint member mounted to said mounting mechanism, said first and second joint members coupled together to interconnect said handle and said mounting mechanism and to accommodate orientation changes of said handle relative to said mounting mechanism resulting from translational and rotational movement of the robot arm as the user is teaching the robot the desired operating path. 2. An assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of said first and second joint members are further defined as a connection yoke and a rotational coupling, said connection yokes and said rotational couplings being coupled together to establish a universal joint providing three-degrees of freedom of rotational movement. 3. An assembly as set forth in claim 2 further including a force sensor disposed between said universal joint and said mounting mechanism for sensing the external force applied at the arm of the robot. 4. An assembly as set forth in claim 3 wherein said force sensor is further defined as a three-degree of freedom force sensor for sensing each of the three-degrees of freedom provided by said universal joint. 5. An assembly as set forth in claim 3 wherein said mounting mechanism is further defined as a magnetic mounting device adapted to be detachably mounted to the various mounting sites on the robot arm such that said handle detaches from the robot arm when the external force applied by the user exceeds a predetermined force limit. 6. An assembly as set forth in claim 2 further including an extension shaft disposed between said handle and said universal joint, said extension shaft adapted to extend a reach of the user when moving the robot arm along the desired path. 7. An assembly as set forth in claim 6 wherein said extension shaft includes a first end mounted to said handle and a second end mounted to said universal joint. 8. An assembly as set forth in claim 6 wherein said extension shaft includes a plurality of shaft sections that slidably extend from one another such that said second end of said extension shaft telescopes outwardly from said first end of said extension shaft and the reach of the user varies as necessary when moving the robot arm along the desired path. 9. An assembly as set forth in claim 8 further including a hand support extending from said second end of said extension shaft, said hand support adapted to provide a second surface for the user to grasp to assist the user in applying the external force. 10. An assembly as set forth in claim 2 further including an operating mode switch disposed on said handle for allowing the user to select at least one teach operating mode depending upon the desired operating path to be taught wherein the selected teach operating mode distinguishes between (i) a translational operating mode which defines a first three-degrees of freedom of movement and limits the movement imparted on a tool to translational movement such that a first spacial relationship defined between an orientation of the tool and the workspace is maintained during teaching, and (ii) a rotational operating mode which defines a second three-degrees of freedom of movement and limits the movement imparted on the tool to rotational movement such that a second spacial relationship defined between a tool center point and the workspace is maintained during teaching. 11. An assembly as set forth in claim 10 wherein said universal joint is adapted to permit the movement of the robot arm in the first three-degrees of freedom when said operating mode switch selects the translational operating mode, and to permit the movement of the robot arm in the second three-degrees of freedom when said operating mode switch selects the rotational operating mode. 12. An assembly as set forth in claim 11 further including a position-record button disposed on said handle for recording a position of the robot along the desired operating path. 13. An assembly as set forth in claim 11 further including a deadman switch disposed on said handle and extending outwardly from said surface provided by said handle, said deadman switch operates between a first position where said deadman switch is depressed and the robot is activated such that teaching of the robot is possible, and a second position where said deadman switch is released and the robot is deactivated such that teaching of the robot is not possible. 14. A robot assembly comprising: at least one robot arm including at least one mounting site; a mounting mechanism mounted to said mounting site on said robot arm; a handle supported by said mounting mechanism, said handle adapted to provide at least one surface for a user to grasp such that the user can input a force required to move said robot arm along a desired operating path; said assembly characterized by a first joint member mounted to said handle and a second joint member mounted to said mounting mechanism, said first and second joint members coupled together to interconnect said handle and said mounting mechanism and to accommodate orientation changes of said handle relative to said mounting mechanism resulting from translational and rotational movement of said robot arm as the user is teaching the desired operating path. 15. An assembly as set forth in claim 14 wherein each of said first and second joint members are yokes coupled together to establish a universal joint having three-degrees of freedom. 16. An assembly as set forth in claim 15 further including a force sensor disposed between said universal joint and said mounting mechanism for sensing the external force applied at said robot arm. 17. An assembly as set forth in claim 16 wherein said force sensor is further defined as a three-degree of freedom force sensor for sensing each of the three-degrees of freedom provided by said universal joint. 18. An assembly as set forth in claim 16 further including a motor for moving said robot arm, and a controller operatively connected to said motor, said controller receiving data representing the external force sensed by said force sensor and generating motion commands in response to the sensed external force to power said motor and supplement the movement of said robot arm along the desired operating path. 19. An assembly as set forth in claim 15 further including an operating mode switch disposed on said handle for allowing the user to select at least one teach operating mode depending upon the desired operating path to be taught wherein the selected teach operating mode distinguishes between (i) a translational operating mode which defines a first three-degrees of freedom of movement and limits the movement imparted on a tool mounted to said robot arm to translational movement such that a first spacial relationship defined between an orientation of the tool and the workspace is maintained during teaching, and (ii) a rotational operating mode which defines a second three-degrees of freedom of movement and limits the movement imparted on the tool to rotational movement such that a second spacial relationship defined between a tool center point and a robot workspace is maintained during teaching. 20. An assembly as set forth in claim 19 wherein said universal joint permits the movement of said robot arm in the first three-degrees of freedom when said operating mode switch selects the translational operating mode, and permits the movement of said robot arm in the second three-degrees of freedom when said operating mode switch selects the rotational operating mode. 21. A method of teaching a robot assembly a desired operating path within a workspace wherein the robot assembly includes at least one robot arm, a motor, and a tool having a tool center point and an orientation, said method comprising the steps of: applying an external force at the tool to impart movement on the robot arm such that the arm of the robot assembly moves along the desired operating path wherein the imparted movement is at least one of translational movement and rotational movement; estimating the external force applied at the tool; generating motion commands in response to the external force to supplement the movement imparted on the tool in a direction of the estimated external force thereby assisting a user in moving the robot arm; and selecting at least one teach operating mode depending upon the desired operating path to be taught wherein the selected teach operating mode distinguishes between (i) a translational operating mode which defines a first three-degrees of freedom of movement and limits the movement imparted on the tool to translational movement such that a first spacial relationship defined between the orientation of the tool and the workspace is maintained during teaching, and (ii) a rotational operating mode which defines a second three-degrees of freedom of movement and limits the movement imparted on the tool to rotational movement such that a second spacial relationship defined between the tool center point and the workspace is maintained during teaching. 22. A method as set forth in claim 21 wherein the step of selecting at least one teach operating mode is further defined as selecting at least one of a translational operating sub-mode and a rotational operating sub-mode, wherein the translational operating sub-mode limits the movement imparted on the tool to fewer than the first three-degrees of freedom, and the rotational operating sub-mode limits the movement imparted on the tool to fewer than the second three-degrees of freedom. 23. A method as set forth in claim 21 wherein the step of applying the external force at the tool is further defined as manipulating a lead-through teach handle assembly which includes a universal joint having three-degrees of freedom and is mounted on the robot arm to apply the external force required to move the robot arm along the desired operating path. 24. A method as set forth in claim 23 wherein the step of estimating the external force applied at the tool is further defined by sensing each of the three-degrees of freedom provided by the universal joint with a three-degree of freedom force sensor. 25. A method as set forth in claim 24 wherein the step of estimating the external force is further defined as estimating both a magnitude and a direction of the external force. 26. A method as set forth in claim 24 wherein the step of selecting at least one teach operating mode is further defined by preventing rotational movement of the tool when the translational operating mode is selected and by preventing translational movement of the tool when the rotational operating mode is selected. 27. A method as set forth in claim 24 further including the step of powering the motor of the robot assembly in response to the generated motion command to supplement the movement imparted on the tool in the direction of the estimated external force. 28. A method as set forth in claim 24 wherein the step of selecting at least one teach operating mode is further defined by selecting both the translational operating mode and the rotational operating mode such that movement along the desired operating path occurs in both the first and second three-degrees of freedom. 29. A method as set forth in claim 24 further including the step of recording a position of the robot assembly along the desired operating path. 30. A method as set forth in claim 29 further including the step of playing-back the position of the robot assembly along the desired operating path after the position of the robot assembly has been recorded. 31. A method as set forth in claim 21 wherein the step of applying the external force at the tool is further defined as manually holding the tool of the robot assembly and leading the tool and the robot arm through the desired operating path. 32. A method as set forth in claim 31 wherein the step of estimating the external force applied at the tool is further defined by monitoring a torque of the motor to estimate the external force. 33. A method as set forth in claim 32 wherein the step of estimating the external force is further defined as estimating both a magnitude and a direction of the external force. 34. A method as set forth in claim 32 wherein the step of selecting at least one teach operating mode is further defined by preventing rotational movement of the tool when the translational operating mode is selected and by preventing translational movement of the tool when the rotational operating mode is selected. 35. A method as set forth in claim 32 further including the step of powering the motor of the robot assembly in response to the generated motion command to supplement the movement imparted on the tool in the direction of the estimated external force. 36. A method as set forth in claim 32 wherein the step of selecting at least one teach operating mode is further defined by selecting both the translational operating mode and the rotational operating mode such that movement along the desired operating path occurs in both the first and second three-degrees of freedom. 37. A method as set forth in claim 32 further including the step of recording a position of the robot assembly along the desired operating path. 38. A method as set forth in claim 37 further including the step of playing-back the position of the robot assembly along the desired operating path after the position of the robot assembly has been recorded. 39. A method as set forth in claim 32 wherein the step of monitoring the torque of the motor is further defined by selecting at least one robot axis where the torque of the motor is monitored. 40. A method as set forth in claim 39 wherein the at least one arm of the robot assembly is more specifically defined to include a base arm connected to a robot base, a main arm connected to the base arm, and a wrist arm that supports the tool and is connected to the main arm, wherein the step of selecting at least one robot axis is further defined by selecting a wrist axis defined between the tool and the wrist arm where the torque of the motor is to be monitored. 