A vacuum coating installation has at least a central distribution station which can be evacuated and has a transport arrangement driven in a controlled manner essentially along a plane, for the material to be treated. One operating station for the distribution station as well as at least two processing stations for the material to be treated are provided. The three or more stations communicate by way of operating openings with the distribution station, through which openings the material to be treated can be transported from one station into the other by the transport arrangement for the material to be treated. The material to be treated is formed by individual workpiece holders of the installation, each having a plurality of workpiece supports. On at least one of the processing stations, a drive and a driving connection, which can be established and released in a controlled manner, between the drive and the workpiece supports of a workpiece holder introduced in the processing station is provided for ensuring a three-dimensional workpiece processing in the processing station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vacuum coating installation for treating multiple workpieces, comprising a central distribution vacuum station having a workpiece transport arrangement controllably driven in said central distribution station for movement essentially along a plane; at least three further vacuum stations for the workpieces communicating by way of workpiece handling openings with said central distribution station, wherein said workpiece transport arrangement is configured and arranged to handle said multiple workpieces from said central distribution chamber through said workpiece handling openings towards and from respective one of said further vacuum stations; a workpiece carrier for more than one of said workpieces being releasably mounted to said workpiece transport arrangement so as to transport and handle said workpieces arranged on said workpiece carrier; and a drive arrangement having a releasable coupling for said workpiece carrier in at least one of said further vacuum stations. 2. Coating installation according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said stations is a coating station. 3. The installation of claim 2, wherein said coating station comprises at least one source for layer deposition by one of PVD and of PECVD. 4. The installation of claim 3, wherein said coating station has at least one inlet connected with a gas supply device containing a reactive gas. 5. The installation according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said stations comprises at least one of the following sources: a thermal vaporizing source, a cathodic arc vaporizing source, a magnetron sputtering source, a plasma source for PECVD. 6. The installation according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said stations is a station for at least one of PVD processing and of PECVD processing. 7. The installation according to claim 1, wherein one of said stations is a heating station. 8. The installation according to claim 1, wherein one of said stations is an etching station. 9. The installation according to claim 1, wherein one of said stations is an etching and heating station and a time control unit is operationally connected therewith to control a heating and an etching operation sequence. 10. The installation according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said stations is provided for different workpiece processing operations, which at least one station is operationally connected with a time control unit to control a time sequence of the different workpiece processing operations thereat. 11. The installation according to claim 1, wherein a time control unit is operatively connected with at least one of a drive for said workpiece transport arrangement in said central distribution station and of a drive for said drive arrangement having a releasable coupling so as to control the timely sequence of transport cycles by said workpiece transport arrangement and of treatment cycles within said at least one of said further vacuum stations. 12. The installation of claim 1, further comprising a time control unit controlling the installation such that the workpieces to be treated stay in said at least three further vacuum stations essentially for an equally long time. 13. The installation according to claim 1, wherein a sealing arrangement is provided at the workpiece transport arrangement which sealing arrangement is operationally connected with the handling openings in a sealing manner and which is optionally controllable independently of a movement of said workpiece transport arrangement. 14. The installation of claim 1, wherein said drive arrangement for said workpiece carrier comprises a driving connection for said workpiece relative to said workpiece carrier. 15. The installation according to claim 14, wherein said driving connection is configured additionally to act upon said workpiece supports movably disposed at said workpiece carrier. 16. The installation according to claim 1, wherein said workpiece transport arrangement for the workpieces is rotatably movable about a central axis in the central distribution vacuum station and has at least one support arrangement for one workpiece carrier respectively, which support arrangement is radially movable with respect to said central axis. 17. The installation of claim 1, further comprising a time control unit operatively connected at least with a drive of said workpiece transport arrangement in said central distribution chamber and with drive of said drive arrangement having said releasable coupling as well as with drives for load lock valves. 18. The installation of claim 17, wherein said time control unit is freely programmable. 19. The installation of claim 1, wherein said drive arrangement having a releasable coupling comprises a station truncated-cone wheel, which truncated-cone wheel projects into said at least one station, said workpiece carrier having a projecting workpiece carrier truncated-cone wheel, respective abutting surfaces of said station truncated-cone wheel and of said workpiece carrier truncated-cone wheel resting on one another with said workpiece carrier being in said station and in a processing position. 20. The installation of claim 19, wherein at least one of said truncated-cone wheels is axially resiliently disposed respectively on said workpiece and at said at least one station. 21. The installation of claim 19, wherein said workpiece carrier truncated-cone wheel is rotatably driveably coupled with workpiece supports on said workpiece carrier and a motor-operated rotary drive is provided on a station-side being coupled with said workpiece carrier truncated-cone wheel as said workpiece carrier is in processing position within said station. 22. The installation of claim 19, wherein a station-side rotary drive for said workpiece carrier truncated-cone wheel is operatively connected with said station truncated-cone wheel or is directly operatively connected to said workpiece carrier truncated-cone wheel. 23. The installation of claim 19, surfaces of both of said truncated-cone wheel being in mutual contact as said workpiece carrier is in processing position within said station are of electrically conductive material, whereby said surface of said workpiece carrier truncated-cone wheel is electrically connected to an electric source. 24. The installation of claim 23, wherein said electric source is adjustable. 25. The installation according to claim 19, wherein at least one of said abutting surfaces being the smaller one of the respective truncated-cone wheel. 26. The installation according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said stations has at least one inlet connected with a gas supply device containing at least one of the following gasses: nitrogen hydrogen, a carbon-containing gas, a silicon-containing gas. 27. Installation according to claim 1, wherein the workpiece carrier has a sealing plate for the handling openings connecting the stations, which sealing plate is connected with the workpiece carrier to form a unit, and, on at least one of the openings, a tensioning device is provided to be operated independently of the workpiece transport arrangement, which tensioning device affects a sealing plate placed on the handle opening. 28. Installation according to claim 27, wherein the tensioning arrangement comprises a roller arrangement, on a station side or on a sealing plate side, which is displaceable by a motor, and a cam plate, and the roller arrangement is in an operative connection with a curved path of the cam plate for establishing or releasing sealing pressure between the sealing plate and an opening edge. 29. The installation according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said stations is provided with a source, which release at least one of the following materials: a metal or an alloy including at least one of Ti, W, Al, Cr, Mo; Si, C; and an oxide, nitride, oxynitride, carbide, oxycarbide, oxycarbonitride, sulfide of one of the above-mentioned metals or alloys. 30. Installation according to claim 1, wherein the workpiece transport arrangement in the central distribution vacuum station, has a shears mechanism respectively for respective individual workpiece carriers, with one pair of lever arrangements which are centrally swivellably disposed relative to one another such that swivel bearing lever arms to respective lever end bearings are of the same length. 31. The installation according to claim 30, wherein at least one end-disposed lever swivel bearing of the shears mechanism is linearly displaceably disposed on a central arrangement of the workpiece transport arrangement, and a drive of the shears mechanism comprises a linear drive for the at least one linearly displaceably disposed end bearing or comprises a swivel drive. 32. The installation of claim 31, wherein said drive of said shears mechanism comprises a swivel drive, said swivel drive comprising a drive which acts by way of a cam disk and a lever upon one of the shears levers. 33. The installation of claim 1, further comprising a sealing arrangement for said handling openings forming with said workpiece carrier a unit respectively. 34. Electric and/or mechanical coupling arrangement between a vacuum treatment station and a workpiece holder with workpieces to be processed in the station, comprising a station-side truncated-cone wheel and a workpiece-holder-side truncated-cone wheel, whose small faces, in a processing position of the workpiece carrier in the station, rest on one another and establish a mechanical driving connection and/or an electric transmission connection from the station to the workpiece carrier. 