The invention provides a device and method for dispensing fluid materials from a product reservoir onto a substrate. The device includes at least one dispensing nozzle having at least one inner conduit leading to an exit port and adaptable to be in fluid communication with a supply source for the fluid dispensable material. The nozzle further comprises an end portion defining the exit port such that a ribbon of fluid dispensable material can be applied to the substrate. The nozzle is mountable on means that effect substantially perpendicular free movement of the nozzle relative to the substrate, such that the end portion of the nozzle maintains contact with the fluid material applied to the substrate. During dispensing, movement towards the substrate is effected by an applied force and movement away from the substrate is effected by a thrust exerted by the dispensed fluid material against said end portion of the nozzle and the dispensable material in the exit port.
Claims I claim: 1. A device for the dispensing of a fluid dispensable material in ribbon form to a substrate comprising: a) a robot arm programmable to move about the substrate in a plane substantially parallel to the substrate, b) at least one dispensing nozzle having at least one inner conduit leading to exit port and adaptable to be in fluid communication with a supply source for the fluid dispensable material, the nozzle having an end portion defining the exit port such that a ribbon of dispensed fluid material can be applied to the substrate, c) means for mounting the nozzle for substantially perpendicular free movement relative to the substrate such that at least part of the end portion of the nozzle maintains contact with the fluid material applied to the substrate, movement towards the substrate being effected by an applied force and movement away from the substrate being effected by a thrust exerted by the dispensed fluid material against said end portion of the nozzle and the dispensable material in the exit port, d) a slide mounting means for mounting the nozzle relative to the robot arm, the slide mounting means allowing free movement of the nozzle to and relative to the robot arm in a direction substantially perpendicular to the plane of movement of the robot arm, e) a spring component acting on the slide mounting means, and f) adjustment means acting on the spring component so that an applied force on the nozzle is modulated to maintain equilibrium between movement of the nozzle towards the substrate and away from substrate during the dispensing procedure. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the means for mounting the nozzle maintain an equilibrium between the movement towards the substrate and movement away from the substrate during the dispensing procedure, with the thrust exerted by the dispensed fluid material being substantially equal in magnitude to the applied force such that the nozzle floats on the dispensed ribbon of material. 3. The device as claimed claim 1 wherein the thrust exerted by the dispensed fluid material against the end portion of the nozzle and the fluid present in the exit port is equivalent to an buoyant force. 4. The device as claimed in claim 3 wherein a perimeter of the nozzle end portion defines a reaction area against which the buoyant force, which is related to a pressure integral of pressure exerted by the dispensed material on the reaction area, may react. 5. The device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the at least one nozzle is a single nozzle having a single inner conduit, the end portion of which is preferably an annular shaped surface. 6. The device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the end portion of the nozzle is mounted so that an end force thereof is substantially parallel to said substrate. 7. The device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the end portion has an outside diameter in the range from about 2.5 mm to about 10 mm and the exit port defined by said end portion has a diameter in the range 1 mm to about 5 mm. 8. The device as claimed in claim 1 for dispensing an adhesive and preferably an anaerobic adhesive. 9. The device as claimed in claim 1 for dispensing a fluid whose DIN viscosity is in the range from about 7,500 to 90,000 mP.s. 10. The device is claimed in claim 1 wherein the nozzle is connected to a valve, an upper ledge portion of the valve butting against a lower face of the valve and the means for mounting the nozzle for substantially perpendicular free movement relative to the substrate allows a movement of the valve and nozzle combination. 11. The device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the nozzle is in fluid communication with a valve, the valve being located remotely from the nozzle and the means for mounting the nozzle for substantially perpendicular free movement relative to the substrate allows no movement of the valve. 12. The device as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a spring component, wherein the applied force comprises a gravitational force component effected by the weight of the means for mounting the nozzle acting in a direction towards the substrate modulated by the force effected by the spring component acting in a direction away from the substrate. 13. An apparatus for dispensing a fluid product onto a substrate, the apparatus comprising a nozzle and means for mounting the nozzle with at least one degree of freedom allowing movement of the nozzle relative to the substrate, with movement towards the substrate being effected by a substantially constant force acting on the nozzle and movement away from the substrate being effected by a force related to the pressure exerted by the dispensed fluid on the nozzle. 14. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein the substantially constant force which effects movement towards the substrate comprises a gravitational component modulated by a counter-acting spring component, the magnitude of the substantially constant force being chosen so as to be substantially equal in magnitude to the force effecting movement away from the substrate. 15. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein the nozzle is in fluid communication with a product reservoir which is pressurised such that the product is dispensed under pressure. 16. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13 having means for mounting the nozzle such that the interaction between the nozzle and the dispensed product allows the nozzle to adjust its height relative to the substrate as a result of variations in the dispensed product. 17. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein the nozzle has an inner conduit leading to an exit port and adapted to be in fluid communication with the product reservoir, the nozzle having an end portion, the diameter of the end portion being 10 to 30% smaller that the width of the fluid product to be dispensed on the substrate. 18. A method for dispensing a fluid dispensable material to a substrate comprising the steps of a) mounting a dispensing nozzle, in a manner which allows substantially perpendicular free movement of the nozzle relative to the substrate, b) facilitating the application of an applied force on the dispensing nozzle to effect movement of the nozzle in a direction towards the substrate, and c) supplying the fluid dispensable material to an exit port which is defined by an end portion of the nozzle, applying the material to the substrate and controlling the applied force in relation to a thrust exerted by the dispensed fluid material on the end portion of the nozzle and the dispensable material therein such that the end portion of the nozzle maintains contact with the dispensed material applied to the substrate. 19. The method as claimed in claim 18 wherein the fluid is laid onto the surface in a ribbon of material. 20. The method as claimed in claim 19 wherein the thrust exerted by the dispensed fluid is substantially equal in magnitude to the applied force such that the nozzle floats on the dispensed fluid. 21. The method as claimed in claim 18 wherein the thrust exerted by the dispensed fluid on the nozzle is a buoyant force which is related to one or more of the following: a) the pressure exerted by the dispensed fluid on the nozzle end portion, b) the pressure exerted by the dispensed fluid on the fluid material at the exit port, and c) the distance of the nozzle away from the substrate, wherein the nozzle adjusts its position relative to the substrate as a result of fluctuations in the magnitude of said buoyant force. 22. The method as claimed in claim 18 wherein a ribbon of dispensed fluid material is applied onto the substrate at a thickness greater than the surface roughness of the substrate. 23. The method as claimed in claim 18 wherein the pressure exerted by the dispensed fluid on the nozzle is less than the force acting towards the substrate so that the nozzle rides on the substrate resulting in local points of contact between the substrate and the nozzle. 24. A method for dispensing a fluid dispensable material from a nozzle to a substrate comprising the steps of a) supplying the fluid dispensable material to an exit port which is defined by an end portion of the nozzle, b) applying the material to the substrate, c) smearing the applied material with the end portion of the nozzle, the width of the applied smeared material on the substrate being related to the diameter of the end portion of the nozzle. 25. The method as claimed in claim 24 wherein the width of the applied smeared material is about 10% to about 30% larger than the diameter of the end portion of the nozzle. 26. A device for the dispensing of a fluid dispensable material in ribbon form to a substrate comprising: a) a robot arm programmable to move about the substrate in a plane substantially parallel to the substrate, b) at least one dispensing nozzle having at least one inner conduit leading to an exit port and adaptable to be in fluid communication with a supply source for the fluid dispensable material, the nozzle having an end portion defining an exit port such that a ribbon of dispensed fluid can be applied to the substrate, and c) means for mounting the nozzle for substantially perpendicular free movement relative to the substrate such that at least part of the end portion of the nozzle maintains contact with the fluid material applied to the substrate, movement towards the substrate being effected by an applied force and movement away from the substrate being effected by a thrust exerted by the dispensed fluid material against said end portion of the nozzle and the dispensable material in the exit port. 