An apparatus and method for cleaning and rinsing of disk-shaped objects, such as silicon wafers, high precision lenses and the like. The cleaning and rinsing may take place in a single chamber, that is sequentially filled with cleaning solution, rinsing solution, and the like. In an important aspect of the invention, chemical cleaning solutions are dumped to containers and recycled for the use. Moreover, a cleaning solution composition may be monitored, and the concentration of solution can be adjusted automatically, or make-up chemicals may be added, as necessary. The apparatus has a relatively small footprint and maybe surrounded with an enclosure that may be kept at lower than atmosphere pressure to prevent escape of potentially hazardous contaminants into the environment. In preferred embodiments of the invention, the handling of wafers to be cleaned is carried out robotically, most preferably using a robot with at least two end-effectors, each adapted for a specific function. The apparatus of the invention provides the advantage of permitting the recycling of cleaning solutions, thereby reducing the amount of hazardous waste generated for disposal, while at the same time reducing the cost of cleaning and rinsing wafers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for cleaning semiconductor wafers and reusing a chemical cleaning solution, the apparatus comprising: (a) a chamber sized for receiving a plurality of wafers to be cleaned; (b) an outlet in the base of the chamber for draining liquids from the chamber; (c) a plenum located below the chamber, the plenum in fluid communication with the chamber via the chamber outlet, the plenum comprising at least two outlets in a base thereof; (d) at least two holding tanks, each of the tanks in fluid communication with one of the at least two outlets of the plenum to receive liquids drained through the respective outlet when the apparatus is in use; (e) a recycle system for at least one of the holding tanks, the recycle system comprising: (i) an analyzer for chemical analysis of liquid recycled in the at least one holding tank when the apparatus is in use; (ii) a particle detector for detection of particles in liquids recycled in the at least one holding tank when the apparatus is in use; and (iii) a pump with an inlet port in fluid communication with the at least one of the holding tanks for recycling of liquid; wherein each of the at least 2 outlets in the base of the plenum is equipped with a fast-acting valve, each valve in communication with a conduit for draining liquid from the plenum to one of the at least two holding tanks; and wherein at least one of the valves has a domed upper surface, the dome extending above the level of the base of the plenum and the peripheral edges of the dome not sunken below the level of the surrounding plenum base. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the chamber comprises quartz, interior surfaces of the chamber being smooth and substantially free of traps for liquids or particulates. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the quartz chamber comprises side walls having thicknesses of about 3 mm. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a megasonic generator mounted to a side of the chamber. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a megasonic generator mounted to a base portion of the chamber. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the outlet in the base of the chamber extends substantially along an entire length of the chamber. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plenum has a sufficient vertical height to prevent the migration of particulates from cleaned wafers from the base of the plenum back into the chamber. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein one of the at least two holding tanks comprises a surrounding heater and the surrounding heater is enclosed with an insulating material. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein materials of construction having surfaces exposed to chemical cleaning solutions when the apparatus is in use comprises a material substantially resistant to corrosion by the cleaning solution at temperatures from the range from about 60 to about 90.degree. C. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the recycle system further comprises a control system, the control system comprising a programmable processor, the processor receiving inputs from the analyzer and the particle detector, and controlling a proportion of liquid from the holding tanks to be recycled, based on the inputs from the analyzer and the particle detector. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the processor controls control valves for supplying make-up chemical solution to the at least one of the holding tanks, and for removing liquid from said holding tank based on inputs from the analyzer and the particle detector. 