A system and method for planarizing a plurality of semiconductor wafers is provided. The method includes the steps of processing each wafer along the same process path using at least two polishing stations to each partially planarize the wafers. The system includes an improved process path exchanging a detachable wafer carrying head with spindles at each processing point and conveying the detached wafer carrying heads in a rotary index table between processing points. The system also provides for improved polishing accuracy using linear polishers having pneumatically adjustable belt tensioning and aligning capabilities.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for uniformly planarizing and cleaning a surface of at least one semiconductor wafer, the method comprising: providing a semiconductor wafer and a semiconductor wafer polishing system; transporting the semiconductor wafer to one of a plurality of wafer receiving areas in a wafer conveyor and transporting the semiconductor wafer to a first primary polishing station; removing the semiconductor wafer from the wafer conveyor and performing a first polishing procedure to partially planarize the surface of the semiconductor wafer; transferring the semiconductor wafer back to the wafer conveyor and transporting the semiconductor wafer on the wafer conveyor to a second polishing station; and removing the semiconductor wafer from the wafer conveyor and performing a second polishing procedure to complete planarization of the semiconductor wafer. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of transporting the semiconductor wafer via the wafer conveyor to a third polishing station after performing the second polishing procedure and performing a final polish on the semiconductor wafer at the third polishing station, whereby any residual scratches on the semiconductor wafer left by the first and second polishing procedures are removed. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising the steps of transporting the semiconductor wafer to a wafer cleaner and cleaning the wafer to remove all residue from the wafer. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the steps of performing the first and second polishing procedures comprise removing material from the surface of the semiconductor wafer using a linear wafer polisher. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of performing the first polishing procedure comprises polishing the wafer on a first linear wafer polisher using a first polishing fluid and the step of performing the second polishing procedure comprises polishing the wafer on a second linear wafer polisher using a second polishing fluid. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of rinsing off the semiconductor wafer while transporting the semiconductor wafer from the first linear wafer polisher to the second linear wafer polisher, whereby the first polishing fluid is removed prior to performing the second polishing procedure. 7. A method of efficiently and uniformly planarizing a semiconductor wafer comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of semiconductor wafers; providing a wafer polishing apparatus having a plurality of polishing stations positioned around a semiconductor wafer conveyor; a) transferring a semiconductor wafer to the semiconductor wafer conveyor; b) moving the semiconductor wafer to a first of the plurality of polishing stations; c) removing the wafer from the semiconductor wafer conveyor; d) polishing the semiconductor wafer at the first polishing station for a set time period; e) transferring the wafer to the wafer conveyor; f) moving the semiconductor wafer to a next one of the plurality of polishing stations; g) removing the wafer from the wafer conveyor; h) polishing the semiconductor wafer at the next polishing station for the set time period; and i) repeating steps e) through h), wherein the set time period equals a predetermined total polishing time divided by a total number of the plurality of polishing stations. 8. An apparatus for performing chemical mechanical planarization of a plurality of semiconductor wafers implementing a single process path for each of the plurality of semiconductor wafers, the apparatus comprising: a wafer conveyor having a plurality of wafer receiving areas, the wafer conveyor movable to receive a semiconductor wafer in each of the plurality of wafer receiving areas from a wafer conveyor loading device and sequentially move each of the plurality of semiconductor wafers along a process path; a first polishing station positioned along the process path for planarizing a semiconductor wafer over a predetermined time to produce a partly planarized semiconductor wafer; and a second polishing station positioned along the process path, the second primary polishing station designed to planarize the partly planarized semiconductor over the predetermined time to produce a fully planarized semiconductor wafer, whereby each of the plurality of semiconductor wafers travels the process path via the wafer conveyor and each of the plurality of semiconductor wafers is planarized on both the first and second primary polishing stations. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a third polishing station positioned along the process path to receive the fully planarized semiconductor wafer from the wafer conveyor, the third polishing station for removing residual scratches and chemical slurry from the fully planarized wafer. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the third polishing station comprises a rotary buffing device. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the third polishing station comprises a linear belt buffing device. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a wafer cleaning unit positioned adjacent the wafer conveyor, the wafer cleaning unit having a wafer input station and a wafer output station, wherein the wafer cleaning unit cleans and dries the fully planarized wafer between the wafer input and output stations. 13. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the wafer conveyor comprises: a rotatable index table; the rotatable index table positioned below and suspended from a rotary indexer; a motor operably connected to the rotary indexer and controllable to move the index table in predefined increments in a single direction, whereby the rotary index table incrementally turns in a continuous 360.degree. pattern during wafer processing. 14. The wafer conveyor of claim 13, wherein the wafer conveyor is positioned above the first and second polishing stations. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the index table comprises a plurality of horizontally disposed arms. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein a first end of each of the arms is connected to a respective one of the wafer receiving areas. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein a second end of each arm is attached to a central hub, the central hub connected to the rotary indexer. 18. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the first and second polishing stations each comprise a linear belt polisher. 19. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the first polishing station utilizes a first polishing fluid and the second polishing station utilizes a second polishing fluid. 20. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a spindle drive assembly positioned over each of the polishing stations, each spindle drive assembly having a spindle for moving the wafer from the wafer conveyor to its respective polishing station. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the spindle is movably connected to a coarse adjustment mechanism and a fine adjustment mechanism, wherein the coarse adjustment mechanism moves the spindle substantially all of a distance from the wafer conveyor to a primary wafer polisher and the fine adjustment mechanism moves the spindle a remainder of the distance from the wafer conveyor to the polishing station until the wafer is pressed against the primary wafer polisher. 22. An apparatus for performing chemical mechanical planarization of a plurality of semiconductor wafers implementing a single process path for each of the plurality of semiconductor wafers, the apparatus comprising: a wafer conveyor having a plurality of wafer receiving areas, the wafer conveyor movable to receive a semiconductor wafer in each of the plurality of wafer receiving areas from a wafer conveyor loading device and sequentially move each of the plurality of semiconductor wafers along a process path; a first polishing station positioned along the process path for planarizing a semiconductor wafer over a predetermined time to produce a partly planarized semiconductor wafer; a second polishing station positioned along the process path, the second primary polishing station designed to planarize the partly planarized semiconductor over the predetermined time to produce a fully planarized semiconductor wafer; a third polishing station positioned along the process path to receive the fully planarized semiconductor wafer from the wafer conveyor, the third polishing station for removing residual scratches and polishing fluid from the fully planarized wafer; and a central controller electrically connected to the wafer conveyor, the first, second and third polishing stations, wherein the central controller manages processing of the plurality of semiconductor wafers along the process path. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising: a wafer holding cartridge for receiving a plurality of semiconductor wafers; a first wafer transfer robot, the wafer transfer robot configured to move individual semiconductor wafers to and from the wafer holding cartridge; a transfer station positioned between the first wafer transfer robot and a second wafer transfer robot, the transfer station having a wafer receiving area to receive a wafer from the first wafer transfer robot; the second wafer transfer robot positioned between the transfer station and the wafer conveyor loader, the second wafer transfer robot also positioned adjacent a scrubber mechanism, wherein the second wafer transfer robot is controlled by the central controller to transport a processed wafer from the wafer conveyor loader to the scrubber and an unprocessed wafer from the transfer station to the wafer conveyor loader. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the third polishing station comprises a linear polisher adapted to remove material from the fully planarized wafer at a rate of less than 1,000 angstroms per minute. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein the first and second polishing stations each comprise a linear polisher adapted to remove material from the wafer at a rate of at least 1,000 angstroms per minute. 