Flat electrolytic capacitors particularly for use in implantable medical devices having stacked cathode and anode layers particular electrical connections of the capacitor anode and cathode layers with a capacitor connector assembly. Anode terminal means extend through the capacitor case side wall for electrically connecting a plurality of the anode tabs to one another and providing an anode connection terminal at the exterior of the case that is electrically insulated from the case. A cathode terminal extends through or to an encapsulation area of the capacitor case side wall via a cathode terminal passageway for electrically connecting a plurality of the cathode tabs to one another and providing a cathode connection terminal at the exterior of the case. The connector assembly is electrically attached to the anode connection terminal for making electrical connection with the anode tabs and to the cathode connection terminal for making electrical connection with the cathode tabs. The cathode terminal passageway comprises a cathode opening extending through the case wall, and the cathode terminal comprises a cathode wire or feedthrough pin extending from the gathered cathode tabs into or through the cathode opening providing the cathode connection terminal electrically connected with the case. Alternatively, the terminal passageway comprises a portion of an interior ledge of the side wall upper opening edge having a width and depth depressed below the upper opening edge and a cover edge portion overlying the ledge to trap the cathode terminal when the cover is welded to the crimped upper edge. The cathode terminal comprises a cathode tab extension foil attached to the gathered cathode tabs or an extension of one, a plurality or all of the cathode tabs.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of fabricating an electrolytic capacitor comprising: providing a capacitor case defining an interior case chamber bounded by a case wall, the case further comprising a case base with a case side wall extending from the case base to a side wall upper opening edge and a cover adapted to be hermetically sealed at a cover edge against the side wall upper opening edge to enclose the interior case chamber; forming an anode terminal passageway through said case wall; forming a cathode terminal passageway through said case wall; forming an electrode stack assembly adapted to be located within the interior case chamber, the electrode stack assembly further comprising a plurality of capacitor layers stacked in registration upon one another, each capacitor layer comprising a cathode layer having a cathode tab, an anode sub-assembly comprising at least one anode layer having an anode tab, and a separator layer located between adjacent anode and cathode layers, whereby all adjacent cathode layers and anode layers of the stack are electrically insulated from one another by a separator layer; providing an anode terminal; coupling a first anode terminal end of an anode terminal electrically and mechanically with a plurality of said anode tabs; extending a second anode terminal end of said anode terminal through said anode terminal passageway; supporting said anode terminal extending through said anode terminal passageway while electrically insulating said anode terminal from said case wall thereby locating an anode connection terminal at said second anode terminal end exterior to said case wall; providing a cathode terminal; coupling a first cathode terminal end of a cathode terminal electrically and mechanically with a plurality of said cathode tabs extending a second cathode terminal end of said cathode terminal through said cathode terminal passageway; electrically and mechanically sealing said cathode terminal into said cathode terminal passageway to seal said cathode terminal passageway thereby making electrical connection of said cathode tabs with said case wail and providing a cathode connection terminal at or coupled to the exterior surface of the case wall; and attaching a connector assembly to said anode connection terminal to make electrical connection with said anode tabs and to said cathode connection terminal to make electrical connection with said cathode tabs. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: forming a connector block against said capacitor case to cover and electrically insulate said exposed anode and cathode connection terminals and the connector assemble coupled thereto. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of electrically coupling a connector assembly to said anode and cathode connection terminals further comprises: cross-wire welding an exposed anode wire end of an anode lead wire of the wiring harness to said anode connection terminal at said second anode terminal end; and cross-wire welding an exposed cathode wire end of a cathode lead wire of the wiring harness to said cathode connection terminal at said second cathode terminal end. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of electrically coupling a connector assembly to said anode and cathode connection terminals further comprises: cross-wire welding an exposed anode wire end of an anode lead wire of the wiring harness to said anode connection terminal at said second anode terminal end; grinding the second cathode terminal end flush with the case wall at the cathode connection terminal; and surface welding an exposed cathode wire end of a cathode lead wire of the wiring harness to said cathode connection terminal on the exterior case wall. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of electrically coupling a connector assembly to said anode and cathode connection terminals further comprises: cross-wire welding an exposed anode wire end of an anode lead wire of the wiring harness to said anode connection terminal at said second anode terminal end; grinding the second cathode terminal end flush with the case wall at the cathode connection terminal; and surface welding an exposed cathode wire end of a cathode lead wire of the wiring harness to said cathode connection terminal on the exterior case wall. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of electrically coupling a connector assembly to said anode and cathode connection terminals further comprises: cross-wire welding an exposed anode wire end of an anode lead wire of the wiring harness to said anode connection terminal at said second anode terminal end; and cross-wire welding an exposed cathode wire end of a cathode lead wire of the wiring harness to said cathode connection terminal at said second cathode terminal end. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the step of forming a cathode terminal passageway through said case wall comprises defining a cathode terminal passageway between a portion of the cover edge and the side wall upper opening edge; the step of providing a cathode terminal comprises providing a cathode tab extension foil of conductive material having a foil length and foil width, a first cathode terminal end and a second cathode terminal end; and the step of electrically and mechanically sealing said cathode terminal into said cathode terminal passageway to seal said cathode terminal passageway thereby making electrical connection of said cathode tabs with said case wall and providing a cathode connection terminal at or coupled to the exterior surface of the case wall comprises sealing the second cathode terminal end of the cathode tab extension foil between a portion of the cover edge and the side wall upper opening edge. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of providing a capacitor case further comprises forming a relief in the case cover edge to receive said second cathode terminal end extending across said side wall upper opening edge and trapped there by the relieved portion of the cover edge. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of electrically coupling a connector assembly to said anode and cathode connection terminals further comprises: cross-wire welding an exposed anode wire end of an anode lead wire of the wiring harness to said anode connection terminal at said second anode terminal end; and surface welding an exposed cathode wire end of a cathode lead wire of the wiring harness to said cathode connection terminal on the exterior case wall. 10. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of: forming a connector block against said capacitor case to cover and electrically insulate said exposed anode and cathode connection terminals and the connector assemble coupled thereto. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein: the step of forming a cathode terminal passageway through said case wall comprises defining a cathode terminal passageway between a portion of the cover edge and the side wall upper opening edge; the step of providing a cathode terminal comprises providing cathode tab extensions of the cathode tabs having a tab length and tab width, a first cathode terminal end and a second cathode terminal end; and the step of electrically and mechanically sealing said cathode terminal into said cathode terminal passageway to seal said cathode terminal passageway thereby making electrical connection of said cathode tabs with said case wall and providing a cathode connection terminal at or coupled to the exterior surface of the case wall comprises sealing at least one of the second cathode terminal ends of the cathode tabs between a portion of the cover edge and the side wall upper opening edge. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of providing a capacitor case further comprises forming a relief in the case cover edge to receive said second cathode terminal end extending across said side wall upper opening edge and trapped there by the relieved portion of the cover edge. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of electrically coupling a connector assembly to said anode and cathode connection terminals further comprises: cross-wire welding an exposed anode wire end of an anode lead wire of the wiring harness to said anode connection terminal at said second anode terminal end; and surface welding an exposed cathode wire end of a cathode lead wire of the wiring harness to said cathode connection terminal on the exterior case wall. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of: forming a connector block against said capacitor case to cover and electrically insulate said exposed anode and cathode connection terminals and the connector assemble coupled thereto. 