A uniformly applied monolithic roofing surface membrane at appropriate thickness and pitch is field applied upon a surface. The surface membrane may be field applied from a spray applicator foam dispenser moving between two parallel tracks. The uniform application of foam at each pass is assured, by accelerating the speed of the foam dispenser at the end of each pass, by providing continuous movement of the spray applicator upon the tracks. The monolithic roofing surface monolithic thus formed includes a spontaneously curable polymer, such as low rise polyurethane adhesive or polyurethane foam, having a mesh such as of fabric or fiberglass therein, with a silicone coating thereon.
Claims I claim: 1. A monolithic roofing surface membrane formed in place on and in combination with a roof, said roofing surface membrane comprising: a sprayed-on seamless first layer of a spontaneously curable polymer, said polymer having a lower surface integral with the roof, a second layer of a mesh placed on said first layer of polymer during curing, said mesh including a plurality of fibers separated by recesses, wherein upon curing said cured polymer extends through said recesses in said mesh and surrounds said fibers of said mesh, and, said first and second layers being covered by a waterproof and ultraviolet resistant coating. 2. The monolithic roofing surface membrane as in claim 1 wherein said curable polymer is low rise polyurethane adhesive. 3. The monolithic roofing surface membrane as in claim 1 wherein said curable polymer is polyurethane foam. 4. The monolithic roofing surface membrane as in claim 1 wherein said mesh is a fabric. 5. The monolithic roofing surface membrane as in claim 4 wherein said fabric is a non-woven polyester. 6. The monolithic roofing surface membrane as in claim, 1 wherein said mesh is a fiberglass mesh. 7. The monolithic roofing surface membrane as in claim 1 wherein said mesh comprises aramid. 8. The monolithic roofing surface membrane as in claim 1 wherein said mesh comprises nylon. 9. The monolithic roofing surface membrane as in claim 1 wherein said waterproof and ultraviolet coating is a silicone composition for sealing said first and second layers. 10. The monolithic roofing surface membrane as in claim 9 wherein said silicone composition comprises a siloxane. 11. The monolithic roofing surface membrane as in claim 1 wherein said monolithic roofing surface membrane is between about one quarter (1/4) and about 2 inches in thickness. 12. The monolithic roofing surface membrane as in claim 1 wherein said roofing surface membrane is about one quarter (1/4) inch in thickness. 