The apparatus is designed to dispense sealants and adhesives onto a workpiece in a robotic or manual application. The apparatus has a motor, a through shaft and a rotating shaft. The rotating shaft is hollow and has an off-center aperture at the end thereof through which extends one end of the through shaft. By rotating the rotating shaft, the end of the through shaft has imparted to it an orbital motion which is capable of providing a swirl type pattern onto the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotically mountable orbital dispenser for application of viscous materials and connected to a source thereof, said dispenser comprising: a housing having first and second ends; a tube having first and second ends, said tube first end having an axis and being firmly fixed to said housing adjacent said housing first end and wherein said tube is constructed of such a length, thickness and material as to allow it to flex while swirling; means for imparting a rotary motion being located in said housing, said means comprising a motor having an axis of rotation, a rotating shaft having first and second ends and being mounted inside said housing and having an axis of rotation, said tube first end axis, said motor axis of rotation and said shaft axis of rotation being generally coincident, said shaft first end being attached to said motor and said shaft second end being rotatably mounted in said housing second end said tube second end being eccentrically and rotatable mounted in said shaft second end so as to allow a swirling motion to be imparted to said tube second end. 2. The orbital dispenser of claim 1, wherein said tube is adhesively affixed to said housing first end. 3. The orbital dispenser of claim 1, wherein said tube is carried in a bearing relative to said rotary motion means. 4. The orbital dispenser of claim 1, further comprising means for varying the speed of said motor. 5. The orbital dispenser of claim 1, further comprising a flexible bellows, said bellows having a central aperture sealing said fluid tube and a periphery retained by said housing. 