This invention relates to methods for detecting and sequencing of target double-stranded nucleic acid sequences, to nucleic acid probes and arrays of probes useful in these methods, and to kits and systems which contain these probes. Useful methods involve hybridizing the nucleic acids or nucleic acids which represent complementary or homologous sequences of the target to an array of nucleic acid probes. These probe comprise a single-stranded portion, an optional double-stranded portion and a variable sequence within the single-stranded portion. The molecular weights of the hybridized nucleic acids of the set can be determined by mass spectroscopy, and the sequence of the target determined from the molecular weights of the fragments. Nucleic acids whose sequences can be determined include nucleic acids in biological samples such as patient biopsies and environmental samples. Probes may be fixed to a solid support such as a hybridization chip to facilitate automated determination of molecular weights and identification of the target sequence.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for sequencing a target nucleic acid comprising the steps of: a) providing a set of partially single-stranded nucleic acid fragments, wherein each fragment contains a sequence that corresponds to a sequence of the target; b) hybridizing the single-stranded portions of the fragments to single-stranded portions of a set of partially double-stranded nucleic acid probes to form a set of complexes, and for each complex; i) ligating a single strand of the fragment to an adjacent single strand of the probe; and ii) extending the unligated strand of the complex by strand-displacement polymerization using the ligated strand as a template; and c) determining the sequence of the target. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the target is between about 10 to about 1,000 nucleotides in length. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the set of partially single-stranded fragments is a product of a polymerase chain reaction or an endonuclease digestion. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein each set of nucleic acids comprises greater than about 10.sup.4 different members. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the single-stranded portion of each probe contains a variable sequence. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the fragments or the probes are attached to a solid support. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the nucleic acids are DNA, RNA, PNA or modifications or combinations thereof. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the fragments or the probes are dephosphorylated by treatment with a phosphatase prior to hybridization. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein each probe is between about 10 to about 50 nucleotides in length. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the double-stranded regions of the probes contain the same sequence for each probe of the set. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein polymerization incorporates mass-modifying nucleotides into the extended strand. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein polymerization incorporates dNTPs and ddNTPs into the extended strand. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein a plurality of extended strands comprise a nested set. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein a plurality of extended strands comprise about 0.1 femtomole to about 1.0 nanomole of nucleic acid. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the sequence is determined by polyacrylamide electrophoresis, capillary electrophoresis or mass spectrometry. 16. A method for sequencing a target nucleic acid comprising the steps of: a) providing a set of partially single-stranded nucleic acid fragments, wherein each fragment contains a sequence that corresponds to a sequence of the target; b) hybridizing the single-stranded portions of the fragments to single-stranded portions of a set of partially double-stranded nucleic acid probes to form a set of complexes, and for each complex; i) ligating a single strand of the fragment to an adjacent single strand of the probe; and ii) extending the unligated strand of the complex by strand-displacement polymerization using the ligated strand as a template and mass-modifying the extended strand; c) determining the molecular weights of the extended strands; and d) determining the sequence of the target from the molecular weights of the extended strands. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the extended strand contains mass-modifying functionalities. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein at least one mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a heterocyclic base. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein at least one mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a sugar moiety. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein at least one mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a phosphate group. 21. The method of claim 17 wherein the mass-modifying functionality is a chemical moiety that does not interfere with hydrogen bonding for base-pair formation. 22. The method of claim 17 wherein the mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a purine at position C2, N3, N7 or C8, or a deazapurine at position N7 or N9. 23. The method of claim 17 wherein the mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a pyrimidine at position C5 or C6. 24. The method of claim 17, wherein; the mass-modifying functionality is selected from the group consisting of deuterium, F, Cl, Br, I, SiR.sub.3, Si(CH.sub.3).sub.3, Si(CH.sub.3).sub.2 (C.sub.2 H.sub.5), Si(CH.sub.3)(C.sub.2 H.sub.5).sub.2, Si(C.sub.2 H.sub.5).sub.3, (CH.sub.2).sub.n CH.sub.3, (CH.sub.2).sub.n NR.sub.2, CH.sub.2 CONR.sub.2, (CH.sub.2).sub.n OH, CH.sub.2 F, CHF.sub.2, and CF.sub.3 ; n is an integer; and R is selected from the group consisting of --H, deuterium and alkyls, alkoxys and aryls of 1-6 carbon atoms, polyoxymethylene, monoalkylated polyoxymethylene, polyethylene imine, polyamide, polyester, alkylated silyl, heterooligo/polyaminoacid and polyethylene glycol. 25. The method of claim 17, wherein; the mass-modifying functionality is --N.sub.3 or --XR: X is selected from the group consisting of --O--, --NH--, --NR--, --S--, --NHC(S)--, --OCO(CH.sub.2).sub.n COO--, --NHCO(CH.sub.2).sub.n COO--, --OSO.sub.2 O--, --OCO(CH.sub.2).sub.n --, --NHC(S)NH--, --OCO(CH.sub.2).sub.n S--, --OCO(CH.sub.2)S--, --NC.sub.4 O.sub.2 H.sub.2 S--, --OPO(O-alkyl)--, and OP(O-alkyl)--; n is an integer from 1 to 20; and R is selected from the group consisting of --H, deuterium and alkyls, alkoxys and aryls of 1-6 carbon atoms, polyoxymethylene, monoalkylated polyoxymethylene, polyethylene imine, polyamide, polyester, alkylated silyl, heterooligo/polyaminoacid and polyethylene glycol. 26. The method of claim 16 wherein the extended strand is mass-modified by thiolation. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein thiolation is performed by treating said extended strand with a Beaucage reagent. 28. The method of claim 16 wherein the extended strand is mass-modified by alkylation. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein alklyation is performed by treating said extended strand with iodoacetamide. 30. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of removing alkali cations from said mass-modified extended strand. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein alkali cations are removed by ion exchange. 32. A method for sequencing a target nucleic acid comprising the steps of: a) providing a set of partially single-stranded nucleic acid fragments wherein each fragment contains a sequence that corresponds to a sequence of the target; b) hybridizing the single-stranded portions of the fragments to single-stranded portions of a set of partially double-stranded nucleic acid probes to form a set of complexes wherein each probe contains a variable sequence within the single-stranded region, and for each complex; i) ligating a single strand of the fragment to an adjacent single strand of the probe; and ii) extending the unligated strand of the complex by strand-displacement polymerization using the ligated strand as a template; c) determining the molecular weights of the extended strands; and d) determining the sequence of the target from the molecular weights of the extended strands. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein one set of nucleic acids is attached to a solid support. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein the solid support is selected from the group consisting of plates, beads, microbeads, whiskers, combs, hybridization chips, membranes, single crystals, ceramics and self-assembling monolayers. 35. The method of claim 33 wherein the probes are conjugated with biotin or a biotin derivative and the solid support is conjugated with avidin, streptavidin or a derivative thereof. 36. The method of claim 33 further comprising a spacer between the array and the solid support. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein the spacer is selected from the group consisting of oligopeptides, oligonucleotides, oligopolyamides, oligoethyleneglycerol, oligoacrylamides, alkyl chains of between about 6 to about 20 carbon atoms, and combinations thereof. 38. The method of claim 33 wherein the attachment is a cleavable attachment. 39. The method of claim 38 wherein the cleavable attachment is cleavable by heat, an enzyme, a chemical agent or electromagnetic radiation. 40. The method of claim 16, wherein the molecular weights of the extended strands are determined by mass spectrometry. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein the mass spectrometry includes fast atom bombardment, plasma desorption, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization, electrospray, photochemical release, electrical release, droplet release, resonance ionization or a combination thereof. 42. The method of claim 40, wherein the mass spectrometry format includes time of flight with reflection, time of flight without reflection, electrospray, Fourier transform, ion trap, resonance ionization, ion cyclotron resonance or a combination thereof. 43. The method of claim 40, wherein the molecular weights of two or more extended strands are determined simultaneously. 44. The method of claim 32, wherein the molecular weights of the extended strands are determined by mass spectrometry. 45. The method of claim 44, wherein the mass spectrometry includes fast atom bombardment, plasma desorption, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization, electrospray, photochemical release, electrical release, droplet release, resonance ionization or a combination thereof. 46. The method of claim 44, wherein the mass spectrometry includes time of flight with reflection, time of flight without reflection, electrospray, Fourier transform, ion trap, resonance ionization, ion cyclotron resonance or a combination thereof. 47. The method of claim 44, wherein the molecular weights of two or more extended strands are determined simultaneously. 