A method is disclosed for characterizing non-biological polymers using liquid chromatography that is particularly useful in polymer research programs. The method includes the steps of providing a library of four or more non-biological polymer samples, with each of the four or more polymer samples being polymerization product mixtures that result from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to a factor affecting polymerization. Each of the four or more polymer samples resides in the reaction vessel in which they were formed. The method further includes sampling first and second polymer samples from the reaction vessels in which they were formed, supplying a mobile phase in parallel through each of a first chromatographic column and a second chromatographic column of a liquid chromatography system, injecting the first and second polymer samples into the mobile phase of the first and second chromatographic columns, respectively, simultaneously separating at least one sample component of the injected first and second samples from other sample components thereof in the respective chromatographic columns, and detecting a property of at least one of the separated sample components of each of the first and second samples.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for characterizing non-biological polymers using liquid chromatography, the method comprising providing a library comprising four or more non-biological polymer samples, each of the four or more polymer samples being polymerization product mixtures, resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to a factor affecting polymerization, each of the four or more polymer samples residing in a reaction vessel in which they were formed, sampling first and second polymer samples from the reaction vessels in which they were formed, supplying a mobile phase in parallel through each of a first chromatographic column and a second chromatographic column of a liquid chromatography system, injecting the first and second polymer samples into the mobile phase of the first and second chromatographic columns, respectively, simultaneously separating at least one sample component of the injected first and second samples from other sample components thereof in the respective chromatographic columns, and detecting a property of at least one of the separated sample components of each of the first and second samples. 2. The method of claim 1 herein the reaction vessels are formed in a common substrate. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction vessels are supported on a common substrate. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction vessels are glass-lined reaction vessels. 5. A method for characterizing non-biological polymers using liquid chromatography, the method comprising providing a library comprising four or more non-biological polymer samples, each of the four or more polymer samples being polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to a factor affecting polymerization, the four or more polymer samples residing in sample containers formed in or supported on a common substrate, sampling first and second polymer samples from the sample containers in which they reside, supplying a mobile phase in parallel through each of a first chromatographic column and a second chromatographic column of a liquid chromatography system, injecting the first and second polymer samples into the mobile phase of the first and second chromatographic columns, respectively, simultaneously separating at least one sample component of the injected first and second samples from other sample components thereof in the respective chromatographic columns, and detecting a property of at least one of the separated sample components of each of the first and second samples. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the sample containers are glass-lined reaction vessels. 7. The method of claims 1 or 5 wherein the library comprises twenty or more polymer samples and at least about 50% of the polymer samples included in the library are different from each other. 8. The method of claims 1 or 5 wherein the library comprises twenty or more polymer samples and at least 75% of the polymer samples included in the library are different from each other. 9. The method of claims 1 or 5 wherein the library comprises twenty or more polymer samples and at least 90% of the polymer samples included in the library are different from each other. 10. The method of claims 1 or 5 wherein the four or more polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reactant materials, catalysts, catalyst precursors, initiators, additives or the relative amounts thereof. 11. The method of claims 1 or 5 wherein the four or more polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reaction conditions. 12. The method of claims 1 or 5 wherein the plurality of polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from synthesis in a parallel polymerization reaction. 13. The method of claims 1 or 5 wherein the plurality of polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures that are pretreated with one or more steps selected from the group consisting of nonchromatographic separation, dilution, mixing, and redissolution. 14. The method of claims 1 or 5 wherein the liquid chromatography system comprises one or more pumps for providing flow of a mobile phase from one or more mobile-phase fluid sources to each of the first and second chromatographic columns, one or more injection ports, optionally one or more injection valves, and one or more flow-through detectors, the one or more injection ports and optional one or more injection valves being adaptable for fluid communication with the mobile phase for injecting the polymer samples into the mobile phase, the flow-through detector being adapted to detect a property of the polymer samples or a component thereof. 15. The method of claims 1 or 5 wherein the first and second polymer samples are simultaneously sampled from the reaction vessels in which they reside. 16. The method of claims 1 or 5 wherein the first and second polymer samples are simultaneously injected into the mobile phase of the first and second chromatographic columns, respectively. 17. The method of claims 1 or 5 wherein the property of at least one of the separated sample components is simultaneously detected for each of the first and second samples. 18. The method of claims 1 or 5 wherein the plurality of polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures that are untreated. 19. A method for characterizing non-biological polymers using liquid chromatography, the method comprising providing a library comprising ten or more non-biological polymer samples, each of the ten or more polymer samples (i) being polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reaction conditions, reactant materials, catalysts, catalyst precursors, initiators, additives, or relative amounts thereof, and (ii) residing in a reaction vessel in which they were formed, the reaction vessel being a glass-lined reaction vessel formed in or supported on a common substrate, simultaneously sampling first and second polymer samples from the reaction vessels in which they were formed, supplying a mobile phase in parallel through each of a first chromatographic column and a second chromatographic column of a liquid chromatography system, simultaneously injecting the first and second polymer samples into the mobile phase of the first and second chromatographic columns, respectively, simultaneously separating at least one sample component of the injected first and second samples from other sample components thereof in the respective chromatographic columns, and simultaneously detecting a property of at least one of the separated sample components of each of the first and second samples. 20. The method of claims 1, 5 or 19 wherein the first chromatographic column and the second chromatographic column each have an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.1 to about 1. 21. The method of claims 1, 5 or 19 wherein separating at least one sample component of the injected first and second samples from other sample components thereof includes, for each of the first and second samples: separating a low molecular-weight fraction of the injected sample from a high molecular-weight fraction thereof, and passing the high molecular-weight fraction of the injected sample through the chromatographic column without substantial separation thereof. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the low molecular-weight fraction comprises sample components having a molecular weight of not more than about 1000, and the high molecular-weight fraction comprises sample components having a molecular weight of more than about 1000. 23. The method of claims 1, 5 or 19 wherein the first chromatographic column and the second chromatographic column each have an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.1 to about 1, and wherein separating at least one sample component of the injected first and second samples from other sample components thereof includes, for each of the first and second samples: separating a low molecular-weight fraction of the injected sample from a high molecular-weight fraction thereof, and passing the high molecular-weight fraction of the injected sample through the chromatographic column without substantial separation thereof. 24. The method of claims 1, 5 or 19 wherein the property of at least one of the separated sample components of each of the first and second samples is detected with a light-scattering detector. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the property is detected with a static light-scattering detector. 26. The method of claim 24 wherein the property is detected with a dynamic light-scattering detector. 27. The method of claim 24 wherein the property is detected with a combination of detectors comprising a static light-scattering detector and a mass detector. 28. The method of claims 1, 5 or 19 wherein the first chromatographic column and the second chromatographic column each have an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.1 to about 1, and wherein the property of at least one of the separated sample components of each of the first and second samples is detected with a combination of detectors comprising a static light-scattering detector and a mass detector. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein separating at least one sample component of the injected first and second samples from other sample components thereof includes, for each of the first and second samples: separating a low molecular-weight fraction of the injected sample from a high molecular-weight fraction thereof, and passing the high molecular-weight fraction of the injected sample through the chromatographic column without substantial separation thereof. 30. The method of claim 28 wherein the mass detector is a refractive index detector or an evaporative light-scattering detector. 