A method and apparatus for providing power to an electrostatic device includes a monitor and control system that prevents inadvertent and damaging electrical arcing. When the electrostatic device is first energized, voltage is gradually increased and the flow of electrical current is closely monitored. In the event the device is too close to ground or a grounded object, current flow exceeds a predetermined threshold and power is disconnected from the electrostatic device. Later, as the device voltage is increased to operating voltage, electrical current delivered to the electrostatic device is monitored for excessive current and excessive rate of change. If either fault condition is detected, power supply voltage may be reduced or disconnected, depending upon the severity of the fault. A microprocessor control system is illustrated for implementing the invention, including hardware and various software algorithms that provide the requisite gathering of information, analysis and responsive actions.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for preventing arcs or destructive fault conditions from damaging an electrostatic device, comprising the steps of: providing power to said electrostatic device for high voltage applications, including a current component of said high voltage; establishing predetermined limits for a rate of change of said current component; generating a timing interrupt signal at a predetermined time interval; measuring said current component responsive to said timing interrupt signal; calculating a rate of change of said current with respect to time and determining whether said calculated rate of change of current is outside of said predetermined rate of change limits; and reducing and still providing said power to said electrostatic device if said calculated rate of change of current is outside of said predetermined limits. 2. The method for preventing arcs or destructive fault conditions of claim 1 further comprising the additional steps of: establishing predetermined limits for a voltage component of said power and for a current component of said power; measuring a voltage delivered to said electrostatic device responsive to said timing interrupt signal and producing a signal indicating a magnitude of said voltage; determining whether said signal indicating voltage magnitude is outside of said predetermined voltage limits; determining whether said signal indicating current magnitude is outside of said predetermined current limits; and discontinuing providing said power to said electrostatic device if said voltage magnitude is outside of said predetermined limits or if said current magnitude is outside of said predetermined limits. 3. The method for preventing arcs or destructive fault conditions of claim 2 further comprising the additional steps of: storing a count representative of a target magnitude for said voltage component; and incrementing said count to initiate an increase in magnitude of said voltage component, and decrementing said count to initiate a decrease in magnitude of said voltage component. 4. The method for preventing arcs or destructive fault conditions of claim 3 further comprising the additional steps of: setting fold-back ceilings for current and current slew rate; comparing said signal indicating current magnitude to said current ceiling setting and also comparing said calculated rate of change of current to said current slew rate ceiling setting; and decrementing said count responsive to said comparing step if either said signal indicating current magnitude exceeds said current ceiling or said calculated rate of change of current exceeds said current slew rate ceiling. 5. The method for preventing arcs or destructive fault conditions of claim 3 further comprising the additional steps of: subtracting said signal indicating a magnitude of said voltage from said target magnitude for said voltage component to produce a voltage difference; evaluating whether said voltage difference is greater than a damping factor of said electrostatic device or less than a negative of said damping factor; and incrementing or decrementing said count responsive to said evaluating step. 6. The method for preventing arcs or destructive fault conditions of claim 1, further comprising the additional steps of: providing voltage of a magnitude less than necessary for operation to said electrostatic device upon starting said device; measuring said current component; and discontinuing said providing of power to said electrostatic device if said current component exceeds a proximity threshold. 7. The method for preventing arcs or destructive fault conditions of claim 1, further comprising the additional steps of: disconnecting a variable voltage power supply output from said electrostatic device; applying diverse control inputs to said variable voltage power supply; measuring a voltage output from said variable voltage power supply responsive to said diverse control inputs; and preventing said providing of power to said electrostatic device if said variable voltage power supply voltage output is inappropriate responsive to said diverse control inputs. 8. A power source for an electrostatic sprayer used to electrostatically spray a coating onto a substrate wherein said coating is attracted to said substrate by strong electrostatic forces and which produces an improved coating with reduced over-spray and which is further protected from undesirable electrical arcing and electrical faults, comprising: a high electrostatic voltage output; a voltage multiplier for converting a low voltage into said high electrostatic voltage output; a low-voltage variable power supply which provides a low voltage to said voltage multiplier and which includes a control input; a fault relay for alternatively connecting and disconnecting said low voltage from said voltage multiplier; a current sensor providing a signal representing an amount of current flowing through said high electrostatic voltage output; a voltage sensor providing a signal representing a magnitude of said low voltage; stored acceptable values for said current signal and said voltage signal; a microprocessor subsystem including hardware and software algorithms for providing a control signal to said control input responsive to fault indications of said current signal and said voltage signal from said established values to restore said current signal and said voltage signal to said stored acceptable values; and means for electrically isolating said microprocessor subsystem from said high electrostatic voltage output and said low voltage variable power supply; whereby said microprocessor subsystem is able to safely maintain said high voltage electrostatic output operatively energized through said fault indications. 9. The power source of claim 8 wherein said microprocessor system calculates a current slew rate from said current signal, compares said current slew rate to a stored fold-back ceiling to provide a slew rate fold-back result, and adjusts said control signal responsive to said slew rate fold-back result. 10. The power source of claim 8 wherein said microprocessor system compares said current signal to a stored fold-back ceiling to provide a current fold-back result, and adjusts said control signal responsive to said current fold-back result. 11. The power source of claim 8 wherein said electrical isolating means further comprises distinct transformer windings, opto-isolators, relays and separate electrical grounding, whereby static discharge across a ground plane electrically connected to said high electrostatic voltage output is prevented from disrupting said microprocessor subsystem. 12. An apparatus for controlling power supplied to a high-voltage, low current output electrostatic device which provides fault detection and arc prevention, and which is adapted to varying environmental conditions and various applications, comprising: a means for sensing a magnitude of said high-voltage, low current output from said electrostatic device and providing an output indication of said high-voltage, low current magnitude; a means for discerning a status of an electrical condition that is indicative of a fault initiating event having as an input said output indication of said high voltage, low current magnitude and generating responsive thereto a discerning output signal representing said status of said electrical condition indicative of a fault initiating event; and a variable power supply having a control input responsive to said discerning output signal and producing an output which varies responsive to said control input to mitigate said fault initiating event while still outputting power; said high-voltage, low current output operative and simultaneously responsive to said variable power supply output; whereby, when said discerning output signal indicates said fault initiating event, said variable power supply adjusts said variable power supply output responsive thereto, thereby adjusting said high-voltage, low current output to mitigate said fault initiating event and thereby actively avoid arcs and other damaging fault conditions during continuous operation of said electrostatic device. 13. The apparatus for controlling power supplied to an electrostatic device of claim 12 further comprising a means for measuring a magnitude of said variable voltage output and providing an output representative of said magnitude. 14. The apparatus for controlling power supplied to an electrostatic device of claim 13 wherein said discerning means comprises a microprocessor system having hardware, programs and control parameters, and which generates said discerning output signal responsive to said measuring means output, said sensing means output indication, said control parameters, and said programming. 15. The apparatus for controlling power supplied to an electrostatic device of claim 14 further comprising a user interface for entering said control parameters and receiving status indication. 16. The apparatus for controlling power supplied to an electrostatic device of claim 14 wherein said microprocessor system further comprises a means for testing said high voltage, low current output electrostatic device in combination with said power controlling apparatus at a sub-operational power level. 17. The apparatus for controlling power supplied to an electrostatic device of claim 14 further comprising a reset controller having a reset input from a user interface, a reset output to said microprocessor system for resetting said microprocessor system, and a watchdog circuit receiving input from a decoder for resetting said microprocessor system in the event said microprocessor system becomes trapped in an indefinite loop or otherwise freezes. 18. The apparatus for controlling power supplied to an electrostatic device of claim 12 further comprising: a fault relay between said variable power supply output and said high-voltage, low current output electrostatic device having a fault relay control input which, when activated, electrically passes said variable power supply output to said high-voltage, low current output electrostatic device and, when de-activated, electrically isolates said variable power supply output from said high-voltage, low current electrostatic device; a means for testing said variable power supply output response to said discerning output signal when said fault relay is de-activated; and a means for de-activating said fault relay from the start of application of power to said apparatus during system start-up until after said testing means tests said variable power supply. 19. The apparatus for controlling power supplied to an electrostatic device of claim 12 further comprising means for electrically isolating said discerning means from said variable power supply. 20. The apparatus for controlling power supplied to an electrostatic device of claim 19 wherein said means for electrically isolating comprises an opto-isolator. 21. The apparatus for controlling power supplied to an electrostatic device of claim 12 wherein said discerning output signal is a digital word. 22. A method for preventing arcs or destructive fault conditions from damaging an electrostatic device powered by a variable power supply, comprising the steps of: establishing predetermined limits for parameters of said variable power supply sensed responsive to selected controls input to said variable power supply; disconnecting said variable power supply from said electrostatic device for high voltage applications; inputting said selected controls to said variable power supply subsequent to said disconnecting step; sensing said parameters of said variable power supply responsive to said inputting step to yield sensed parameters results; comparing said sensed parameters results to said predetermined limits to produce a comparing result indicative of whether said sensed parameters results are outside of said predetermined limits; and disabling said electrostatic device if said comparing results are indicative of said sensed parameters results being outside of said predetermined limits. 23. A method for preventing arcs or destructive fault conditions from damaging an electrostatic device, comprising the steps of: establishing predetermined limits for parameters of said electrostatic device sensed responsive to selected controls input to a variable power supply; disconnecting said variable power supply from said electrostatic device; inputting said selected controls to said variable power supply subsequent to said disconnecting step to generate a sub-operational voltage; connecting said sub-operational voltage from said variable power supply to said electrostatic device subsequent to said inputting step; sensing said parameters of said electrostatic device responsive to said connecting step to yield sensed parameters results; comparing said sensed parameters results to said predetermined limits to produce a comparing result indicative of whether said sensed parameters results are outside of said predetermined limits; and disabling said electrostatic device if said comparing results are indicative of said sensed parameters results being outside of said predetermined limits. 24. An apparatus for controlling power supplied to a high-voltage, low current output electrostatic device which provides fault detection and arc prevention, and which is adapted to varying environmental conditions and various applications, comprising: a means for sensing a magnitude of said high-voltage, low current output from said electrostatic device and providing an output indication of said high-voltage, low current magnitude; a means for discerning a status of an electrical condition that is indicative of a fault initiating event having as an input said output indication of said high voltage, low current magnitude and generating responsive thereto a discerning output signal representing said status of said electrical condition indicative of a fault initiating event; and a means for electrically isolating said discerning means from said high-voltage, low current output electrostatic device wherein said isolation means prevents ground noise and electrostatic discharges generated within the electrical circuit of said high-voltage, low current output electrostatic device from disrupting said discerning means. 