An object is scanned first with a light plane from a variable-intensity light-plane projector, and the reflected light is used as signals to modify point by point the output of the projector in accordance with the intensity of the respective reflective-light signal. Thereupon the object is scanned a second time and the projector is instructed to apply less light than before to those points of the object from which a strong reflected-light signal was received during the first scan, and/or to apply more light to points from which a weak reflected-light signal was received during the first scan. In similar manner, a projected intensity encoded light volume is projected on an object and the reflected light is used as signals to point-by-point modify the output of the projector for subsequent projections.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting three-dimensional information, comprising the steps of: projecting a variable-intensity plane of light onto an object to be scanned; effecting a first scan by causing relative movement between said object and said plane of light; receiving light-intensity signals from said object from said plane of light; applying a second scan by causing relative movement between said object and said plane of light; and modifying the light-plane intensity during the second scan; increasing the light-plane intensity during the second scan at such points where the signal was weak during the first scan; and reducing the light-plane intensity during the second scan at such points where the signal was strong during the first scan. 2. In an arrangement for detecting three-dimensional information, a combination comprising: means for projecting a variable-intensity plane of light onto an object to be scanned; means for receiving light-intensity signals back from the object from said plane of light during a first scanning of said object; means for increasing the light-plane intensity during the second scan at such points of the object where the signal was weak during the first scan; and means for reducing the light-plane intensity during the second scan at such points where the signal was strong during the first scan. 3. A combination as defined in claim 2, wherein said projection means comprises a variable light-intensity light plane projector. 4. A combination as defined in claim 3, wherein said receiving means comprises a camera; said increasing means and said reducing means comprising a control logic means connected between said camera and said projector. 5. A combination as defined in claim 2, wherein said receiving means comprises a camera. 6. A combination as defined in claim 2, wherein said increasing means and said reducing means comprises control logic means. 7. A method of detecting three-dimensional information, comprising the steps of: projecting a first set of intensity encoded volumes of light onto an object to be measured; receiving light intensity signals from the object; projecting a second set of intensity encoded volumes of light; reducing the light volume intensities during the second projection at such points on the object where the signals were strong beyond a predetermined level during the first projection; and increasing the light volume intensities during the second projection at such points on the object where the signals were weak below a predetermined level during the first projection. 8. In an arrangement for detecting three-dimensional information, according to claim 7, a combination comprising: means for projecting intensity encoded volumes of light onto an object to be measured; means for receiving during a first projection upon the object, light intensity signals back from the object; means for reducing the intensities within each projected light volume during a subsequent second projection at such points on the object where the signal was strong beyond a predetermined level during the first projection, and for increasing the light intensity during the second projection at such points on the object where the signal was weak below a predetermined level during the first projection. 9. A combination as defined in claim 8, wherein said projection means comprises a variable light intensity, encoded light volume projector. 10. A combination as defined in claim 9, wherein said receiving means comprises a camera; and said modifying means comprises control logic means connected between said camera and said projector. 11. A combination as defined in claim 9, and a single 1ight modulator for providing both the variable light intensity and light volume encoding functions. 