A robotic tool for mounting an edge connector on a mother board, and mounting a daughter board to the edge connector. The mother and daughter boards are of the printed circuit board type, with the edge connector including a plurality of terminals mounted in a socket for receiving an edge of the daughter board at a first angle, and for electrically mating with the edge of the daughter board when the daughter board is rotated to a second angle. The tool includes a programmable robotic arm selectively moveable to a predetermined position on the mother board, and having a free end with a pair of end portions moveable toward and away from each other. A pair of jaws are mounted to the end portions, for movement therewith. The jaws have first outwardly extending connector engaging portions and second inwardly opening daughter board-receiving recesses. The same jaws are used to mount the edge connector to the mother board, and to insert and rotate the daughter board for mating and locking with the edge connector.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic tool for mounting an edge connector to a predetermined location on a mother board, and mounting a daughter board to said edge connector, said edge connector including a plurality of terminals, each having a board engaging portion mounted in a socket which receives an edge of the daughter board which is inserted at a first angle and is rotated to a second angle to lock said daughter board to said edge connector so that the board engaging portion of the terminals are electrically mated with said daughter board, said tool including a programmable robotic arm selectively moveable to said predetermined position on the mother board and having a free end with a pair of end portions selectively moveable toward and away from each other, the tool comprising: a pair of jaws moveable toward and away from each other; means for mounting the jaws to the robotic end portions, for movement therewith; said jaws having outwardly extending connector engaging portions for selectively engaging the edge connector while said arm is moved to a predetermined position adjacent said mother board and advanced theretoward, whereby the connector is mounted on the mother board; and said jaws further having opposed inwardly opening pocket-like recesses for receiving, engaging, and supporting said daughter board while said arm is moved to approximately the same predetermined position adjacent said mother board, advanced toward the connector socket at said first angle, and rotated to said second angle, whereby the daughter board is inserted in said connector socket and rotated to said second angle to establish electrical contact between the daughter board and the connector. 2. The tool of claim 1 wherein the edge connector has a tool receiving slot, and the board engaging recesses of said jaws are located above the connector engaging portions, to allow insertion thereof in said connector slot. 