Disclosed is a shielded receptacle assembly mateable with a plug connector having an external metallic shield. The connector assembly includes an insulating receptacle housing having a mating edge with a plug-receiving cavity extending into the housing from the mating edge. An end wall opposes the mating edge and a plurality of sidewalls are joined with the end wall to define plug receiving cavity. Housing terminals are mounted in the receptacle housing for mating with corresponding plug terminals. An integral stamped metallic conductive shield is mounted on the outside of the receptacle housing, and includes reversely bent shield engaging cantilever fingers for mating with the external plug shield. The housing includes outwardly projecting shield mounting studs electrically formed on two opposing sidewalls. Slots formed in corresponding shield sidewalls slidingly receive and engage the studs during assembly of the shield and housing members. Accurate alignment between the shield and housing is provided, while preventing outward bowing of the shield away from the housing sidewalls both before and after mating with a plug assembly.
Claims I claim: 1. A shielded connector assembly mateable with a plug connector having an external metallic shield, said connector assembly including: an insulating receptacle housing having a mating edge with a plug-receiving cavity extending into the housing from the mating edge, an endwall opposite the mating edge and a plurality of sidewalls joining said endwall to define said plug receiving cavity, first terminals mounted in the receptacle housing for mating contact with corresponding plug terminals, a stamped metallic conductive shield mounted on the outside of said receptacle housing having resilient reversely-bent plug shield engaging cantilever finger members extending from said mating edge to said plug receiving cavity, the improvement wherein: said receptacle housing further includes at least three sidewalls with projecting shield mounting stud means integrally formed on at least two of said sidewalls and with one intermediate sidewall located between said at least two sidewalls and overlying said finger members and extending to said mating edge; said shield has at least three sidewalls adapted for slideable mounting about said receptacle housing so as to enclose at least three of said housing sidewalls; at least two of said shield side walls including slot means for slideably receiving and engaging said stud therein; whereby the shield is securely held onto the housing so as to maintain the finger members in a fixed relationship to said mating edge of said receptacle housing and to said first terminals, before and after plug insertion in said cavity; wherein said first terminals include board engaging portions extending in a predetermined direction to engage mounting apertures of a printed circuit board; said shield further includes board engaging portions depending from said sidewalls in said predetermined direction to engage other mounting apertures of said printed circuit board; and said shield further includes a substantially open end for slideably receiving said housing, said slot means extending from said open end, and said shield further including strap means straddling said slot means adjacent said open housing end to maintain a predetermined alignment between said board engaging portions of said receptacle terminal and said shield. 2. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said strap comprises a reversely bent bight portion of said sidewalls adjacent said housing receiving end. 3. The assembly of claim 2 wherein said strap bight defines a slot-like opening for receiving said stud means during securement of said shield to said housing. 4. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said stud means and said slot means are elongated in the direction of insertion of said receptacle housing within said shield, to prevent misalignment of said shield with respect to said housing in a second, normal direction. 5. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said shield further includes a strengthening rib extending along said housing receiving end of said top wall. 6. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said slot means includes barb-like housing engaging teeth formed on said shield for biting engagement with said stud means as said shield is secured to said housing. 7. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said intermediate housing sidewall includes a plurality of spaced-apart channel-like recesses extending from said mating edge, for receiving said cantilever fingers during deflection thereof in response to insertion of a plug in said cavity; and said slot means include stop surfaces for engaging said stud means to limit insertion of said housing in said shield so as to maintain a predetermined spaced relation between said cantilever fingers and said mating edge of said intermediate housing sidewall, whereby deflection of said cantilever fingers toward said first terminals during shield mounting is prevented, and outward bowing of said shield is controlled in a predetermined manner during insertion of said plug in said cavity. 