The present invention relates to industrial systems, and more particularly to a flexible industrial system with quick change part holding means which can be used to perform many different operations on a wide variety of parts. The embodiment disclosed shows such a flexible industrial system adapted to test many different types of parts using a single piece of test equipment by virtue of having a series of identical pallets for each type of part to be tested which can be quickly on-loaded and offloaded from a means of providing movement between a plurality of stations, such as a rotary index table. By providing that each in a series of part holding means has means to connect the part holding means to the means of providing movement between stations, means to perform desired operations on parts on the part holding means, and means to quickly connect to said means to perform desired operations, a tremendously flexible test system is provided.
Claims We claim: 1. A flexible industrial system having a plurality of stations for performing operation on parts, including, in combination: (a) a means to operate said system; (b) a means of providing movement between said stations, said means to provide movement connected to said means to operate; (c) part holding means easily connectible to said means for providing movement; (d) means to perform desired operations on said parts mounted on said part holding means and including means to clamp and/or seal a part on said part holding means, wherein said means to clamp and seal include (1) a first clamp and seal means fixedly mounted to said palate and connected to said means to connect; (2) a second clamp and seal means fixedly mounted to said palate and connected to said means to connect; (3) a clamp means fixedly mounted to said palate and connected to said means to connect; and (4) seal means mounted to said palate and connected to said means to connect, (e) means to connect to said means to perform said desired operations, said means to connect connected to said means to operate; (f) storage means for said part holding means when not in use; (g) means to transfer said part holding means between said storage means and said means for providing movement between said stations, said means to transfer connected to said means to operate, (h) leak test means connected to said means to operate, and to the interior of said part through said means to connect; and (i) means mounted to said part holding means to supply air to the parts to be tested, said means to supply connected to said means to connect. 2. The system defined in claim 1, wherein said means to supply air to said test part include: (a) a sealing head having a passageway communicating with the interior of a part to be sealed by said seal means mounted to said seal means; (b) a means to introduce air into the interior of said second clamp and seal means; and (c) a conduit connecting each of said sealing head passageway and said means to supply air to the interior of said second clamp and seal means to connectors forming a part of said means to connect. 3. The system defined in claim 2, and including means to fill and balance a part with air. 4. The device defined in claim 3, wherein said fill and balance means include: (a) at least one pressure regulator in one of said test stations connected to a source of air; and (b) a balance valve connected to said regulator and to said means to supply through said means to connect, said balance valve also being connected to said programmable controller. 5. The system defined in claim 4, wherein said means to fill and balance are in two of said stations. 6. The device defined in claim 5, wherein said means to fill and balance are in three of said test stations. 7. The system defined in claim 4, wherein said leak test means include: (a) a dual-channel leak test means connectable to said part through said means to connect in at least one of said test stations and to said programmable controller; and (b) a computer connected to said programmable controller and said leak test means. 8. The system defined in claim 7, and including an additional single-channel leak test means connectable to said part through said means to connect, said single-channel leak test means being connected to said computer and to said programmable controller. 9. The system defined in claim 8, and including a thumbwheel switch connected to said programmable controller on which the operator may enter a part style number. 10. The system defined in claim 9, wherein said single-channel leak test means and each of said dual-channel leak test means each include: (a) a test in progress light; (b) an accept light; (c) a fine leak reject light; and (d) a coarse and large leak reject light. 11. The system defined in claim 10, wherein at least one of said stations include: (a) a first clamp and seal air valve connected to an air source by a suitable conduit and connected to said programmable controller, said first clamp and seal air valve also connected to said means to connect; (b) a second clamp and seal air valve connected to said means to connect, an air source and said process controller; and (c) a seal air valve connected to said means to connect, an air source, and said process controller. 12. The system defined in claim 11, wherein said means to connect include: (a) a quick disconnect holder; (b) a female portion of a first clamp and seal quick disconnect mounted to said quick disconnect holder and connected to said first clamp and seal air valve; (c) a female portion of a second clamp and seal quick disconnect mounted to said quick disconnect holder and connected to said second clamp and seal air valve; and (d) a female portion of a seal quick disconnect mounted to said quick disconnect holder and connected to said seal air valve. 13. The system defined in claim 12, wherein said means to connect further include: (a) a quick disconnect cylinder connected to said quick disconnect holder for reciprocating movement thereof; and (b) a quick disconnect air valve connected to said quick disconnect cylinder, a source of air, and said programmable controller. 14. The system defined in claim 13, wherein said means to connect further include an extend limit switch mounted in each station to be operated upon by said quick disconnect holder when the same is fully extended, thereby connecting said male and female portions of said quick disconnects, said extend limit switch connected to said programmable controller. 15. The system defined in claim 14, wherein said means to connect include a retract limit switch to be operated by said quick disconnect holder when the same is fully retracted, thus having separated said quick disconnects, said retract limit switch connected to said programmable controller. 16. The system defined in claim 15, wherein said means to provide movement between said stations include: (a) at least one manual pushbutton connected to said programmable controller to indicate when said means to provide movement are to be activated; and (b) a ready to index light connected to said programmable controller to indicate when a signal has been received from the retract limit switch mounted in each of said test stations. 17. The system defined in claim 16, and including means to automatically mark all rejected parts. 18. The system defined in claim 17, and including means to automatically unload test parts from said system. 