In a MIG arc welding system, a docking body having utilities passages therethrough is mountable at the welding station. Means are provided at one end of the body for accepting incoming utilities such as consumable wire electrode, shielding gas, welding potential and cooling water. Different types of welding gun or torch assemblies are interchangeably manually mountable and demountable at the other end of the welding body without disturbing the docking body or the utilities coupled thereto. Plug-type water fittings on the welding gun or torch assembly are receivable in receptacles in the docking body which communicate with the water passages, actuator tips on the fittings actuating normally-closed, spring-biased check valves in the passages to prevent leakage of water from the docking body when the welding gun or torch assembly is demounted. The gun or torch assembly is held in place by a coupling nut which is threadedly engaged with the docking body. There are provided a fixed-mount embodiment, wherein all utilities but the welding wire enter the docking body radially, and a remote or movable mount embodiment, suitable for mounting on a movable mechanized or robotic support, wherein all utilities enter the docking body axially. A positioning ring on the latter embodiment accurately positions the docking body on the movable support.
Claims I claim: 1. In an arc welding system including a welding torch at a welding station wherein the torch has an electrode and utilities inputs for receiving from associated delivery means utilities including at least welding voltage and arc shielding gas, a quick connect and disconnect docking assembly for readily mounting and demounting the torch comprising: a docking body disposed at the welding station and having an electrode passage and at least one other utilities passage therethrough, means electrically and mechanically connecting said docking body to the associated utilities delivery means and receiving the shielding gas into said at least one other utilities passage, first coupling means on said docking body, and second coupling means non-removably mounted on the welding torch and forming a permanent part thereof, said first and second coupling means being removably engageable with each other for mounting the welding torch on said docking body in a mounted condition and providing electrical connection therebetween with the electrode disposed in said electrode passage and with the utilities applied to the utilities inputs of the welding torch, said first and second coupling means being manually engageable and disengageable to permit mounting and demounting of the torch without the use of tools. 2. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said connecting means releasably connects said docking body to the associated utilities delivery means. 3. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said first coupling means includes an externally threaded portion on said docking body, a flange portion on the welding torch, and a nut threadedly engageably with said externally thread portion and cooperating with said docking body for clamping said flange portion therebetween. 4. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said docking body has a longitudinal axis, said connecting means extending substantially parallel to said axis. 5. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said docking body has a longitudinal axis, said connecting means including portions which extend substantially perpendicular to said axis. 6. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said first coupling means includes receptacle means communicating with selected ones of said passages, said second coupling means including plug-type fitting means receivable in said receptacle means. 7. The docking assembly of claim 6, wherein the utilities include cooling fluid and said docking body has plural ones of said other utilities passages therethrough, said receptacle means including two receptacles respectively communicating with two of said utilities passages, and said fitting means includes two plug-type fittings respectively receivable in said receptacles. 8. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said welding torch includes a curved welded gun and a welding nozzle removably mounted thereon. 9. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said welding torch includes a straight machine barrel and a nozzle removably mounted thereon. 10. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein the electrode comprises a consumable wire electrode delivered from the associated delivery means, said electrode being fed through said electrode passage. 11. In an arc welding system including a welding torch assembly disposed at a welding station and having utilities inputs for receiving from associated delivery means utilities such as welding voltage, arc shielding gas, consumable wire electrode and cooling fluid, a quick connect and disconnect docking assembly comprising: a docking body disposed at the welding station and having utilities passages therethrough, means connecting said docking body to the associated utilities delivery means and receiving into said passages the wire electrode and the fluid utilities, first coupling means on said docking body, second coupling means non-removably mounted on the welding torch assembly and forming a permanent part thereof, said first and second coupling means being removably engageable with each other for mounting the welding torch assembly on said docking body in a mounted condition and providing electrical connection therebetween with the utilities applied to the utilities inputs of the welding torch assembly, valve means disposed in said passages for movement between a normal closed condition preventing flow of cooling fluid therethrough and an open condition permitting flow of cooling fluid therethrough, bias means resiliently urging said valve means to the closed condition thereof, and actuator means carried by the welding torch assembly for actuating said valve means to the open condition thereof when said welding torch assembly is in the mounted condition thereof, whereby the welding torch assembly can readily be mounted and demounted at the welding station without affecting the utilities delivery means upstream of the welding station and without a significant loss of cooling fluid. 12. The docking assembly of claim 11, wherein said first coupling means includes receptacle means in said docking body communicating with selected ones of said passages, and said second coupling means includes plug-type fitting means receivable in said receptacle means. 13. The docking assembly of claim 12, wherein said valve means is disposed in said receptacle means, said actuator means being carried by said plug-type fitting means. 14. The docking assembly of claim 11, wherein said receptacle means includes two receptacles respectively communicating with two of said passages, said valve means includes two valves respectively disposed in said two passages, said second coupling means includes two plug-type fittings respectively receivable in said receptacles, and said actuator means includes two actuator members respectively carried by said fittings for actuating said two valves. 15. The docking assembly of claim 11, wherein said docking body is substantially cylindrical in shape, said passages including a passage for the consumable wire electrode extending axially of said docking body. 16. The docking assembly of claim 11, wherein said docking body is electrically connected to the source of welding voltage, said first and second coupling means including electrically conductive means providing electrical connection between said docking body and the welding torch assembly. 17. In an arc welding system including a welding torch assembly adapted to be carried by a movable support at a welding station and having utilities inputs for receiving from associated delivery means utilities such as welding voltage, arc shielding gas, consumable wire electrode and cooling fluid, a quick connect and disconnect docking assembly for readily mounting and demounting the torch with respect to the movable support comprising: a docking body having utilities passages therethrough, mounting means on the movable support for mounting said docking body thereon in a welding position, positioning means on said docking body engageable with said mounting means accurately to position said docking body in its welding position with respect to the movable support, means connecting said docking body to the associated utilities delivery means and receiving into said passages the wire electrodes and the fluid utilities, first coupling means on said docking body, and second coupling means non-removably mounted on the welding torch assembly and forming a permanent part thereof, said first and second coupling means being removably engageable with each other for mounting the welding torch assembly on said docking body in a mounted condition and providing electrical connection therebetween with the utilities applied to the utilities inputs of the welding torch assembly, whereby the welding torch assembly can readily be mounted and demounted at the movable support without affecting the utilities delivery means upstream of the movable support. 18. The docking assembly of claim 17, wherein said mounting means includes a socket or receptacle for removably receiving said docking body therein. 19. The docking assembly of claim 18, wherein said receptacle is circular in shape, said docking body being substantially in the form of a circular cylinder. 20. The docking assembly of claim 19, wherein said positioning means includes an annular ring fixedly secured to said docking body and extending radially outwardly therefrom for engagement with said mounting means to limit the depth of insertion of said docking body in said receptacle. 