Disclosed is an improved for dispensing solid members, such as electrical connectors, having extended rigid projections inserted in a penetrable flexible substrate sheet material. The apparatus for dispensing the solid members includes a rotatable drum having a solid surface. The sheet material containing the solid members is pulled across the drum surface by a frictional drive roller, thereby pulling the sheet material radially inwardly past the solid projections, creating a gap between the solid members and the sheet material. Wedge-like finger members are inserted in the gap, to complete removal of solid projections from the sheet material, thereby releasing the solid members for slideable movement along the finger members to a remote work station.
Claims We claim: 1. In an apparatus for sequentially disposing a plurality of solid members, one at a time, at a predetermined disposition relative to a work station comprising a substrate assembly, including a plurality of solid members removeably retained in a flexible sheet material, said solid members having extending rigid projections inserted into said flexible sheet material; a sheet material supporting means positioned adjacent said substrate assembly, said supporting means having a first solid portion disposed at said work station; and said substrate assembly disposed to overlie the sheet material supporting means to dispose a first solid member at a predetermined position on the support means; the improvement comprising: said sheet material supporting means comprising a support roller having a solid surface for supporting said sheet substrate assembly; means for at least partially separating said solid member from said flexible substrate to create a gap therebetween; and at least one wedge-like lifting member disposed adjacent said support roller surface and extending in the direction to said sheet material, said lifting member positioned ot lie adjacent said rigid projections, and having a free end for insertion in the gap between said sheet material and said solid members. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a plurality of lifting members is arranged adjacent said solid surface of said support roller such that said sheet material continues to engage said rigid projections after said lifting members are inserted betwen said sheet material and said solid members, to provide a pushing force for solid members along said lifting members. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said plurality of lifting members is positioned adjacent a predetermined portion of said solid roller surface such that, when said apparatus is placed in a gravitational field, said solid members slide along said lifting members under a graviational force, upon release of said rigid projections from said sheet material. 