Apparatus for the automated assembly of flowable materials into a receptacle for delivery to a selected location is disclosed. The apparatus includes a plurality of spaced flowable material dispensing means, a plurality of spaced receptacle storage means and a plurality of spaced receptacle delivery locations. A robot arm is provided to receive, support and transport the receptacles. The apparatus includes a computer adapted to cause the robot arm to select a receptacle at one of the receptacle storage means, transport it to more than one of the flowable material dispensing means in a predetermined sequence and deliver the receptacle with the assembly of flowable materials therein to a predetermined one of the receptacle delivery locations in response to a given computer command signal. Structural details of the robot arm and an embodiment of the apparatus specifically adapted to provide an automated bartender function are described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for the automated assembly of flowable materials into a receptacle and delivery to a selected location comprising: (a) an elongated substantially rectilinear arm of given length having a given axis of elongation; (b) receptacle receiving and support means mounted on one end of said arm for rotation about a first axis extending transversely of said axis of elongation of said arm; (c) shoulder means having the other end of said elongated arm mounted thereon for rotation about a second axis extending substantially parallel to said first axis transversely of said axis of elongation of said arm; (d) carrier means mounting said shoulder means for selective rectilinear movement in a given plane substantially parallel to said first and second axes; (e) support means mounting said carrier means for selective rectilinear movement in a given plane normal to said selective rectilinear movement of said shoulder means; (f) first drive means for selectively rotating said receptacle receiving and support means about said first axis; (g) second drive means for selectively rotating said elongated arm about said second axis; (h) third drive means providing limited selective rectilinear movement of said shoulder means on said carrier means in said given plane; (i) fourth drive means providing limited selective rectilinear movement of said carrier means on said support means in said given plane; (j) storage structure for flowable materials positioned adjacent the limits of said selective rectilinear movements of said shoulder means and said carrier means established by said third and fourth drive means; (k) a plurality of flowable material dispensing means positioned adjacent said given plane in spaced non-interfering relationship to said selective rectilinear movements of said shoulder means and said carrier means, said spacing of said dispensing means from said given plane being less than said given length of said elongated substantially rectilinear arm; (l) means for conducting flowable materials from said storage structure to said dispensing means; and (m) computer means providing integrated control of said first, second, third and fourth drive means in response to a given command. 2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said support means comprises a generally rectilinear frame having rail means along one side thereof mounting said carrier means for movement along said rail means. 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said fourth drive means comprises a drive sprocket mounted for rotation about an axis normal to said rail means at one end thereof, an idler sprocket mounted for rotation about an axis normal to said rail means at the other end thereof, an endles apertured belt mounted for circulation about said drive sprocket and said idler sprocket, means attaching said carrier means to a given location on said endless belt and a motor for selectively driving said drive sprocket. 4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein said carrier means comprises an elongated rectilinear beam member extending normally to said rail means; and wherein said third drive means comprises an elongated lead screw extending along said beam member carrying said shoulder means thereon through a lead screw follower and a motor for selectively rotating said lead screw. 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said first drive means comprises a first electrical stepping motor mounted on said one end of said arm with the shaft thereof oriented for rotation about said first axis and with said receptacle receiving and support means mounted on said shaft thereof and wherein said second drive means comprises a second electrical stepping motor mounted on said shoulder with the shaft thereof oriented for rotation about said second axis and with said other end of said arm mounted on said shaft thereof. 6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 including a plurality of receptacle storage locations positioned adjacent said given plane in spaced non-interfering relationship to said selective rectilinear movements of said shoulder means and said carrier means, said spacing of said receptacle storage locations from said given plane being less than said given length of said elongated substantially rectilinear arm. 7. Apparatus as claimed in claim 6 including a plurality of receptacle delivery locations positioned adjacent said given plane in spaced non-interfering relationship to said selective rectilinear movements of said shoulder means and said carrier means, said spacing of said receptacle delivery locations from said given plane being less than said given length of said elongated substantially rectilinear arm. 8. Apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein each said receptacle storage location comprises a vertically inclined shelf with a stop means at the lowermost extremity thereof, said shelf being dimensioned to support a plurality of receptacles for movement by gravity into engagement with said stop means and removal in turn, the supporting surface of said shelf having a sheet of apertured self-lubricating plastic material thereon. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 including a plurality of flowable material dispensing means within said storage structure positioned adjacent the limits of said selective rectilinear movements of said shoulder means and said carrier means, each said flowable material dispensing means being positioned at a distance less than said given length of said elongated substantially rectilinear arm from said limits of said selective rectilinear movements of said shoulder means and said carrier means established by said third and fourth drive means. 10. Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said flowable materials are stored in said storage structure at a vertical height greater than the vertical height of said flowable material dispensing means and said means for conducting flowable materials from said storage structure to said dispensing means comprises a tubular conduit having an electrically operated valve means interposed therein and controlled by said computer means. 11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said flowable materials are stored in said storage structure at a vertical height less than the vertical height of said flowable material dispensing means and said means for conducting flowable materials from said storage structure to said dispensing means comprises a tubular conduit having an electrically driven pump means interposed therein and controlled by said computer means. 12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said flowable materials are stored in said storage structure under pressure greater than atmospheric pressure and said means for conducting flowable materials from said storage structure to said dispensing means comprises a tubular conduit having an electrically operated valve means interposed therein and controlled by said computer means. 13. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said receptacle receiving and support means comprises a bifurcated member adapted to receive therein a reduced cross-sectional dimension of said receptacle. 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said elongated substantially rectilinear arm of given length is divided into two sections intermediate the ends thereof with said sections interconnected for rotation about a third axis parallel to said first and second axes and wherein a fifth drive means is provided for selectively rotating said two sections with respect to each other under the integrated control of said computer means. 15. Appararus ror the automated assembly of flowable materials into a receptacle and delivery to a selected location comprising: (a) a generally rectangular rigid frame of given horizontal length, vertical height and horizontal width; (b) rail means mounted on and extending along the bottom of said frame; (c) carrier means mounted on said rail means for movement along the horizontal length of said frame; (d) shoulder means mounted on said carrier means for movement along the vertical height of said frame; (e) a first elongated substantially rectilinear arm of given length having one end mounted on said shoulder means for rotation about a first substantially vertical axis; (f) a second elongated substantially rectilinear arm of given length having one end mounted on the other end of said first elongated substantially rectilinear arm for rotation about a second substantially vertical axis; (g) a receptacle receiving and support means mounted on the other end of said second elongated substantially rectilinear arm for rotation about a third substantially vertical axis, said receptacle receiving and support means comprising a body having an open ended slot formed therein extending normally of said third substantially vertical axis, said slot being dimensioned to receive therein a reduced transverse dimension of said receptacle, (h) first drive means for moving said carrier means on said rail means, second drive means for moving said shoulder means on said carrier means, third drive means for rotating said first arm on said shoulder means, fourth drive means for rotating said second arm on said first arm, fifth drive means for rotating said receptacle receiving and support means on said second arm; (i) computer means programmed for the simultaneous integrated control of said first, second, third, fourth and fifth drive means in response to a given command signal; (j) flowable material dispensing means mounted with said frame in spaced relation thereto, the spacing of said flowable material dispensing means from said frame being less than the total of said given length of said first arm and said given length of said second arm; (k) receptacle storage means mounted with said frame in spaced relation thereto, the spacing of said receptacle storage means from said frame being less than the total of said given length of said first arm and said given length of said second arm; and (l) receptacle delivery means mounted with said frame in spaced relation thereto, the spacing of said receptacle delivery means from said frame being less than the total of said given length of said first arm and said given length of said second arm. 16. Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein flowable material storage structure is provided above said frame along said horizontal length thereof. 17. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein said flowable material dispensing means, said receptacle storage means and said receptacle delivery means are positioned below said vertical height of said frame and outside said horizontal length and horizontal width of said frame. 