The positioning system of an industrial robot having a vision sensor and structured light pattern projector, such as a welding robot, is centered and vectored along a joint to be tracked. Navigation information derived from the scene is used to compute move microvectors; the next move vector is extracted and computed while the current move vector is executed. To track 90.degree. corners and small radius turns, the parallelism between two lines formed by the intersection of concentric circular arc light stripes and the joint edges is determined. When the parallelism is out of limits the previously calculated microvector is used until parallelism is re-established.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a method of controlling a robot positioning system to follow a joint between workpieces by projecting a structured light pattern, viewing the scene with a vision sensor and producing images that are transferred to a controller, executing move vectors that cause said positioning system to move by increments to approximately follow said joint and are computed from sets of navigation points extracted from said images indicating the location and width of said joint and from positioning system feedback, a future move vector being extracted and computed while a current move vector is executed; the improvement to track 90.degree. corners and small radius turns wherein said structured light pattern is two concentric arc-shaped stripes and which comprises: (a) every time said move vector is computed, determining two straight lines between the respective sets of navigation points at the intersections of said arc-shaped stripes and joint edges; (b) determining whether said lines are parallel within a prespecified tolerance band; (c) when the parallelism is outside said band, using the previously computed move vector until parallelism is re-established and currently computed move vectors are again executed. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said move vector specifies an angle change to follow said joint which is immediately updated to the currently computed value upon re-establishing parallelism. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said arc-shaped stripes are circular arcs slightly greater in length than half circles. 4. A method of controlling the positioning system of an arc welding robot to move by increments and follow a joint between workpieces, said robot having a light projector and optical vision system, comprising the steps of: (a) projecting two concentric arc-shaped light stripes onto said workpiece and joint ahead of the welding electrode and producing images that are relayed to a video camera and hence to a welding controller; (b) capturing an image and executing a current move while computing a next move microvector from positioning system feedback data and from sets of navigation points extracted from said images which are at the intersections of each light stripe with the joint edges, each move microvector giving the incremental X and Y movement and angle change to approximately follow said joint, and initially determining whether the parallelism of two straight lines through the respective sets of navigation points is within predetermined limits; (c) repeating step (b) with the modification that when the parallelism of said lines is outside said limits, the previously calculated move microvector is used until the parallelism is again within limits; (d) immediately updating the angle change in the move microvector to the currently computed value and resuming step (b). 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said light stripes are circular arcs slightly greater in length than half circles that are centered on said welding electrode. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the slopes of said two lines are compared to determine parallelism. 