A technique for accomplishing automated small batch assembly using a sophisticated computer program controlled robot (8) is disclosed wherein the robot work envelope (51) is divided into three independent work areas. Each work area is provided with a port (53, 55, 57) to which a self-contained, task oriented mobile workstation (130) may be attached. Manipulator (10) is controlled to perform the steps associated with the assembly tasks on the mobile workstations in priority sequence.
Claims We claim: 1. An adaptive assembly system comprising: a computer controlled robotic manipulator for performing a plurality of assembly task sequences; and a plurality of task oriented workstations, each workstation containing all parts and tooling for supporting and supplying a given assembly task, each task oriented workstation being selectively positionable in locking engagement with framework supporting the manipulator whereby the manipulator may advance from one workstation to another with no down time associated therewith. 2. A method of improving automated assembly operation throughout by reducing down time associated with assembly task changeover comprising the steps of: providing a computer controlled robotic manipulator with a plurality of program sequences, each program sequence associated with a particular assembly task; designing self-contained workstations each including all of the parts and manipulator graspable tools for performing a particular assembly task; and placing a plurality of said individual self-contained task oriented workstations adjacent the computer controlled manipulator; and initiating robot operation for progressing from one of said workstations to another to execute the associated programming sequences. 3. Apparatus for enabling a computer controlled robot adapter for performing a variety of independent assembly tasks to sequentially perform these tasks in an improved manner comprising: a plurality of indpendently constructed workstation carts, each workstation cart having thereon means for supplying parts, assembled subassemblies, and tools and fixtures used by the robot for performing a complete assembly task sequence; means for attaching a plurality of said workstation carts to the robot; and means for providing sequences of programming instructions to the robot for progressing from a first workstation cart to another when no further assembly tasks can be performed at the first workstation cart. 4. A flexible manufacturing system comprising: a programmable manipulator supported in a frame and adapted for grasping a plurality of tools; a plurality of movable workstations adapted for mechanical connection to the frame supporting the manipulator, each workstation being supplied with parts and tools graspable by the manipulator for performing assembly tasks; and program means for directing the manipulator to sequentially perform the tasks associated with each workstation. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein each workstation contains parts and tooling for a plurality of individual tasks. 6. The system of claim 4 wherein a workstation includes only the parts and tooling for some of the steps of an assembly task sequence. 7. An improved adaptive assembly system comprising: robot means for performing a variety of tasks under computer program control; a plurality of carts selectively attachable to the robot, each cart providing a self-contained workstation having all parts, fixtures and tools necessary for a given assembly task; and program means for causing the robot to change its location from a first cart to another cart when unable to perform further tasks at the first cart. 