A strain gage type load sensor having a central disc with a plurality of radially outwardly extending spokes each having the ends thereof flexurally attached to an outer annular reaction portion by means of a pair of oppositely directed beams extending from the spokes at right angles thereto for flexually suspending the central disc from the annular portion. A plurality of upstanding posts supporting a common block. The beams and posts are strain gaged for sensing bending loads. In another embodiment, two central discs are stacked axially with each suspended by connection of the spokes to the annular reaction portion. A first group of strain gages is disposed at mid-radius of the spokes for sensing radial tension and compression strains in the spokes. A second group strain gages is disposed at the inner and outer spoke ends for sensing bending strains in the spokes.
Claims I claim: 1. A multi-directional load transducer comprising: (a) an integrally formed member having, (i) an outer annular reaction portion for transmitting force, (ii) an inner disc portion disposed within said annular portion, said disc portion having a plurality of radially outwardly extending spokes each having a plurality of elongated generally thin webs extending outwardly therefrom oppositely in a direction normal to the radius of said disc portion, said webs having the outward ends thereof joined with said annular portion such that said inner disc is suspended from said annular portion by said webs, (iii) a plurality of upstanding generally elongated posts extended from said disc portion in a direction axially of said annular portion, (iv) a common force receiving block member having the outward ends of said posts joined thereto for supporting said block member upon said disc portion; (b) first strain gage means disposed on the surfaces of said posts for sensing bending strains in said posts; and (c) second strain gage means disposed on the surfaces of said webs for sensing bending strains in said webs. 2. The device defined in claim 1, wherein said spokes and webs are received in apertures formed in said annular portion. 3. The device defined in claim 1, wherein said plurality of said posts comprises four posts equally spaced from the center of said disc portion. 4. The device defined in claim 1, wherein said plurality of spokes comprises four radially extending spokes disposed about said disc portion in equally spaced arrangement. 5. A multi-directional load transducer comprising: (a) an annular force transmitting reaction member; (b) at least one disc member for receiving input loads, said disc member received centrally within said annular member; (c) a first and second plurality of spokes respectively extending radially outwardly from said central disc member and joined to said annular member, each of said spokes having reduced transverse section thickness for rendering said spokes resiliently deflectable in bending, said first plurality of spokes disposed circumferentially equally spaced at a first axial station with respect to said annular member and said second plurality of spokes disposed at the same circumferential locations and at an axial station spaced axially from said first axial stations; (d) first strain gage means disposed at generally mid-radius in axially opposite surfaces of each of said spokes for sensing radial compression and tension in each spoke; and (e) second strain gage means disposed on opposite sides of said first strain gage means disposed on said first plurality of spokes on the side thereof facing away from said second plurality of spokes, said second strain gage means oriented to sense tension and compression bending strain in each of said spokes of said first plurality. 6. A load transducer for sensing multi-directional loads comprising: (a) a central disc member adapted for connection to receive force inputs thereto; (b) an outer annular reaction member adapted to transmit said force inputs, said annular member disposed to surround said disc member; (c) a plurality of spokes extending radially outwardly from said central disc; (d) a pair of elongated resilient webs thin in transverse section extending outwardly and generally at right angles with respect to each of said spokes, said webs each having the end thereof remote from said spoke joined to said reaction member for force transmission thereto, wherein said central disc is suspended from said reaction members by said webs; (e) strain gage means disposed on the surface of each said web for sensing tensile and compressive bending strains in the direction of elongation of said webs; (f) electrical bridge circuit means operative to average the strains measured by the gage means on each of said webs; (g) a plurality of posts upstanding from said central disc member; (h) a load block commonly joined to each of said posts for force input thereto; and, (i) strain gage means operable to sense bending strains in said posts. 