A gripper assembly for a robotic arm includes two opposing elements displaced by means of a worm gear arrangement for grasping an object positioned therebetween. The worm gear is driven by a rotary drive motor with a torsion spring coupling the drive motor shaft to the worm. First and second shaft encoders are respectively mounted to the drive motor shaft and the worm shaft. First and second pairs of optical sensors respectively coupled to the first and second shaft encoders detect the angular speed and displacement of the drive motor shaft and the worm. With the torsion constant of the spring known, the force applied by the gripper assembly which is proportional to the angular displacement of the worm may be accurately determined and controlled. In addition, the size of the object grasped by the gripper assembly may be determined. By comparing these operating parameters with selected values, the gripper assembly may be precisely controlled such as by means of a microcomputer.
Claims I claim: 1. In a robotic arm, apparatus for measuring the gripping force applied by said arm upon an object grasped therein, said apparatus comprising: drive means having a rotating shaft; flexible coupling means connected to said rotating shaft; rotary displacement means positioned upon and supported by said rotating shaft and freely rotatable with respect to said rotating shaft, said rotary displacement further connected to said flexible coupling means so as to rotate in response to displacement of said rotating shaft; gripper means coupled to said rotary displacement means and responsive to rotation thereof for engaging an object in a grasping manner; and sensor means coupled to said rotating shaft and to said rotary displacement means for measuring the difference between their respective angular displacements for deriving the force applied by said gripper means upon said object and for measuring an increase in the gripping force when said rotating shaft is displaced in a first direction of rotation and a decrease in the gripping force when said rotating shaft is displaced in a second direction of rotation. 2. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said rotary displacement means includes a worm gear. 3. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said flexible coupling means includes a torsion spring connected at a first end to said rotating shaft and at a second end to said rotary displacement means. 4. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said gripper means includes first and second linearly displaceable engaging element having respective facing surfaces between which said object is grasped. 5. Apparatus as in claim 4 wherein said gripper means further includes first and second arms pivotally coupled to respective engaging elements and to said rotary displacement means. 6. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said sensor means includes first and second optical sensors respectively coupled to said rotating shaft and to said rotary displacement means for measuring the angular speed, displacement and direction of rotation thereof. 7. Apparatus as in claim 6 wherein each of said first and second optical sensors includes a shaft encoder in combination with light emitting and detecting means for detecting angular displacement. 8. Apparatus as in claim 7 wherein each of said light emitting means includes a pair of light emitting diodes and phototransistors 90.degree. out of electrical phase for determining the direction of angular displacement. 9. A controller for controlling the grasping force exerted upon an object by a gripper device, said controller comprising: a drive motor having a bi-directional rotary drive shaft mounted thereto; rotary displacement means coupled to said gripper device for effecting the continuous movement of said gripper device from a fully open position to a fully closed position when said rotary displacement means is rotated in a first direction and for effecting the continuous movement of said gripper device from a fully closed position to a fully open position when said rotary displacement means is rotated in a second direction, and wherein an object is grasped when said gripper device is moved in the direction of said fully closed position, said rotary displacement means positioned upon and supported by said rotary drive shaft and freely rotatable with respect thereto; flexible coupling means for connecting said rotary drive shaft to said rotary displacement means whereby said gripper device is responsive to operation of said drive motor and for permitting said rotary drive shaft and said rotary displacement means to rotate at different angular velocities in said first and second directions of rotation; sensor means coupled to said rotary drive shaft and to said rotary displacement means for measuring the difference between their respective angular displacements for determining the force applied by said gripper device upon an object positioned therein and for measuring an increase in the grasping force when said rotary drive shaft is rotationally displaced in said first direction and a decrease in the grasping force when said rotary drive shaft is rotationally displaced in said second direction; and control means coupled to said drive motor and to said sensor means for controlling the force applied by said gripper device upon said object. 10. A controller in accordance with claim 9 wherein said rotary displacement means includes a worm gear. 11. A controller in accordance with claim 10 wherein said gripper device includes linearly displaceable first and second engaging elements each coupled to said worm gear by means of a respective pair of pivotally displaceable arms. 12. A controller in accordance with claim 9 wherein said flexible coupling means includes a torsion spring coupled at a first end thereof to said rotary displacement means and at a second end thereof to the rotary drive shaft of said drive motor. 13. A controller in accordance with claim 9 wherein said sensor means includes first and second optical sensors respectively coupled to said rotary drive shaft and to said rotary displacement means for measuring the angular speed, displacement and direction of rotation thereof. 14. A controller in accordance with claim 13 wherein each of said first and second optical sensor includes a shaft encoder in combination with light emitting and detecting means. 15. A controller in accordance with claim 14 wherein each of said light emitting means includes a pair of light emitting diodes 90.degree. out of electrical phase for determining the direction of angular rotation. 16. A controller as in claim 9 further including input means coupled to said control means for providing predetermined operating parameters thereto in regulating the operation of said gripper device in accordance therewith. 17. A controller as in claim 9 wherein said control means includes a microcomputer. 