A torque gauge using magnetoelastic ribbons is presented wherein changes in the magnetic characteristics of these ribbons are detectable in a push-pull mode for determining torque forces applied to the ribbons. Respective tensile and compressive forces applied to the ribbons cause a change in the magnetic qualities of the ribbons and of the inductance of coils wound about the ribbons with the change of inductance being a measure of the torque forces applied to the input of the device.
Claims What is claimed as new and secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. Apparatus for measuring torque forces applied to a member comprising: a pair of elongated magnetoelastic means portions having one of the ends along the length of each joined to each other with the other respective end being secured to a stationary member, a torque transmission means connected between a rotatable member and the joined ends of the magnetoelastic means portions for transmitting torque forces applied to the rotatable member to the joined ends for applying tensile and compressive stress forces to the magnetoelastic means portions along the length, the tensile stress force and the compressive stress force changing the values of the magnetic characteristics of the respective magnetoelastic means portions, a first and second magnetic coupling means disposed in close proximity to each of the magnetoelastic means portions so that a magnetic field generatable by the first magnetic coupling means and penetrating the respective magnetoelastic means portions will cause changes in the generated magnetic field, the change of values of the generated magnetic field being detectable and measurable at the second magnetic coupling means for determining the amount of torque force applied to the rotatable member. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first and second magnetic coupling means are coils wound about the respective magnetoelastic means portions, the first magnetic coupling means being impressible by electric current for generating the magnetic field interacting with the respective magnetoelastic means portions, the respective second coupling means receiving the effected magnetic field and connectable to external circuitry for measuring the amount of the effect on the magnetic field and correllating the amount of change in values of the magnetic field for measurement of torque applied to the rotatable member. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising a return spring for returning the rotatable member back to the original position after a torque force has been applied and removed from the rotatable member. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the magnetoelastic means portions are pretensioned along their respective length. 5. Apparatus for measuring torque forces applied to a robotic gripping hand comprising: a housing disposed on a portion of the hand engagable with a gripped object, the housing having a first and second spaced apart ends along the length of the housing and defining a cavity inside the housing, the first end being open and adapted for engagement with the gripped object, the second end being adapted for securement to the hand surface, a pair of elongated magnetoelastic means portions having one of the ends along the length of each joined to each other with the other end being secured to the housing, a torque reception means disposed at the first end of the housing for receiving torques applied between the gripped object and the hand, a torque transmission means connected between the torque reception means and the joinder of the magnetoelastic means portions for transmitting torque forces applied to the torque reception means for applying a tensile stress force to one of the magnetoelastic means portions along the length and a compressive stress force to the other one of the magnetoelastic means portions along the length, the tensile stress force and the compressive stress force hanging the values of the magnetic characteristics of the respective magnetoelastic means portions, and first and second magnetic coupling means disposed in close proximity to each of the magnetoelastic means portions so that a magnetic field generated by the first magnetic coupling means penetrating the respective magnetoelastic means portion and acted upon by the respective magnetoelastic means portion will cause a change of values of the magnetic characteristics of the respective magnetoelastic means portion, the change of values effected by the magnetic field being detectable and measureable at the second magnetic coupling means for determining the amount of torque force applied to the torque reception means. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the first and second magnetic coupling means are coils wound about the respective magnetoelastic means portion, the first magnetic coupling means being impressible by an electric current for generating the magnetic field interacting with the respective magnetoelastic means portion, the respective second coupling means receiving the effected magnetic field and correlating the amount of change of values of the magnetic field to measurement of torque applied to the torque receiving means. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising a return spring for returning the torque receiving means back to the original position after a torque force has been applied and removed from the torque receiving means. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the magnetoelastic means portions are pre-tensioned along their respective length. 9. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the magnetoelastic means portions are disposed about the outerwall of the housing. 10. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the housing is provided with bearing members and the magnetoelastic means portions are held curved from a straight longitudinal path against the bearing members at the bending points. 11. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the magnetoelastic means portions are unitary and wherein the apparatus further comprises coupling means secured to the magnetoelastic means portions at the joinder between them, said coupling being connected to the torque receiving means for transferring torque generated forces to the magnetoelastic means portions. 