In an assembly for connecting electrical connectors to flat multi-conductor cable, an arm of a robot is provided with a connector transfer nest into which a connector can be fed at a connector feed station, for transfer by the robot to a press through which the cable has been fed. The nest is inserted into the press by the robot so that the cable extends through the nest and the press is then operated to actuate means in the nest to force conductor receiving portions of terminals in the connector through the cable to receive the cable conductors. The robot is then operated to withdraw the nest from the press leaving the connector on the cable and the cable is fed forward to allow the robot to apply a further connector thereto and so on. Means may be provided for severing the cable with the connectors thereon to provide separate electrical harnesses.
Claims We claim: 1. An assembly for connecting to the conductors of a flat multiconductor cable, electrical connectors having electrical terminals provided with cable conductor-receiving portions, the assembly comprising: a connector pickup station; a press having platens; a means for feeding the cable intermittently in a feed direction, between said platens; a connector transfer nest for releasably retaining an electrical connector therein and for receiving the cable, the nest having means movable by said platens, to insert the conductors of the cable into the conductor-receiving portions of the terminals of the connector, and subsequently to release the connector; a robot having an arm carrying the transfer nest, the arm being movable to locate the nest at the pickup station and to transfer the nest to a position between said platens; means at the pickup station for feeding a connector into the nest when the latter has been located at the pickup station; and means for actuating the press to cause the platens to cooperate with said movable means of the nest, to insert the cable conductors into said conductor-receiving portions when the nest is positioned between the platens, and then to release the connector from the nest thereby to allow the nest to be withdrawn from the press by the robot. 2. An assembly as claimed in claim 1, further comprising means on the robot arm for rotating the nest between a plurality of angular positions during its transfer from the pickup station to the press, the press being constructed for receiving the nest between the platens in two opposite directions. 3. An assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a cable severing station arranged downstream of the press in the cable feed direction and having a cable gripping unit and a cable cutting unit movable between a cable cutting position in the cable gripping unit and a position withdrawn therefrom allow the cable with the connector thereon, to be fed through the cable gripping unit. 4. An assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a cable cutting station mounted downstream of the press in the cable feed direction and having a cable gripping unit, a first cable cutting unit adapted to sever a slug of the cable from between two connectors secured to the cable at positions spaced therealong in the same orientation, and a second cable cutting unit for severing a slug of the cable from between two connectors which have been secured thereto at positions spaced therealong in different orientations, each cable cutting unit being movable between a cable severing position in the cable gripping unit and to a position withdrawn therefrom to allow the cable with the connectors thereon to be fed through the cable gripping unit. 5. An assembly as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a device for testing electrical continuity between each terminal of the connector and a corresponding conductor of the cable, the nest comprising a bussing member engageable with the terminals of a connector in the nest when the cable conductors have been inserted into the conductor-receiving portions, the testing device being arranged to scan the conductors of the cable and being connected to the bussing member. 6. An assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the nest comprises a plunger connected to a frame and being movable with respect thereto, against the action of resilient return means, to drive the conductor-receiving portions of the terminals of the connector through the cable in cooperation with counterabutment means, and latch means for retaining the connector in the nest, the latch means being movable into a position to release the connector upon the insertion of the conductors into the conductor-receiving portions so that the connector is released for the nest when the plunger is returned by the resilient return means. 7. An assembly as claimed in claim 6, wherein the counterabutment means comprises a second plunger which is movable towards the first-mentioned plunger against the action of the resilient return means, the first-mentioned plunger being adapted to releasably receive a body portion of the connector and the second plunger being adapted to releasably receive a cover portion of the connector having means for latching it to the body portion, the nest defining a slot for receiving the cable, the slot extending between the plungers. 8. An assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the nest is connected to the arm of the robot by means of an adaptor secured to the nest and releasably receiving a central spigot projecting from a rotary disk on the arm and a pin positioned eccentrically on the disk, release means provided in the adaptor being depressible to release the spigot therefrom. 9. An assembly as claimed in claim 8, wherein the connector pickup station comprises a platform for supporting the nest, the platform having thereon a member for engagement with the nest to retain it on the platform and a member for depressing the release means of the adaptor, said members being simultaneously actuable to retain the nest on the platform to release the spigot from the adaptor, and to release the nest from the platform and to retain the spigot in the adaptor. 10. An assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cable feed mechanism comprises a plurality of idle feed rolls, an endless belt of flexible but inextensible material extending thereabout, and a driven roll positioned to engage the cable with the belt at a position between the idle rolls. 11. An assembly as claimed in claim 10, wherein the idle rolls are three in number, and comprise two smaller idle rolls positioned on either side of a larger idle roll, the idle rolls being supported by a frame which is movable with respect to the driven roll, the driven roll being positioned between the larger idle roll and one of the smaller idle rolls, and a further idle roll being positioned to engage the cable with the belt, at a position between the larger idle roll and the other smaller idle roll, means being provided to urge the frame towards the driven roll and the further idle roll. 12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the pickup station comprises a connector magazine, a drive unit on one side of the magazine, a nest support platform on the opposite side of the magazine, a ram which is movable by means of the drive unit from a retracted position through the drive unit and towards the nest supporting platform, and a means for guiding a connector driven by the ram, into the nest. 13. An assembly as claimed in claim 12, wherein the ram has a projection for actuating a latch release member on the nest, when such is positioned on said platform to release a latch in the nest, so as to latch into the nest, a connector inserted thereinto by means of the ram. 14. An assembly as claimed in claim 13, wherein the magazine contains a stack of connector bodies and a stack of connector covers which are latchingly engageable with the connector bodies, a first arm of the ram being positioned, when the ram is driven towards said platform by means of the drive unit, to insert a connector body into the nest and a second arm of the ram being positioned simultaneously to insert a connector cover into the nest, a separator bar between said arms extending between the body and the cover. 15. An assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the press comprises a plurality of columns, bearings slidably supporting the columns, a first platen supporting plate secured to the distal ends of the columns, a second platen supporting plate mounted to slide along the columns, between the bearings of said first plate, one platen being supported on the first plate and the other on the second plate, a toggle linkage connected to the second plate and to the columns, and a drive unit adapted to act upon the toggle mechanism so as to drive the platen supporting plates towards and away from one another. 16. An assembly as claimed in claim 6, wherein the plunger is connected to the frame by means of cross roller bearings, and is slidable with respect thereto on rods slidably engaging in bushings in the plunger, the nest being provided with spring-loaded cable gripping plates mounted on rods engaging in bushings in the plunger and in the counterabutment. 17. An assembly for the production of electrical harnesses each comprising electrical connectors mechanically and electrically connected to lengths of flat cable, the assembly comprising: a connector pickup station; a press mounted at a position spaced from the pickup station; a cable supply source positioned on one side of the press; a cable cutting and gripping station positioned on the opposite side of the press, and having an open cable receiving position and a closed cable gripping and cable cutting position; a cable feed mechanism adapted to intermittently drive cable from the source through the press and through the cable cutting and gripping station in said open position thereof; a connector transfer nest for releasably receiving an electrical connector provided with terminals having conductor-receiving portions projecting from a face of the connector, and for receiving the cable at a position adjacent to said face; means at the pick-up station for inserting an electrical connector into the nest; a robot having an arm carrying said nest and being adapted to position the nest at the pick-up station to receive a connector therefrom, to transfer the nest from the pick-up station to the press and subsequently to withdraw the nest from the press; means for actuating the press when the nest is positioned therein, to insert the conductors of the cable into the conductor-receiving portions of the connector, and for further actuating the press to release the connector from the nest to permit the nest; and means for actuating the gripping and cutting station to grip the cable fed therethrough by the cable feed mechanism and to sever the cable to produce electrical harnesses. 18. An assembly as claimed in claim 17, wherein the gripping and cutting station is provided with means for gripping a pair of spaced connectors therein and with blades for severing the length of cable extending between the connectors against facing sides thereof and for gripping the cable on each side of the connectors and therebetween. 19. An assembly as claimed in claim 17, wherein a plurality of connector pickup stations are provided and a plurality of nests each supported at a pickup station, the arm of the robot being attachable to, and detachable from, each nest in turn. 20. An assembly as claimed in claim 17, wherein a conveyor is provided on the side of the cable cutting and gripping station, remote from the press, the conveyor having at its end remote from the cable gripping and cutting station, a flip chute and means being provided for detecting discontinuity between a cable conductor and a terminal to which it has been connected, and for actuating the flip chute to discard a harness fed thereinto by the conveyor and in respect of which a discontinuity has been detected. 