The invention is a system for the assembly of wire harnesses. More particularly the invention provides an assembly tool and a wire feed system for delivering a completed wire from a wire fabrication cell to the final wire harness assembly point. The assembly tool consists of two symmetrical parts which function together in jaw-like fashion to receive and then guide a wire to an assembly point. Each half of the assembly tool is double-ended, so that the wire may be inserted from either the left or right half of the assembly tool. The wire feed system includes a wire tensioning and centering tool mounted on the end effector and a pneumatically driven wire feed system. Back pressure is used to effectively blow the wire from a first point remote from the assembly point to the gripper for acquisition by the gripper. The wire harness assembly system also includes a stationary clamp which initially receives the terminated wire from the wire feed system and positions it for acquisition by the gripper and at least one and preferably several alignment fixtures disposed on various points of a wire harness formboard. The alignment fixtures are adapted to receive the contact end gripper thereinto for the proper alignment of the contact with the gripper prior to insertion of the contact into a connector. The invention also provides a technique whereby the manufacturer of high density wire harnesses can be effectively and efficiently carried out.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end effector for the insertion of a terminated wire into a connector comprising: first and second bracket means adapted to be mounted onto an industrial manipulator, said bracket means including a strut portion, said bracket means being adapted for selected movement toward and away from each other; first and second substantially symmetrical outer jaw means, each of which jaw means is slidably mounted in said strut portion for movement substantially perpendicular to the movement of said bracket means; whereby the selected movement of the bracket positions said outer jaw means in an open wire receiving position or a closed wire guiding and pin insertion position, said outer jaw means defining therein a wire guiding channel when closed; and inner clamp means disposed within said outer jaw means for selective actuation between a first open position and a second closed, wire engaging position. 2. The end effector of claim 1 wherein the first and second outer jaw means which are slidably mounted with respect to the strut portion of the bracket means include biasing means operatively associated with the bracket means and the outer jaw means for maintaining the outer jaws in a neutral position with respect to the strut portion. 3. The end effector of claim 2 wherein each strut portion includes at least one bore therein, and the first and second substantially symmetrical outer jaws include at least one rod means slidably disposed in said at least one bore and a collet disposed at each end of said slidably mounted rod, each of said collets defining in part the wire guiding channel. 4. The end effector of claim 3 wherein the biasing means are spring means concentrically disposed about the rod means. 5. The end effector of claim 4 wherein the strut portion has two bores therein, and each of the two outer jaws includes two rod means slidably disposed in the two bores and wherein at least one of the rods has a spring biasing means mounted thereon. 6. The end effector of claim 5 wherein each of the collet means includes a pair of knife edge guide means disposed therein. 7. The end effector of claim 1 wherein the inner clamp means comprise pneumatically actuated cylinders disposed in each of the strut portions, with pistons extending outwardly therefrom toward the opposed strut member, and clamp means mounted on each of said pistons, whereby actuation of said pneumatic cylinders cause said pistons to urge the clamp means against each other. 8. The end effector of claim 7 wherein the clamp means includes channels therein which define a wire gripping passage when said clamp means is engaged. 9. The end effector of claim 8 wherein the inner clamp means channels are V-shaped grooves which can accommodate and securely grasp therebetween the wire to be inserted into a connector. 10. The end effector of claim 1 including a wire tensioning and centering tool having a wire passage bore therethrough operatively associated with one of the first and second bracket means and adapted for elevational displacement with respect to the wire passage channel of the outer jaw means, such that in a first extended position the wire passage bore of the tensioning and centering tool is aligned with the wire passage channel of the outer jaws and in a second retracted position, the wire tensioning and centering tool is elevationally cleared from the outer jaws, and wherein the wire tensioning and centering tool is laterally movable between a first and second position in order to maintain on axis alignment with the outer jaws when said jaws are in the open wire receiving position. 11. The end effector of claim 10 wherein the wire tensioning and centering device includes clamp means therein for the selected engaging of a wire disposed in the wire passage bore therethrough. 12. The end effector of claim 11 wherein the clamp means includes a pneumatically actuated cylinder. 13. The end effector of claim 11 wherein the wire tensioning and centering device is operatively associated with the bracket means by at least one pneumatic cylinder for effecting lateral movement and at least one pneumatic cylinder for effecting elevational displacement. 14. The end effector of claim 10 including a wire feed system for conveying a wire from a point remote to the end effector to a selected location for acquisition by the end effector, said wire feed system comprising tube means operatively associated with the wire passage bore of the wire tensioning and centering tool, and means operatively associated with said tube means for generating a back air pressure in said tube means to blow the wire from the remote point to the selected location for acquisition. 15. A system for the acquisition and insertion of a terminated wire into an assembly point mounted on a formboard comprising: an end effector comprising first and second bracket means adapted to be mounted onto an industrial manipulator, said bracket means including a strut portion, said bracket means being adapted for selected movement toward and away from each other; first and second substantially symmetrical outer jaw means, each of which is slidably mounted in said strut portion for movement substantially perpendicular to the movement of said bracket means; whereby the selected movement of the bracket means positions said outer jaw means in an open wire receiving position and a closed wire guide and pin insertion position, said outer jaw means defining therein a wire guiding channel when closed; inner means disposed within said outer jaw means for selective actuation between a first open position and a second closed wire engaging position; wire tensioning and centering means having a wire passage bore therethrough operationally associated with one of the first and second bracket means and adapted for elevational displacement with respect to the wire passage channel of the outer jaw means, such that in a first extended position the wire passage bore of the tensioning and centering tool is aligned with the wire passage channel of the outer jaws and in a second retracted position, the wire tensioning and centering tool is elevationally cleared from the outer jaws, and wherein the wire tensioning and centering tool is laterally movable between a first and second position to maintain an on axis alignment with the outer jaws when said jaws are in the open wire receiving position; a wire feed system for conveying a wire from a point remote from the end effector to a selected location for acquisition by the end effector, said wire feed system comprising tube means operatively associated with the wire passage bore of the wire tensioning and centering tool, and means operatively associated with said tube means for generating a back air pressure in said tube means to blow the wire from the remote location to the selected location; stationary clamp means comprising a generally rectangular member which is mounted onto the formboard, said stationary clamp means including a bore therein for receiving a terminated wire therein from said tensioning and centering device and including clamp means in said rectangular member for selectively engaging and releasing said terminated wire within said bore; and at least one alignment fixture adapted to be mounted onto the formboard and defining alignment bore means therein for receiving the terminated wire portion and outer gripper jaws for the alignment of said terminated wire portion with said jaws. 16. The system according to claim 15 wherein the first and second outer jaw means which are slidably mounted with respect to the strut portion of the bracket means include biasing means for maintaining the outer jaws in a neutral position with respect to the strut portion. 17. The system according to claim 16 wherein each strut portion includes at least one bore therein, and the first and second substantially symmetrical outer jaws include at least one rod means slidably disposed in said at least one bore and a collet disposed at each end of said slidably mounted rod, each of said collets defining in part the wire guiding channel. 18. The system according to claim 17 wherein the biasing means are spring means concentrically disposed about the rod means. 19. The system according to claim 18 wherein the strut means has two bores therein, and each of the two outer jaws includes two rod means slidably disposed in the two bores and wherein at least one of the rods has a spring biasing means mounted thereon. 20. The system according to claim 19 wherein each of the collet means includes a pair of knife edge guide means disposed therein. 21. The system according to claim 15 wherein the inner clamp means channels are V-shaped grooves which can accommodate and securely grasp therebetween the wire to be inserted into a connector. 22. The system according to claim 15 wherein the wire tensioning and centering device includes clamp means therein for the selected engaging of a wire disposed in the wire passage bore therethrough. 23. The system according to claim 15 wherein the clamp means includes a pneumatically actuated cylinder. 24. The system according to claim 15 wherein the wire tensioning and centering device is operatively associated with the bracket means by at least one pneumatic cylinder for effecting lateral movement and at least one pneumatic cylinder for effecting elevational displacement. 25. A process for the automated manufacture of a cable harness comprising the steps of: (1) presenting a terminated wire to a selected end effector; (2) loading the terminated wire into the selected end effector; (3) positioning the end effector for the insertion of a first end of the terminated wire into a desired first assembly point; (4) inserting the first end of the terminated wire into the first assembly point; (5) routing the terminated wire along a predetermined cable harness layout; (6) loading a second end of the terminated wire into the selected end effector; (7) positioning the end effector for insertion of the second end of the terminated wire into a desired second assembly point; and (8) inserting the second end of the terminated wire into the desired second assembly point. 26. The process for the automated manufacturing of a cable harness according to claim 25 wherein the step of presenting the terminated wire to a selected end effector includes the step of conveying the terminated wire from a first location distal from the selected end effector to a location proximate to the selected end effector. 27. The process for the automated manufacturing of a cable harness according to claim 25 wherein the step of loading the terminated wire into the selected end effector includes the step of aligning the first end of the terminated wire with the end effector for proper insertion into the first assembly point. 28. The process for the automated manufacturing of a cable harness according to claim 25 wherein the step of routing the terminated wire along a predetermined cable harness layout includes the step of providing a dedicated gripper for conveying the terminated wire from the first assembly point to the second assembly point. 29. The process for the automated manufacturing of a cable harness according to claim 25 wherein the step of inserting the terminated wire into the first assembly point includes the further step of testing the insertion of the wire into the assembly point by insuring that the end of the terminated wire being so inserted is properly mounted in the assembly point. 30. An apparatus for the automated manufacture of a high density cable harness comprising: means for presenting a terminated wire to a selected end effector; means operatively associated with the presenting means for loading the terminated wire into the selected end effector; means operatively associated with the end effector for positioning the end effector for insertion of a first end of the terminated wire into a desired first assembly point; means operatively associated with the end effector for inserting the first end of the terminated wire into the first assembly point; means operatively associated with the means for positioning the end effector for routing the terminated wire along a predetermined cable harness layout; means operatively associated with the end effector for loading a second end of the terminated wire into the selected end effector; means operatively associated with the end effector for positioning the end effector for insertion of the second end of the terminated wire into a desired second assembly point; and means operatively associated with the end effector for inserting the second end of the terminated wire into a desired second assembly point. 31. An apparatus for the automated manufacture of a cable harness assembly according to claim 30 wherein the means for positioning the end effector for the insertion of a terminated wire into a desired assembly point is an orthogonal robot capable of transporting the selected end effector in the X, Y and Z axes. 32. An apparatus for the automated manufacture of a cable harness assembly according to claim 30 wherein the selected end effector is chosen from a plurality of dedicated end effectors, each of which dedicated end effector is adapted to accommodate a specific style of terminated wire. 