A machining center or system for shaping workpieces, having a numerical controller (NC) for transmitting control commands in accordance with input data. A principal tool has a tool holder and a numerically controlled machining feed unit for shaping a workpiece under the numerical commands. A tool storage station accepts a plurality of formed machining tools and a tool changing mechanism interconnects the tool storage station and the principal machine tool. The center incorporates a tool reforming station which responds to a set of numerical commands from the NC unit to act on a formed machining tool when on one of the tool storage station, the tool changing mechanism and the tool holder in the principal machine tool. The tool reforming station includes at least one subsidiary machine tool with a machining feed unit operative under another set of numerical commands from the NC unit to reform the formed machining tool by commanded dimensions for transfer or re-transfer into the shaping zone in the principal machine tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A machining system for shaping workpieces, comprising: a numerical control unit for transmitting numerical commands in accordance with input data received therein; a principal EDM machine tool having holding means for securely supporting a member in machining relationship with a workpiece in a shaping zone and machining feed means operable under a first set of numerical commands of the NC unit to shape the workpiece into commanded shape and dimensions in said zone by means of the machining member; a tool storage station for accepting a plurality of formed EDM machining tools and including machining tools which differ from one another in shape or size to serve different functions, in a magazine thereof to retentively hold them on their respective retainer means therein; tool transfer means operatively associated between said tool storage station and said machine tool and having transfer drive means operable under a second set of numerical commands of the control unit to accept a selected one of said formed machining tools from said magazine and to transfer and secure it to said tool holding means for shaping said workpiece with it as said machining member in said machine tool and thereafter for returning it to said magazine; and tool reforming means operable to actuate under a third set of numerical commands of the control unit to act on a said selected formed machining tool when on one of said retainer means, said transfer means and said tool holding means, said tool reforming means including at least one subsidiary machine tool operable under a fourth set of numerical commands of the control unit to reform said formed machining tool by commanded dimensions for transfer or re-transfer into said shaping zone in the principal machine tool. 2. The system defined in claim 1 wherein said at least one subsidiary machine tool includes a subsidiary electroerosion machine. 3. The system defined in claim 2 wherein said at least one subsidiary machine tool further includes a milling machine and a grinding machine. 4. A machining system for shaping a workpiece, comprising: a digital control circuit; a principal EDM machine tool having tool holding means for securely supporting a member in machining relationship with the workpiece in a shaping zone and machining feed means operable under a first set of digital commands from the control circuit to shape the workpiece into commanded shape and dimensions by means of the machining member; a tool reception stage for accepting in retainer means therein a plurality of EDM machining tools preformed outside of the system and including machining tools which differ from one another in shape or size to serve different functions; tool transfer means arranged to interconnect said tool reception stage and said machine tool and operable under a second set of digital commands from the control circuit to transfer the accepted preformed machining tool from the tool reception stage to the tool holding means for shaping the workpiece with it as said machining member in said machine tool; and a tool reforming stage operable to actuate under a third set of digital commands from the control circuit to act on the machining tool when on one of said retainer means, said transfer means and said holding means, the tool reforming stage including at least one subsidiary machine tool operable under a fourth set of digital commands from the control circuit to reform the preformed machining tool by commanded dimensions for transfer or re-transfer into said shaping zone in said principal machine tool. 5. The system defined in claim 4 wherein said at least one subsidiary machine tool includes a subsidiary electroerosion machine. 6. The system defined in claim 4 wherein said at least one subsidiary machine tool includes a milling machine and a grinding machine. 7. A machining system for shaping a workpiece, comprising: a numerical control unit for transmitting control commands following input data received therein; a principal EDM machine tool having tool holding means for accepting a selected one of plurality of formed EDM machining tools and securely supporting it in machining relationship with the workpiece in a shaping zone and machining feed means operable under a first set of control commands from the NC unit to partially shape the workpiece into commanded shape and dimensions by means of the formed machining tool, said machining tools including machining tools which differ from one another in shape or size to serve different functions; and tool reforming means comprising tool handling means operative under a second set of control commands from the NC unit to remove the machining tool out of the shaping zone of the machine tool and at least one subsidiary machine tool operative under a third set of control commands from the NC unit to reform the removed machining tool by commanded dimensions, the tool handling means being operative under a fourth set of control commands from the NC unit to return the reformed machining tool into the shaping zone in the principal machine tool, the machining feed means therein being then operative under a fifth set of control commands from the NC unit to continue shaping of the partially shaped workpiece to shape it into commanded shape and dimensions. 8. The system defined in claim 7 wherein said at least one subsidiary machine tool includes a subsidiary electroerosion machine. 9. The system defined in claim 7 wherein said at least one subsidiary machine tool includes a milling machine. 10. The system defined in claim 7 wherein said at least one subsidiary machine includes a grinding machine. 