A double pinch-push contact insertion end-effector for performing contact insertion on a universal basis. End-effector comprises a front jaw assembly which is moveable relative to a rear jaw assembly. Each jaw assembly comprises a pair of jaws, where each pair is individually actuable to effect contact insertion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A double pinch-push contact insertion end-effector comprising: a base plate; a front jaw assembly having a first pair of jaws; a rear jaw assembly fixedly mounted to said base plate and having a second pair of jaws; first means for moving said first jaw assembly relative to said rear jaw assembly, said first means including a ball slide slideably coupled between said front jaw assembly and said base plate and an actuator actively coupled between said front jaw assembly and said base plate; second means for actuating closure of said first pair of jaws; and third means for actuating closure of said second pair of jaws. 2. The end-effector of claim 1, wherein said actuator comprises an air cylinder. 3. The end-effector of claim 1, wherein said actuator comprises a hydraulic cylinder. 4. The end-effector of claim 1, wherein said second means comprises a ball slide and an actuator. 5. The end-effector of claim 1, wherein said second means comprises a translating mechanism for symmetrical jaw movement and a ball slide. 6. The end-effector of claim 5, wherein said second means further comprises an actuator actively coupled to said ball slide. 7. The end-effector of claim 1, wherein said third means comprises a ball slide and an actuator. 8. The end-effector of claim 1, wherein said third means comprises a translating mechanism for symmetrical jaw movement and a ball slide. 9. The end-effector of claim 8, wherein said third means further comprises an actuator actively coupled to said ball slide. 10. The end-effector of claim 1 wherein said first pair of jaws and said second pair of jaws each comprise an upper and lower jaw, at least one of said jaws defining therein a longitudinal contact-receiving recess. 11. The end-effector of claim 1, further comprising an LVDT coupled between said base plate and said front jaw assembly. 12. The end-effector of claim 11, further comprising at least one strain gauge mounted on said front jaw assembly. 13. A double pinch-push contact insertion end-effector comprising: a front jaw assembly having a first pair of jaws, a rear jaw assembly having a second pair of jaws, first means for moving said front jaw assembly relative to said rear jaw assembly, comprising a first ball slide and a first actuator, second means for actuating closure of said first pair of jaws, comprising a second ball slide and a second actuator, third means for actuating closure of said second pair of jaws, comprising a third ball slide and a third actuator, a base plate, wherein said rear jaw assembly is fixedly mounted to said base plate, and further comprising means to vary the stroke length of said front jaw assembly. 14. The end-effector of claim 13, wherein said second means further comprises a first translating mechanism for symmetrical jaw movement mounted between said second ball slide and said first pair of jaws. 15. The end-effector of claim 14, wherein said second means further comprises an actuator actively coupled to said second ball slide. 16. The end-effector of claim 13, wherein said third means further comprises a second translating mechanism for symmetrical jaw movement mounted between said third ball slide and said second pair of jaws. 17. The end-effector of claim 16, wherein said third means further comprises an actuator actively coupled to said third ball slide. 18. The end-effector of claim 13, wherein said first pair of jaws and said second pair of jaws each comprise an upper and lower jaw, each of said upper jaws further defining therein a longitudinal contact-receiving recess, further comprising an LVDT coupled between said base plate and said front jaw assembly, and at least one strain gauge actively mounted on said front jaw assembly. 