This invention relates to electro-optical sensing of form type and other defects on surfaces such as sheet metal or plastic panels. Method and apparatus are disclosed for detection and quantification of defects such as dents, creases, low spots, flat spots, etc. which are a result of the manufacturing, material handling and assembly process. Surfaces of interest are generally those of automobile body panels, (e.g. hoods, fenders), refrigerator panels, furniture panels, and aircraft panels. Similar applications exist to dies and other formed metallic or plastic parts. Both automatic and human visual methods and apparatus are disclosed. The disclosed invention is also effective on paint defects such as orange peel encountered in automotive and other applications. Assemblies of panels, such as car bodies may also be inspected using the invention, and both fixed and moving (e.g. robotic) sensor versions are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of inspecting a surface comprising the steps of: illuminating an extensive area of the surface by directing light onto the surface area in such a manner that light is reflected therefrom; providing a retroreflective member comprising a large number of small retroreflective elements in a position such that light reflected from the extensive illuminated surface area impinges thereon, is then returned to the illuminated surface area, and is re-reflected therefrom; imaging light re-reflected from the extensive illuminated surface area; and detecting dark or bright areas in the imaged light, the dark or bright areas being indicative of a characteristic of the extensive illuminated surface area. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said illuminating is effected with light from a divergent light source. 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein said divergent light source comprises a point light source. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein said imaging and detecting are effected by visual observation. 5. A method according to claim 1 further comprising recording said imaged light. 6. A method according to claim 5 wherein said detecting comprises detecting said dark or bright areas in said recorded imaged light. 7. A method according to claim 2 wherein said illuminating is effected from a location displaced from the axis of light detection. 8. Apparatus for inspecting a surface comprising; illuminating means for illuminating an extensive area of a surface by directing light onto the surface area in such a manner that light is reflected therefrom; a retroreflective member comprising a large number of small retroreflective elements positioned relative to the surface such that light reflected from the extensive illuminated surface area impinges thereon, is then returned to the illuminated surface area, and is re-reflected therefrom; imaging means for imaging light re-reflected from the extensive illuminated surface area; and detecting means for detecting dark or bright areas in the imaged light, the dark or bright areas being indicative of a characteristic of the extensive illuminated surface area. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said illuminating means comprises a divergent light source. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said divergent light source comprises a point light source. 11. Apparatus according to claim 8 further comprising means for recording said imaged light. 12. Apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said detecting means comprises means for detecting said dark or bright areas in said recorded imaged light. 13. Apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said illuminating means is positioned in a location displaced from the axis of light detection. 14. A method of inspecting a surface comprising: illuminating an extensive area of a surface of an object with light from a divergent light source; providing a retroreflective member comprising a large number of small retroreflective elements in a position such that light reflected from said illuminated surface is returned to the illuminated surface and re-reflected therefrom; and imaging said re-reflected light. 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein said imaging is effected by visual observation. 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein said visual observation is effected from a vantage point which is substantially on the axis of illumination of said surface. 17. A method according to claim 15 wherein said visual observation is effected from a vantage point which is displaced from the axis of illumination of said surface. 18. A method according to claim 14 further comprising recording the imaged light. 19. A method according to claim 14 wherein said divergent light source comprises a point light source. 20. Apparatus for inspecting a surface comprising: light source means for illuminating an extensive area of a surface of an object with divergent light; a retroreflective member comprising a large number of small retroreflective elements, said member being positionable such that light reflected from a surface illuminated with divergent light from said light source means is returned to the illuminated surface and re-reflected therefrom; and means for imaging said re-reflected light. 21. Apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said imaging means is positioned at a vantage point substantially on the axis of illumination of said surface. 22. Apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said imaging means is positioned at a vantage point displaced from the axis of illumination of said surface. 23. Apparatus according to claim 20 further comprising means for recording the imaged light. 24. Apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said divergent light source comprises a point light source. 25. A method of visually observing a geometric distortion in a surface comprising: illumiating an extensive area of a surface of an object; providing a retroreflective member comprising a large number of small retroreflective elements in a position such that light reflected from said illuminated surface is returned to the illuminated surface and re-reflected therefrom, said re-reflected light comprising bright or dark areas indicative of a geometric distortion in said surface; and visually observing light re-reflected from the illuminated surface to observe the surface and a geometric distortion therein. 26. A method according to claim 25 wherein the step of visually observing said surface is effected from a vantage point which is substantially on the axis of illumination of said surface. 27. A method according to claim 25 wherein the step of visually observing said surface is effected from a vantage point which is displaced from the axis of illumination of said surface. 28. A method according to claim 25 wherein said illuminating if effected with light from a divergent light source. 29. A method according to claim 28 wherein said divergent light source comprises a point light source. 30. Apparatus for rendering visible a geometric distortion in a surface comprising: means for illuminating an extensive area of a surface of an object; and a retroflective member comprising a large number of small retroreflective elements; said retroreflective member being positioned in a location such that light reflected from said illuminated surface is returned to the illuminated surface and re-reflected therefrom, said re-reflected light comprising visible bright or dark areas indicative, under visual observation, of a geometric distortion in said surface. 31. Apparatus according to claim 30 further comprising means for recording an image of said re-reflected light comprising said bright or dark areas. 32. Apparatus according to claim 31 wherein said image recording means is positioned at a vantage point which is substantially on the axis of illumination of said surface. 33. Apparatus according to claim 31 wherein said image recording means is positioned at a vantage point which is displaced from the axis of illumination of said surface. 34. Apparatus according to claim 30 wherein said illuminating means comprises a divergent light source. 35. Apparatus according to claim 34 wherein said divergent light source comprises a point light source. 36. A method of detecting a geometric distortion in a surface comprising: illuminating a surface of an object with light such that an area of such surface is illuminated, said area being substantially larger than a geometric distortion to be detected; providing a retroreflective member comprising a large number of small retroreflective elements in a position such that light reflected from said illuminated surface is returned to the illuminated surface and re-reflected therefrom; and detecting light re-reflected from the illuminated surface, said re-reflected light comprising detectable dark or bright areas indicative of a geometric distortion present in the illuminated surface. 37. A method according to claim 36 wherein said object comprises an automotive body panel and wherein substantially the entire area of said body panel is illuminated. 38. A method according to claim 36 wherein said illuminating is effected with a divergent light source. 39. A method according to claim 38 wherein said divergent light source comprises a point light source. 40. A method according to claim 36 wherein said detecting comprises visually observing said re-reflected light. 41. A method according to claim 36 wherein said detecting is effected from a vantage point displaced from the axis of illumination of said surface area. 42. A method according to claim 36 wherein said detecting comprises recording an image of said re-reflected light. 43. Apparatus for detecting a geometric distortion in a surface comprising: means for illuminating a surface of an object with light such that an area of said surface is illuminated, said area being substantially larger than the area of a geometric distortion to be detected; a retroreflective member comprising a large number of small retroreflective elements; said retroreflective member being positioned such that light reflected from said illuminated surface is returned to the illuminated surface and re-reflected therefrom; and means for detecting light re-reflected from the illuminated surface, said re-reflected light comprising detectable dark or bright areas indicative of a geometric distortion present in the illuminated surface. 44. Apparatus according to claim 43 wherein said illuminating means comprises a divergent light source. 45. Apparatus according to claim 44 wherein said divergent light source comprises a point light source. 46. Apparatus according to claim 43 wherein said detecting means is positioned at a location displaced from the axis of illumination of said surface. 47. Apparatus according to claim 43 wherein said detecting means comprises means for recording an image of said re-reflected light. 48. A method of inspecting a surface comprising: illuminating a surface of an object with light; providing a retroreflective member comprising a large number of small retroreflective elements in a position such that light reflected from said illuminated surface is returned to the illuminated surface and re-reflected therefrom; and detecting light re-reflected from the illuminated surface, said illumination being effected from a location displaced from the axis of light detection. 49. A method according to claim 48 wherein said detecting comprises visually observing said re-reflected light. 50. A method according to claim 48 wherein said illuminating is effected with a divergent light source. 51. A method according to claim 50 wherein said divergent light source comprises a point light source. 52. A method according to claim 48 wherein said detecting comprises imaging said re-reflected light and detecting dark or bright areas in the imaged light. 53. A method according to claim 52 further comprising recording the imaged light. 54. Apparatus for inspecting a surface comprising: means for illuminating a surface of an object with light; a retroreflective member comprising a large number of small retroreflective elements; that said retroreflective member being positioned such light reflected from said illuminated surface is returned to the illuminated surface and re-reflected therefrom; and means for detecting light re-reflected from the illuminated surface; a location said illuminating means being positioned at displaced from the axis of light detection. 55. Apparatus according to claim 54 wherein said illuminating means comprises a divergent light source. 56. Apparatus according to claim 55 wherein said divergent light source comprises a point light source. 57. Apparatus according to claim 54 wherein said detecting means comprises means for imaging said re-reflected light and for detecting dark or bright areas in the imaged light. 58. Apparatus according to claim 57 further comprising means for recording the imaged light. 