A micro-controller system for recognizing and identifying same or dissimilar parts being transferred along the track of a parts feeder, such as a bowl feeder, as well as checking the part orientation, and sorting the oriented parts in a predetermined repetitive sequence. Part recognition and sequencing is programmable upon user demand. Part recognition includes a part silhouette recognizer comprised of a set of light sensors coupled to an apertured grid located in a part feeding track. The silhouette image of each part to be sorted is first digitized and stored in the memory of the micro-controller in a position associated with an identifying part number. Also, the sequence of the various parts is stored in the memory of the micro-controller. Thereafter, as the parts are being fed over the grid, each part is compared against a corresponding stored image in the proper position of the sequence with the wrong or improperly oriented parts being rejected by being blown off the track by an air jet directed across the feeder track while proper part recognition will result in a turn off of the air jet permitting the part to pass and be delivered to a feeder output station.
Claims We claim: 1. A programmable parts feeding system for feeding parts from a mixed batch in a programmed sequence comprising: means for moving parts along a predetermined travel path; means for rejecting a wrong or improperly oriented part from said travel path; part silhouette recognizer means in said travel path and including a source of radiation, an apertured grid having a hole pattern which is operable to determine both part orientation and identification of a mixed batch of parts traveling along said travel path, and radiation sensing means coupled to said hole pattern for sensing the shadow image information of a part located on or traversing said grid; controller means operable in accordance with a stored program and having memory means for storing part information therein, said controller means being coupled to said radiation sensing means and said rejecting means, and further including means for implementing a plurality of user selectable operational modes including an image mode for sensing the respective images of a plurality of properly oriented different types of parts to be fed out of the feeding system as well as assigning each part type a number and a portion of said memory means and thereafter storing sensed part image information of each part type at a respective portion of said memory means, a sequence mode for programming a predetermined positional sequence of different types of parts desired from said mixed batch followed by storing a part number sequence in said memory means, and a run mode to thereafter compare the sensed image information of parts traversing said grid with the stored image information of a desired part type in the order of said sequence to deactivate said rejecting means when a predetermined image match occurs during part feeding to permit a predetermined sequence of parts to be fed out of the parts feeding system in a programmed order and means for reactivating said rejecting means after the passage of the required properly oriented part past said rejecting means. 2. The system as defined by claim 1 wherein said plurality of operator selectable operational modes includes a test mode for terminating said image mode, when selected, whereby said part image information for a particular part is stored in said respective portion of said memory means. 3. The system as defined by claim 1 wherein said plurality of user selectable operational modes further includes a timer mode for determining and storing in said memory means the respective time interval for each properly oriented part type stored in said memory means to pass said rejecting means. 4. The system as defined by claim 3 wherein said plurality of operator selectable operational modes includes a test mode for terminating said timer mode, when selected. 5. The system as defined by claim 3 wherein said plurality of operator selectable operational modes includes a test mode for terminating both said image mode and said timer modes whereby said part image information and said time interval for a particular part type is respectively stored in said respective portion of said memory means. 6. The system as defined by claim 5 and wherein said test mode, when terminating said image mode, is operable to cause a mask for said particular part to be generated and stored in said memory means. 7. The system as defined by claim 6 wherein said test mode, when terminating said timer mode, is operable to retrieve the mask generated for that particular part, to apply said mask to sensed image information by selectively masking unused or unnecessary radiation sensing means of said radiation sensing means, generating therefrom a masked image, comparing the stored image for said part with the said masked image, and when an image match occurs, determining and storing said time interval of part travel past said rejecting means. 8. The system as defined by claim 6 wherein said run mode is operable to retrieve the previously generated mask for each desired part in the order of said sequence and mask unused or unnecessary radiation sensing means of said radiation sensing means in accordance with said mask to generate a masked image of parts traversing said grid for comparison with the stored image of the desired part in order to establish an image match for deactivating said rejecting means. 9. The system as defined by claim 5 wherein said means for implementing said plurality of user selectable operational modes includes first switch means for assigning each part type a part number and a corresponding portion of memory in said memory means, second switch means utilized in conjunction with said first switch means for programming said positional sequence into said memory means, and third switch means for selecting a desired operating mode including said image mode, said timer mode, said test mode, and said sequence mode. 10. The system as defined by claim 9 wherein said second and third switch means are additionally operable for selecting a run mode. 11. The system as defined by claim 9 wherein said third switch means is operable to generate respective interrupt signals, said controlling means being responsive to said interrupt signals to branch to the operational mode selected by activation of said third switch means. 12. A method of feeding a mixed batch of different types of parts in a programmed sequence from a parts feeding system, under the control of a controller; comprising the steps of: moving said mixed batch of parts along a travel path including imaging means for sensing both the orientation and identification of said parts; assigning each part type a part number and a portion of a memory; sensing, one at a time, the respective shadow images of a plurality of properly oriented different types of parts to be fed out of the feeding system in an image mode, and storing sensed image information of each part in a respective portion of said memory; programming a predetermined positional sequence of parts desired from said mixed batch in a sequence mode by entering and storing a desired part number sequence in said memory; retrieving the stored image information of a desired part type in the order of said programmed sequence; comparing image information of the sensed image of parts traversing said travel path with the stored image information of said desired part type; and ejecting an improperly oriented or undesired part type from said travel path unless an image match occurs between the sensed image and the retrieved image information while passing a properly oriented and desired part type past an ejection point to an output station in a run mode. 13. The method of claim 12 and additionally including the step of determining the respective time interval for each part type to pass said ejection point on said travel path and storing the time interval in said respective portion of memory for that part type in a timer mode; and retrieving the time interval of a desired part type in the order of said programmed sequence in said run mode for passing a properly oriented and desired part type to an output station. 14. The method of claim 12 and additionally including the steps of sensing and storing the operational state of said system when electrical power is removed and thereafter restoring the same operational state when power is subsequently restored. 15. The method of claim 12 and additionally including the steps of selectively terminating the image mode and the timer mode and performing a system testing procedure in a test mode. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of terminating said image mode for each of said plurality of different types of parts in the test mode includes the steps of: generating and storing a mask of unused or unnecessary image sensing elements for the respective type of part desired to be fed past said ejection point in said sequence; and storing said mask in said respective portion of memory. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said step of performing a system testing procedure further includes the steps of: sensing image information of a selected part type of said plurality of part types; retrieving the mask stored for said part type; applying said mask to said sensed image information and generating a masked image of said part type; comparing the stored image with said masked image and in the event a match occurs, deactivating ejection means for the time interval of travel past said ejection means for said part type and thereafter again enabling the ejection means. 18. The method as defined by claim 16 wherein said run mode further includes the steps of: retrieving the mask generated for the desired part number in the order of said sequence; applying said mask to sensed image information by masking unused or unnecessary radiating sensing elements and generating a masked image of the respective parts traversing said travel path; and comparing the stored image information for the desired part at a particular sequence position with said masked image generated and ejecting parts from said travel path unless an image match occurs. 19. The method as defined by claim 12 wherein said step of programming a predetermined positional sequence comprises the further steps of: selecting a sequence position; determining which part number of said plurality of parts is to be fed out of said system for said sequence position; checking said part number to ensure that it is a valid part number; and in the event that a valid part number is present, storing said part number at said sequence position. 20. The method as defined by claim 18 and additionally including the steps of assigning a terminal sequence position indicating the end of a sequence, and when encountered signalling selection of said run mode. 21. The system as defined by claim 1 and additionally including means for generating an interrupt signal coupled to said controller means in the event of the loss of power whereupon said controller means operates to save the current operating state of said system. 22. The system as defined by claim 1 wherein said controller means comprises digital controller means and said means for implementing a plurality of user selectable operational modes includes mode select switch means, and additionally including: a multi-line digital bus coupled to said digital controller means; vision output port means coupled between said radiation sensing means and said digital controller means via said bus; mode input port means coupled between said mode switch means and said digital controller means via said bus; second memory means for storing said program; address latch means coupled between said digital controller means and said second memory via said system bus; said second memory/being further coupled back to said digital controller means via said bus; output port means for controlling said rejecting means coupled to said digital controller means via said digital bus; and port selector means coupled to said digital controller means and being selectively operated in accordance with controller output signals for enabling the vision output port means, the mode input port means, and said output port means. 23. The system as defined by claim 1 wherein said hole pattern of said grid comprises a predetermined pattern for generating a low resolution digital image and having a relatively high discriminatory ability for a variety of part types and wherein said radiating sensing means comprises a respective light detecting circuit coupled to each aperture of said grid. 24. The system as defined by claim 1 wherein said travel path comprises a parts feeding track and wherein said means for rejecting a wrong or improperly oriented part comprises an air jet directed across said track and which is operable to blow a wrong or improperly oriented part from said track. 