A testing mechanism is disclosed for incorporation with the gripping fingers of a robot arm, to enable the real time testing of a device under test after it is picked up by the grippers. The robot arm has opposed fingers mounted thereon for transverse clamping of the sides of the device under test, which can be a semiconductor module. Mounted to the robot arm is a test head which can be brought into electrical contact with the pins of the device under test when the device has been picked up by the arm. Test signals supplied through the test head will conduct real time testing of the device while it is being transported by the robot arm from the pick-up point to one of several destination receptacles. The identity of the destination receptacle into which the tested device will be deposited, will depend upon the results of the real time test being carried out while the device is being transported.
Claims We claim: 1. An in-transit electrical device tester and sorter, comprising: a holding mechanism mounted on a robot arm for selectively holding an electrical device to be tested; a test head mounted on said robot arm independent of and proximate to said holding mechanism, for selectively making electrical contact with said electrical device; a tester operatively connected to said test head for providing test signals to said test head for testing said electrical device and for receiving test result signals from said electrical device in response to said test signals; a robot arm control mechanism having an input connected to said tester and an output connected to said robot arm, for controlling the holding of said electrical device by said holding mechanism and controlling the translation of said arm to a first destination or a second destination in response to an output from said tester indicating whether said electrical device has a first test result state or a second test result state, respectively; whereby said electrical device can be tested during the translation of said device from a pick-up point to either said first destination or said second destination. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said holding mechanism is a mechanical gripper. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said holding mechanism is a vacuum chuck. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said test head has a plurality of contactor pins thereon for electrically contacting electrodes on said device. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said electrical device is an integrated circuit having electrodes associated therewith which are electrically contacted by said contactor pins of said test head. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said test head has a socket thereon with a plurality of electrically conductive recesses for electrically contacting connection pins on said device. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said electrical device is an integrated circuit module having a plurality of connection pins mounted thereon which matingly engage said electrically conductive recesses of said test head. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said tester tests said electrical device for one of a plurality of N test results and there are a plurality of N destinations of said robot arm, one of said destinations being selected in response to said test results, where N is greater than or equal to two. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said electrical device is an integrated circuit module. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said electrical device is a resistor. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said electrical device is a capacitor. 12. An in-transit electrical device tester and sorter, comprising: a robot arm having a motor mounted thereto with a control input, for undergoing mechanical motion in response to a fourth control signal applied to said control input; a gripping mechanism mounted on said robot arm and including a control input, for selectively gripping and releasing an electrical device to be tested in response to first control signals at said control input thereof; a mechanical actuator mounted on said robot arm and including a control input; a test head mounted on said mechanical actuator on said robot arm and adapted for relative motion with respect to said gripping mechanism in response to a second control signal being applied to said mechanical actuator, for selectively, electrically contacting said test head to said electrical device; a tester operatively connected to said test head and including a control input for providing test signals to said test head in response to a third control signal, for testing said electrical device and for receiving test response signals from said electrical device in response to said test signals and providing result signals at a result output in response to said response signals; a controller having an input connected to said result output of said tester and having respective outputs connected to said control input of said robot arm motor, connected to said control input of said tester, connected to said control input of said gripping mechanism and connected to said control input of said mechanical actuator; said controller transmitting a first first control signal to said gripping mechanism, for gripping said electrical device; said controller transmitting said second control signal to said mechanical actuator, for selectively imparting relative motion to said test head for selectively contacting said test head to said electrical device; said controller transmitting said third control signal to said tester, for testing said electrical device by said tester; said tester outputting said result signals to said controller in response to receiving said test response signals from said electrical device; said controller transmitting said fourth control signal to said robot arm motor, for imparting mechanical motion to said robot arm while said tester is testing said electrical device, and stopping said motion of said robot arm at a first destination or a second destination in response to said result signals from said tester indicating whether said electrical device has a first test result state or a second test result state, respectively; said controller transmitting a second first control signal to said gripping mechanism, to release said electrical device at the selected destination; whereby said electrical device can be tested during the transportation of said device from a pick-up point to either said first destination or said second destination. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said test head includes a plurality of contactor pins mounted thereon for electrically contacting corresponding electrodes on said electrical device. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said electrical device is an integrated circuit having electrodes associated therewith which are electrically contacted by said contactor pins of said test head. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said test head has a socket thereon with a plurality of electrically conductive recesses for electrically contacting connection pins mounted on said electrical device. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said electrical device is an integrated circuit module having a plurality of connection pins mounted thereon which matingly engage said electrically conductive recesses of said test head. 17. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said tester tests said electrical device for one of a plurality of N test results and there are a plurality of N destinations of said robot arm, one of said destinations being selected in response to said test results, where N is greater than or equal to two. 18. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said electrical device is an integrated circuit module. 19. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said electrical device is a resistor. 20. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said electrical device is a capacitor. 21. A method for in-transit testing and sorting of electrical devices, comprising the steps of: transmitting from a controller a first first control signal to a gripping mechanism on a robot arm, for gripping an electrical device to be tested; transmitting from said controller a second control signal to a mechanical actuator on said robot arm, for selectively imparting relative motion to a test head for selectively, electrically contacting said test head to said electrical device; transmitting from said controller a third control signal to a tester, for testing said electrical device by said tester; said tester outputting result signals to said controller in response to receiving test response signals from said electrical device; transmitting from said controller a fourth control signal to a robot arm motor, for imparting mechanical motion to said robot arm while said tester is testing said electrical device, and stopping said motion of said robot arm at a first destination or a second destination in response to said result signals from said tester indicating whether said electrical device has a first test result state or a second test result state, respectively; transmitting from said controller a second first control signal to said gripping mechanism, to release said electrical device at the selected destination; whereby said electrical device can be tested during the transportation of said device from a pick-up point to either said first destination or said second destination. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said tester tests said electrical device for one of a plurality of N test results and there are a plurality of N destinations of said robot arm, one of said destinations being selected in response to said test results, where N is greater than or equal to two. 