Two opposing fingers of a robot hand are each provided with an array of optical devices which are capable of being in optical communication with one another through the gap between the fingers. One finger is provided with an array of light emitters and the other is provided with an array of light recepetors. By taking advantage of the motion of the robot hand and the small size of the optical devices, the shape of an object between the fingers can be detected by using at least one linear set, and preferably at least two linear sets, of devices in each array. Illustratively, the linear sets form a T-shaped array or a U-shaped array and are disposed along the edges of the fingers. In one embodiment the emitters are GRIN rod lenses coupled through a fiber cable to a light source, and the receptors are also GRIN rod lenses coupled through a fiber cable to a camera system. A manufacturing method utilizing such a sensor to identify the shape of objects is also described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising a robot having a hand which includes movable fingers for inspecting and/or handling an object, an array of optical emitters on one of said fingers and an array of optical receptors on another of said fingers, said arrays capable of being in optical communication with one another, said array of optical emitters including at least one linear set of emitter devices for generating collimated optical beams, means for causing said hand to position said object between said fingers and for moving said hand so that said array of emitters scans said object, thereby generating an image of said object from said array of receptors, and means responsive to said image for controlling the position of said hand. 2. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein said array of emitters includes at least two linear sets of emitter devices arranged at an angle to one another. 3. The robotic system of claim 2 wherein said array of receptors also includes at least two linear sets of receptor devices arranged at an angle to one another so as to place said emitter devices and receptor devices in one-to-one correspondence with one another. 4. The robot of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein said at least one linear set of devices comprises a plurality of linear sets, at least one of which is located along the periphery of said fingers. 5. The robot of claim 4 wherein said fingers each have a surface which is used to contact said object and said arrays are recessed from said surface. 6. The robot of claim 5 wherein said fingers are adapted to that said surfaces are maintained essentially parallel to one another during the motion of said fingers. 7. The robot of claim 5 further including a light source and a light detector, and wherein said emitter devices comprise GRIN lenses coupled to said light source and said receptor devices comprise GRIN rod lenses coupled to said light detector, said GRIN rod lenses being adapted to generate substantially collimated parallel light beams which pass between said arrays, thereby producing from said array of receptors optical signals corresponding to the shape of said object when said object is positioned between said fingers. 8. The robot of claim 4 wherein said linear sets are oriented to form a T-shaped pattern. 9. The robot of claim 4 wherein said linear sets are oriented to form a U-shaped pattern. 10. A manufacturing method, which includes a process of handling and/or inspecting an object, said process comprising the steps of: causing the hand of a robot to move to position an object between its fingers one of which includes a first array of light emitters and another of which includes a second array of light receptors which are capable of being in optical communication with said emitters, said first array comprising at least one linear set of emitters, moving the hand so that the array of emitters scans the object, thereby generating an image of the object from the array of receptors, and controlling the position of the robot and/or the handling of the object in response to said image. 11. A manufacturing method, which includes the process of handling an object, said process comprising the steps of: causing a robot to move an object between an array of optical emitters and an array of optical receptors, said arrays capable of being in optical communication with one another, said array of optical emitters including at least one linear set of emitter devices, thereby generating an image of said object from said array of receptors, and controlling said robot in response to said image. 12. Dynamic optical sensing apparatus comprising an array of optical emitters and an array of optical receptors capable of being in optical communication with one another, said array of optical emitters including at least one linear set of emitter devices for generating collimated optical beams, means for positioning an object between said arrays and for moving said object so that said array of emitters scans said object, thereby generating an image of said object from said array of receptors, and means responsive to said image for controlling and positioning and moving means. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said array of emitters includes at least two linear sets of emitter devices arranged at an angle to one another. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said array of receptors also includes at least two linear sets of receptor devices arranged at an angle to one another so as to place said emitter devices and receptor devices in one-to-one correspondence with one another. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 further including a light source and a light detector, and wherein said emitter devices comprise GRIN rod lenses coupled to said light source and said receptor devices comprise GRIN rod lenses coupled to said light detector, said GRIN rod lenses being adapted to generate substantially collimated parallel light beams which pass between said arrays, thereby producing from said array of receptors optical signals corresponding to the shape of said object when said object is moved between said arrays. 16. The robot of claim 14 wherein said linear sets are oriented to form a T-shaped pattern. 17. The robot of claim 14 wherein said linear sets are oriented to form a U-shaped pattern. 