A multiple-function hand useful in automated laboratory operations, particularly liquid transfer operations. A gripper and a piston operated syringe are made compatible on a single function by mounting such that their mechanical actuating mechanisms are operated parallel to one another, while the operating vector of the syphon, i.e., the direction of piston movement and direction of gripper lift are at right angles one to the other.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multiple-function hand for rotatable attachment to a robot arm, said hand comprising at least two tools thereon, at least a first of said tools being mounted for normal use at an angle substantially normal to the angle at which a said second tool is mounted for use, and wherein each said tool is operably connected to two linear-operating means mounted in said hand, said linear-operating means being mounted parallel to one another and wherein said first tool is a gripper means and said second tool is a syringe. 2. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein each said linear operating means is operated by motors and in connection with an independent rotary-potentiometer, position-sensing means and wherein said potentiometer associated with said syringe means has an angular capability of more than 720 angular degrees. 3. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein each said linear-operating means is a rack and pinion means for actuating said tools. 4. Apparatus as in claim 3 wherein one said rack and pinion means is wholly contained within the housing of said hand and another rack and pinion means extends outwardly from said housing. 5. Apparatus as defined in claim 3 wherein each said rack and pinion means is operated by motors and in connection with an independent rotary-potentiometer, position-sensing means and wherein said potentiometer associated with said syringe means has an angular capability of more than 720 angular degrees. 6. A multiple-function hand for rotatable attachment to a robot arm comprising (a) a syringe tool and means to operate said syringe tool mounted on said hand and (b) gripper means and means to operate said gripper mounted on said hand with gripping surfaces adapted for movement in the same direction as is a barrel of said syringe tool. 