An apparatus for maintaining electronic component pin alignment includes a support member having an adjacent lead shear, a stationary nest, a printed circuit board and a component feeder. A component in the component feeder includes a chip having a plurality of leads. The leads have a first end connected to the chip and a second free end. A movable lead guide engages the first end of the leads. A robot is mounted adjacent the support member for picking up the component from the component feeder, inserting the component into the stationary nest moving the component relative to the stationary nest for moving the lead guide from the first end of the leads toward the second free end of the leads, moving the component from the stationary nest to the shear for shearing the second free end of the leads, and moving the component from the shear to the printed circuit board and urging the leads into corresponding holes formed in the printed circuit board. The stationary nest includes a planar member having an elongated slot formed therein. The elongated slot has an open end, two side walls and an end wall. The robot moves the component into the elongated slot through the open end so that the side walls and the end wall are between the chip and the lead guide.
Claims Having thus described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for maintaining electronic component pin alignment comprising: a support member; a lead shear mounted adjacent said support member; a stationary nest mounted adjacent said support member; a printed circuit board mounted adjacent said support member; a component feeder mounted adjacent said support member; a component in said component feeder, said component being a chip including a plurality of leads having a first end connected to said chip and a second free end, and having a movable lead guide engaging said first end of said leads; and robotic means mounted adjacent said support member for picking up said component from said component feeder, inserting said component in said stationary nest, moving said component relative to said stationary nest for moving said lead guide from said first end of said leads toward said second free end of said leads, moving said component from said stationary nest to said shear for shearing said second free end of said leads, and moving said component from said shear to said printed circuit board and urging said leads into corresponding holes formed in said printed circuit board. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said robotic means includes a first robotic arm and a second robotic arm. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said first robotic arm releases said component in said shear and said second robotic arm moves said component from said shear to said printed circuit board. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said stationary nest includes a planar member having an elongated slot formed therein. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said elongated slot has an open end, two side walls and an end wall. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said robotic means moves said component into said elongated slot through said open end, said side walls and said end wall being between said chip and said lead guide. 7. An apparatus for maintaining electronic component pin alignment comprising: a support member; a lead shear mounted adjacent said support member; a stationary nest mounted adjacent said support member, said stationary nest including an elongated slot formed therein; a printed circuit board mounted adjacent said support member; a component feeder mounted adjacent said support member; a component in said component feeder, said component being a chip including a plurality of leads having a first end connected to said chip and a second free end, and having a movable lead guide engaging said first end of said leads; and a robotic member having a first robotic arm and a second robotic arm, said first robotic arm movable between said component feeder, said slot formed in said stationary nest and said lead shear, said second robotic arm movable between said lead shear and said printed circuit board. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said elongated slot has an open end, two side walls and an end wall. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said first robotic arm moves said component into said elongated slot through said open end, said side walls and said end wall being between said chip and said lead guide. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said shear positions said lead guide a precise distance from said second free ends. 11. A method for automatically mounting an electronic component in a printed circuit board including the steps of: robitically picking up said component from a feeder mounted on a support; moving said component robotically to a nest mounted on said support, said nest including a slot formed therein having sidewalls and an endwall of a construction sufficient for restraining a lead guide on pins of said component during robotic movement of said component so that said lead guide is urged from a first end of said pins toward a second free end of said pins; robotically moving said component to a shear mounted on said support for shearing said free ends of said pins; and robotically moving said component to said printed circuit board and urging said sheared, free ends of said pins into corresponding holes in said printed circuit board. 