A system for automatically inserting the leads of electrical components into circuit boards is disclosed. In the preferred embodiment, an electrical component is acquired by the robot. The leads of the component have been trimmed and preformed such that they are substantially parallel with respect to each other with the leads differing in length. The robot positions the component at a fixed location relative to the axis of the robot and within the view of an optical sensor such as a TV camera. The sensor determines the location of each of the leads relative to a fixed location. A first rotary motion rotates the component about a selected axis of the robot through a predetermined angle and a second measurement is made. A second rotation positions the component 180.degree. from the original position and a third measurement is made. Since the angles through which the component is rotated are known, the distance or radius of rotation of each of the leads can be calculated using the known axis of rotation and the radius of rotation, the precise location of each of the leads with respect to the robot is calculated. From the results of these calculations, the longest lead is partially inserted in the desired hole in a circuit board. The component is repositioned, as necessary, for insertion of the second longest lead. This process is repeated to insert all of the leads of the component.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic system for assembling electronic circuit boards, comprising in combination: (a) a multi-axis robot including a gripper mechanism for holding a component, said component including at least a plurality of substantially parallel leads, each of said leads having a different length, each of said leads adapted for inserting into predetermined opening in said circuit board; (b) means for controlling said robot, thereby causing said gripper to acquire said component and for selectively positioning said component relative to said robot; (c) optical sensor means for producing a plurality of differing images of said leads and position calculating means utilizing said differing images for determining the position of each of said leads relative to said robot; (d) support means for supporting said circuit board at a known location relative to said robot; (e) control means for operating said robot to individually insert each of said plurality of leads into said circuit board. 2. A robotic system for assembling electronic circuit boards, comprising in combination: (a) a multi-axis robotic including a gripper mechanism for holding a component, said component including a plurality of trimmed and preformed leads, each of said plurality of leads adapted for inserting individually into individual openings in said circuit board; (b) optical sensor means including a TV camera for sensing said plurality of trimmed and preformed lead and for determining the position of each of said plurality of leads relative to said robot; (c) support means for supporting said circuit board in a fixed position relative to said robot; (d) control means for selectively positioning said gripper mechanism relative to said circuit board to insert said plurality of trimmed and preformed lead into an opening in said circuit board. 3. A robotic system in accordance with claim 2, further including: (a) means for selectively rotating said component such that said TV camera produces at least three differing images of said plurality of leads; and (b) arithmetic means for calculating the displacement of said plurality of leads from a reference location using each of said TV images. 4. A robotic system in accordance with claim 3 further including back-lighting means for illuminating said lead. 5. A robotic system in accordance with claim 4 wherein said component includes a plurality of trimmed and preformed leads and further including: (a) control means for partially inserting a first lead of said component into a first hole in said circuit board; (b) control means for repositioning said component and partially inserting a second lead of said component into a second hole in said circuit board; (c) control means for sequentially partially inserting the remainder of the leads of said component; and (d) control means for repositioning said component to fully insert all the leads of said component. 6. A method of individually determining the location of a plurality of leads of an electronic component with respect to a robotically operated gripper, as said component is held by said robotically operated gripper, comprising the steps of: (a) operating a robot to position said component within the view of an optical sensor means; (b) operating said robot to rotate said component about a fixed axis and operating said optical sensor means to produce at least three images of the leads of said component; and (c) using said at least three images of said leads, calculate the displacement of said leads from a predetermined reference point. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein at least two of said images are angularly separated by substantially 180.degree.. 8. The method of claim 7 further including the steps of: (a) trimming said leads such that all the leads have a different length; (b) utilizing the length of each of said leads to uniquely identify each of said leads in each of said images. 