A toy assembly that can be converted into either a toy gun or robotic humanoid assembly is provided. A handle member can be reconfigured to simulate the robotic legs, while the gun barrel member can be reconfigured to simulate the robotic arms. A trigger frame assembly can be positioned adjacent the handle member and the gun barrel member when simulating the configuration of a gun or can be rotated when simulating a robot. The configuration of a toy gun can fire actual pellets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A combination toy gun and robotic-humanoid assembly that can be reconfigured from one configuration to another configuration at the option of the user comprising: a handle member; a gun barrel member movably mounted above the handle member; a trigger assembly positioned adjacent the handle member and beneath the gun barrel member, the handle member, gun barrel member and trigger assembly being permanently and movably connected together and simulating the configuration of a gun in a first position; and a robotic head member connected to the gun barrel member, the handle member being configured to simulate the robotic legs of a humanoid robot when moved to a second position, and at least a portion of the gun barrel member being configured to siumulate a robotic arm of a humanoid robot when moved to a second position with the robotic head positioned adjacent the robot arm and above the robotic legs wherein a toy robotic humanoid assembly can be provided in the second position by reconfiguration of the toy gun configuration. 2. A toy gun/robotic-humanoid assembly comprising: a trunk of the toy robotic humanoid which also constitutes the central portion of a gunbarrel of the toy gun when the assembly is folded; a head of the toy robotic humanoid which is provided on the upper side of the trunk and is housed within the trunk when the assembly is folded; right and left arms of the toy robotic humanoid which are rotatably and extendably mounted on the right and left sides of the trunk and constitutes the front and rear portions of the gunbarrel of the toy gun, respectively, when the assembly is folded; a waist unit of the toy robotic humanoid which is pivotally provided at the lower end of the trunk and constitutes a trigger portion of the toy gun when the assembly is folded; right and left legs of the toy robotic humanoid which are pivotally mounted on the lower end of the waist unit and constitutes a grip of the toy gun when the assembly is folded; and a pair of feet of the toy robotic humanoid which are pivotally provided at each lower end of the legs and are folded into the grip of the toy gun when the assembly is folded; wherein the toy gun/robotic-humanoid assembly forms a toy gun when folded and is reconfigured into a toy robotic humanoid when unfolded. 3. The invention of the claim 2 wherein one of the arms has a muzzle which is formed so that a toy bullet can fit therein, and a lever device which locks the toy bullet so that the bullet can be propelled by an external operation, and wherein an interlocking device actuates the lever device while interlocking with the trigger device, is provided between the lever device and trigger device. 4. A combination toy gun and robot assembly that can be reconfigured from one configuration to another configuration at the option of the user comprising: a handle member; a gun barrel member movably mounted above the handle member; a trigger assembly positioned adjacent the handle member and beneath the gun barrel member, the handle member, gun barrel member and trigger assembly simulating the configuration of a gun in a first position, and a robotic head member connected to the gun barrel member, the handle member being configured to simulate the robotic legs of a humanoid robot when moved to a second position, and portions of the gun barrel member being configured to simulate the robotic arms of a humanoid robot when moved to a second position with the robotic head positioned adjacent the robotic arms and above the robotic legs wherein a toy robotic humanoid assembly can be provided in the second position by reconfiguration of the toy gun configuration. 5. The invention of claim 4 wherein the handle member is bifurcated into a pair of leg members. 6. The invention of claim 5 wherein each leg member includes a pivotal foot member that can be extended or retracted. 7. The invention of claim 5 wherein each leg member includes an upper and lower leg portion that is relatively slidable to enable one of a compact handle configuration and an extended robot leg configuration. 8. The invention of claim 7 wherein the upper leg portions are pivotally mounted adjacent the trigger assembly to permit rotation of the leg members wherein one side of each leg member has a gun handle configuration, while the other side provides a compatible robotic configuration. 9. The invention of claim 4 wherein the gun barrel member can be bifurcated to provide the respective robotic arms. 10. The invention of claim 9 wherein the bifurcated portions of the gun barrel member are pivotally connected to permit rotation to simulate the positioning of robotic arms. 11. The invention of claim 4 wherein the robotic head is mounted adjacent the gun barrel member. 12. The invention of claim 4 further including a spring member mounted in the gun barrel member, a locking lever mounted to restrain the spring member when compressed and a trigger rod which interconnects the locking lever with the trigger assembly to permit a user to release the spring member wherein a projectile can be shot by the spring member from the gun configuration. 13. The invention of claim 12 wherein a portion of the locking lever extends externally of the gun barrel member and can be activated to release the spring member independent of the trigger assembly in a toy robot configuration to also release a projectile. 14. The invention of claim 11 wherein the robotic head is spring biased and is mounted to be held in a biased position by the gun barrel member. 15. The invention of claim 4 wherein the handle member, gun barrel member and trigger assembly are configured to simulate a Browning M 1910 pistol in the first position. 16. A combination toy gun and robot assembly that can be reconfigured from one configuration to another configuration at the option of the user comprising: a handle member; a gun barrel member having a longitudinal axis movably mounted above the handle member; a trigger assembly positioned adjacent the handle member and beneath the gun barrel member, the handle member, gun barrel member and trigger assembly simulating the configuration of a gun in a first position, the trigger assembly and handle member being pivotally connected to a portion of the gun barrel member and rotatably about an axis traverse to the longitudinal axis of the gun barrel member, and a robotic head member connected to the gun barrel member, the handle member being configured to bifurcate into a first and second robotic leg of a humanoid robot when pivoted to a second position, and portions of the gun barrel member being configured to simulate the robotic arms of a humanoid robot when moved to a second position with the robotic head positioned adjacent the robotic arms and above the robotic legs wherein a toy robotic humanoid assembly can be provided in the second position by reconfiguration of the toy gun configuration. 17. The invention of claim 16 wherein the gun barrel member is bifurcated into a first and second member to provide the respective robotic arms. 18. The invention of claim 17 wherein the birfurcated first and second arm members are pivotally connected to permit rotation to simulate the positioning of robotic arms. 19. The invention of claim 18 wherein each leg member includes a pivoted foot member. 20. The invention of claim 18 further including a spring member mounted in the gun barrel member, a locking lever mounted to restrain the spring member when compressed and a trigger rod which interconnects the locking lever with the trigger assembly to permit a user to release the spring member wherein a projectile can be shot by the spring member from the gun configuration. 