A spatial imaging system includes a variable focus lens for scanning a visual field. The depth of field of the lens system is narrow relative to the range of the field to be scanned so that visual in-focus image planes of the entire field can be obtained as the focal plane is scanned in range. Detection of in-focus objects may be accomplished by converting the scanned image of each plane into electrical signals which can be filtered or otherwise discriminated to identify in-focus areas. The individual image planes may be stored in memory and processed to provide information of interest regarding the objects within the field of view. Such information may include identification, detection, color, shape, etc. and it exists in machine-usable form.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fully automatic method of providing spatial imaging information relating to objects in a field of view, comprising: continually varying the focus of a variable focus lens system to scan said field at a predetermined rate thereby to provide a multiplicity of image planes covering the scanned field, said lens system having a depth of field shallow relative to the field to be scanned, and detecting in-focus images of said objects as said field is scanned; and determining the location of each of the in-focus images relative to the entire field of view as said field is being scanned to provide three-dimensional spatial imaging information. 2. The method of providing spatial imaging information according to claim 1, further including the step of identifying at least one of the objects in the field of view being scanned based on said in-focus images. 3. A method of providing spatial imaging information according to claim 2, further including the step of identifying the location of said one object within said field of view based on the determined location of the corresponding in-focus image. 4. A method of providing spatial imaging information according to claim 1, further including the step of processing the in-focus images to provide image data regarding said objects. 5. A method of providing spatial imaging information according to claim 4, wherein said processing step includes the step of storing in memory at least the in-focus images and information identifying the positions of such in-focus images relative to the field. 6. A method of providing spatial imaging information according to claim 4, wherein the rate at which said field is scanned is variable. 7. A method of providing spatial imaging information according to claim 4, wherein the depth of field of said lens system is variable. 8. A method of providing spatial imaging information according to claim 4, wherein only selected in-focus characteristics of said objects are detected. 9. Apparatus for providing spatial imaging information relating to objects in a three-dimensional field, comprising: a lens system having a depth of field shallow relative to the range of said field; means for continually varying the focus of said lens system to scan said field in range, means responsive to said lens system for detecting each of the image planes scanned by said lens system containing an in-focus image, said means for detecting operating continuously as said field is scanned in range; and means responsive to said detecting means for determining the positions of said image planes relative to said field of view to provide three-dimensional spatial imaging information. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9, further including image processing means responsive to said detecting means for detecting and/or identifying pre-selected characteristics of the objects within said field. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said means for detecting in-focus portions of images comprises a scanned detector for converting an image into electrical signals varying in proportion to the image at sequential points on a scan path and signal processing means for discriminating between signals from in-focus portions and signals from out-of-focus portions. 12. Apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said means for determining includes an analog-to-digital converter operating upon said signals from in-focus portions of images to produce digital signals, means for storing said digital signals and means for analyzing such stored signals. 13. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said means for storing comprises a memory for storing said digital signals in memory planes corresponding to at least those image planes of said lens system which contain in-focus information. 14. Apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said signal processing means comprises frequency selective means. 15. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said frequency selective means includes a rise time detector and filter. 16. Apparatus according to claim 15, further including means for changing the frequency characteristics of said rise time detector and filter to thereby vary the sensitivity of the system to in-focus images. 17. Apparatus according to claim 10, further including means for varying the rate which the focus of said lens system is varied. 18. Apparatus according to claim 10, further including means for varying the depth of field of said lens system. 19. Apparatus according to claim 10, including optical pre-processor means in conjunction with said lens system and said video sensor for selecting optically processing characteristics of said objects to be processed by said image processor. 20. Apparatus according to claim 10, including means for varying the focal length of said lens system. 21. A three-dimensional vision system comprising: a variable focus imaging lens system having a shallow depth of field, focus control means connected to said lens system and focusing said system at successive focal planes of successively different ranges, a video scanner responsive to said lens system for producing electrical video signals having amplitudes related to light intensity of each image produced by said lens system at said successive focal planes, a high pass filter connected to receive said electrical video signals and passing only high frequency components thereof representing edges and texture of in-focus portions of each image, and computer means connected to receive edge and texture information of said high frequency signals and connected to said focus control means for correlating said edge information to the range of successive focal planes for producing a three-dimensional representation of a field of view of said lens system. 