An articulated joint, for example in a robot arm, has a braking device which can brake movement in the joint when desired, so that forces transmitted across the joint are not transmitted through the mechanism which moves the arm. The braking device has an annular expandable, for example tubular, element which is positioned between concentric facing surfaces on either side of the joint, i.e. on the arm and on the part of the robot to which the arm is articulated. Hydraulic pressure can be applied to the expandable element to cause it to expand and lock together the concentric surfaces.
Claims I claim: 1. A locking device for locking up a movable arm assembly such as a robot arm assembly device comprising: a longitudinal extending movable arm element having a first end, a support extending around the first end of the movable arm element and pivotally connected to the arm element supporting the arm element whilst permitting it to pivot so as to alter the direction in which it extends, and an expandable annular element located directly between radially separated opposed annular faces which respectively move with the movable arm element and form part of the support therefor, the expandable element having a fluid connection leading to means for supplying hydraulic oil under pressure to the interior of the expandable element to expand same and cause the movable arm element to lock relative to the support therefor until the hydraulic oil pressure is released, an air pressure-to-oil pressure intensifier for converting air line pressure to a higher oil pressure by providing a large diameter piston over which the air pressure acts and a small diameter piston movable in a cylinder containing the oil, and a control valve for supplying air under pressure from a source thereof to the air pressure-to-oil pressure intensifier and for venting the pressurized air therein when the pressure is to be released. 2. A locking device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the expandable element is located between an external cylindrical surface of a knuckle at the first end of the movable arm element and an outer bounding sleeve of the support for the movable arm element. 3. A locking device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the annular expandable element is sandwiched between an internal cylindrical face of a circular recess formed in an end face of one end of the movable arm element which is located within the support therefor, and wherein the support includes a cylindrical protrusion which fits into the recess and provides an external cylindrical surface for the expandable element. 4. A locking device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the material from which the expandable element is formed and the material of at least one of said faces is selected so as to be compatible with the wear which will inevitably occur with relative movement of the arm element and the expandable element. 5. A locking device for locking up a movable arm assembly such as a robot arm assembly device comprising: a longitudinal extending movable arm element having a first end, a support extending around the first end of the movable arm element and pivotally connected to the arm element supporting the arm element whilst permitting it to pivot so as to alter the direction in which it extends, and an expandable annular element located directly between radially separated opposed annular faces which respectively move with the movable arm element and form part of the support therefor, the expandable element having a fluid connection leading to means for supplying hydraulic oil under pressure to the interior of the expandable element to expand same and cause the movable arm element to lock relative to the support therefor until the hydraulic oil pressure is released, said support and arm element having cooperating elements with bearing surfaces in addition to the bearing surface provided by the expandable element, said cooperating elements including at least one axle member on said arm element and at least one aperture formed in said support into which said axle member protrudes. 