A robotic hand (10,36) for batch pickup of articles (12,38) arranged in an array of columns and rows includes a plate (14,40) having a plurality of article-receiving passages (16,42) therethrough. Each article (12,38) is captured within separate one of the passage (16,42) by at least one gripping member (18,44,46) which includes a strip (20,48,52) having a depending finger (22,50,54) extending into the passage. The gripping member is moved to capture the article (12,38) therein between the finger and the passage wall. The gripping members (18,44,46) are pivotally connected to rotary actuators (26,64) by linkage bars (32,58,62) which displace the gripping members (18,44,46) across the plate (14,40) to capture each article (12,38) within a corresponding plate passages (16,42).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for capturing a plurality of articles arranged in an array of columns and rows, the method comprising the steps of: positioning a plate, having a plurality of passages therethrough, to locate each article in a passage; and selectively moving a plurality of first members, each having a first finger depending therefrom and projecting into a passage, to displace each finger to selectively capture an article between said finger and a wall of the passage. 2. The invention according to claim 1 comprising the step of: selectively moving a plurality of second members, each having a second finger depending therefrom and projecting into said passage, in a direction perpendicular to said first plurality of members to displace each second finger of said second member to selectively capture the article between the second finger and the wall of the passage. 3. The invention according to claim 2 characterized by each article and each passage being rectangular in shape and each article lying between the first and second fingers of said first and second members, respectively, and a respective wall of the passage, and wherein said first and second members are moved to displace each finger thereof to capture the article between each of the fingers and the respective wall of the passage. 4. The invention according to claim 2 wherein the first and second members are moved in unison. 5. A robotic hand for gripping articles arranged in an array of columns and rows comprising: a plate having a plurality of passages therethrough, each passage located and sized to receive a separate one of the articles; a plurality of gripping means each extending into a separate one of the plate passages; and moving means for selectively moving a separate one of said gripping means to selectively capture a selected one of said articles in the associated one of said plate passages. 6. The invention according to claim 5 wherein said moving means comprises a plurality of rotary actuators, each individually connected to the gripping means to impart reciprocal motion thereto. 7. The invention according to claim 5 characterized by a first and second group of gripping means, each of the gripping means in said first group extending into all the passages in a separate one of the columns of the array of passages for movement across each passage and each of the gripping means in said second group extending into all the passages in a separate one of the rows of the array of passages for movement across each passage so that the gripping means of said first and second group of gripping means extending into each passage cooperate to capture the articles between the respective gripping means and the wall of the passage. 8. The invention according to claim 7 wherein said moving means comprises: a first pair of spaced, parallel linkage bars each pivotally connected to a separate one of the ends of said first group of gripping means; a second pair of spaced, parallel linkage bars each perpendicular to each of the first pair of linkage bars and each pivotally connected to a separate one of the ends of said second group of gripping means; and four rotary drive means, each pivotally connected between the end of a separate one of the linkage bars of the first pair and the end of a separate one of the linkage bars of the second pair for jointly displacing the linkage bars of each first pair orthogonally to the second pair to urge an associated one of the gripping means of said first and second group against the article in each of said passages. 9. The invention according to claim 5 wherein each gripping means comprises: a strip overlying a separate one of said passages; and a flexible finger depending from said strip and projecting into the plate passage underlying said strip. 10. The invention according to claim 9 characterized by each article being cylindrical and each passage being a cylindrical opening, and wherein each flexible finger of each strip is arcuately shaped to bear against an associated one of said cylindrically shaped articles. 11. The invention according to claim 7 wherein: each gripping means of said first group comprises: a first strip overlying each of the passages in a separate column of passages; and a plurality of first flexible fingers each depending from said first strip into a separate one of the passages in the column to bear against the article received therein; and wherein each gripping means of said second group comprises: a second strip overlying each of the passages in a separate row of passages; and a plurality of second flexible fingers, each depending from said second strip into a separate one of the passages in the row to bear against the article recieved therein. 12. An apparatus for simultaneously capturing a plurality of articles arranged in an array of columns and rows, the apparatus comprising: a plate having a plurality of passages therethrough wherein each passage is sized to receive an article therein; a plurality of planar members positioned proximate to the plate and mounted for selective movement parallel thereto; and a finger depending from each planar member and projecting into a passage to capture an article between the finger and the wall of the passage upon movement of the planar member. 13. A robotic hand for batch pickup of articles arranged in an array of columns and rows, comprising: a plate having a plurality of passages therethrough sized to receive an article of the array in respective passages; a plurality of gripping members, each including a strip which overlies a separate one of said passages and adapted for movement thereacross, and each strip having a depending, flexible finger extending therefrom into a separate one of said passages; and means for selectively moving each said gripping member across said plate to capture the article received in an associated one of said plate passages between the finger and the wall of the passage. 