A robotic wrist joint comprises a spherical member which is mounted within a ring shaped housing for rotational movement in any direction. A control pin extends from an outer surface of the spherical member. A first semi-circular yoke is pivotally mounted to the ring shaped housing and carries a first track. A second yoke is provided in a position radially inwardly of the first yoke. The second yoke is also semi-circular and is mounted for rotation on the housing about an axis perpendicular to the rotational axis of the first yoke. The second yoke carries a second track. The control pin extends into both the first and the second track so that the spherical member can be brought into any desired location by selectively pivoting the yokes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanical wrist joint comprising: a substantially spherical, groove-free member having an outer surface which is spherical and continuous, said outer surface having a geometric center; a control pin extending radially from said outer surface; a ring-shaped housing engaging said outer surface and permitting relative movement between said spherical member and said housing in any direction around said center, said housing lying in a plane containing said center, said housing having an inner annular spherical surface in sliding contact with said outer surface and having a center of curvature at said outer surface center; an outer control yoke rotatably mounted to said housing at about a first axis and extending at least partly around said spherical member, said outer yoke having a first track defined therein, said pin movable in said track for rotation of said spherical member with motion of said pin in said first track; and an inner control yoke rotatably mounted to said housing about a second axis which is perpendicular to said first axis, said inner yoke extending at least partly around said spherical member and including a second track defined therein, said pin movably engaged in said second track for rotation of said spherical member with motion of said pin in said second track, said second track extending through said inner control yoke and forming a slot therein; said inner and outer yokes each being substantially semi-circular and being pivotally mounted to said ring-shaped housing about said first and second perpendicular axes. 2. A mechanical wrist joint according to claim 1, wherein said first track comprises a slot in said outer control yoke, said outer control yoke having a central closing bridge covering a central portion of said slot in said outer yoke. 3. A robotic wrist joint comprising: a sphere having an outer continuous groove-free spherical surface; a control pin connected to said sphere and extending radially outwardly of said surface; a ring-shaped housing having an inner journal surface engaged with said outer surface of said sphere for rotation and displacement of said sphere with respect to said housing, said inner surface shaped to confine said sphere in said housing; an outer semi-circular control yoke rotatably mounted about a first axis to said housing and over said sphere, said yoke having a first slot therein, said control pin extending into said slot and movable along said slot for rotating said sphere about an axis of rotation perpendicular to said first axis; and a semi-circular inner control yoke rotatably mounted to said housing about a second axis which is perpendicular to said first axis, said inner yoke having a second slot therein, said control pin extending into said second slot and movable along said second slot for rotating said sphere about an axis perpendicular to said second axis; said pin being movable in said first slot of said outer yoke by rotation of said inner yoke about its second axis and said pin being movable in said second slot of said inner yoke by rotation of said outer yoke about its first axis; a slide cap connected to an end of said pin and engaged in said first slot of said outer control yoke; and said outer control yoke including a central bridge overlying a central portion of said first slot. 4. A mechanical wrist joint according to claim 2, wherein said inner and outer control yokes are each substantially semi-circular, said housing being ring shaped and engaged around said spherical member. 5. A mechanical wrist joint according to claim 2, including a slide cap connected to said control pin, said slot forming said first track having parallel side walls, said cap having parallel side walls engaged with said parallel side walls of said slot. 6. A mechanical wrist joint according to claim 5, wherein said ring shaped housing includes four holes therein evenly spaced therearound, each of said control yokes having a pivot pin at each end thereof enageged into one of said holes. 7. A mechanical wrist joint according to claim 6, wherein said housing comprises an upper ring segment and a lower ring segment connected to said upper ring segment, said ring segments defining an inner beveled surface engaged with said outer surface of said spherical member. 