A movable part of a robot, such as the fingers of the robot hand, are provided with an array of tactile elements mounted on a substrate. Each element includes a magnetic dipole embedded in a compliant medium on one side of the substrate and a magnetic sensor on the other side of the substrate. The dipole and sensor are in parallel planes. A force or torque deforms the compliant medium and displaces the magnetic dipoles with respect to the sensor. The sensor detects the change in magnetic field and produces an electrical signal which is used to control the robot. Magnetoresistive sensors are preferred. To detect torque, each element illustratively includes four sensors arranged at 90.degree. to one another and a magnetic dipole oriented at 45.degree. to each sensor. Also described is the handling of objects by a robot having such a tactile array in its gripper or hand, and the use of a robot to bring an object into contact with such a tactile array mounted, for example, on a table top, thereby enabling pattern recognition functions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising a robot having a movable robot part for handling an object, a tactile sensor incorporated in said part so as to generate an electrical signal in response to forces applied thereto by said object, and means responsive to said signal for controlling said movable robot part, said tactile sensor comprising an array of tactile elements each of which includes a layer of a compliant medium, means forming a magnetic dipole embedded in said medium, and adjacent said dipole a plurality of magnetoresistive sensors oriented at essentially 90.degree. to one another and at essentially 45.degree. to said dipole. 2. The robotic system of claim 1 including at least four magnetoresistive sensors oriented along the four edges of a square, said dipole being oriented along a diagonal of said square. 3. The robotic system of claim 2 including means forming a randomizing magnetic field adjacent said medium. 4. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein said tactile sensor includes a substrate, said compliant medium is formed on one surface of said substrate and said magnetoresistive sensors are formed on the opposite surface of said substrate. 5. The robotic system of claims 1, 2, 3 or 4 wherein said movable part comprises a gripper including a movable finger having a surface which contacts said object, said tactile sensor being formed on said surface. 