The robotic assembly of a keyboard using a multiplicity of keys of a plurality of distinct types, such As key caps on a sculptured keyboard, can be substantially increased in speed by the use of a multifacted rotatable turret for picking up and installing the key caps onto the keyboard. A programmable robot, having a robotic arm is provided with a rotatable multifaceted turret. Each facet of the turret includes a key handling member which is molded to accept a distinct type of sculptured key. The types of sculptured keys are segregated in a pick-up position. The turret is manipulated by the robotic arm in the pick-up position to pick up a multiplicity of keys of one given type on each of the facets of the turret. Thus, each turret picks up one type of keys. The turret is then translated by the robotic arm to an assembly position. The turret is once again rotated and advanced to assemble the key caps on to key stem projected from the keyboard. Each facet is oriented in advance to install the type of key cap corresponding to that facet. Typically each row of keys is characterized by a distinct type of sculptured key cap. Thus, a separate facet is rotated in position to install each row of keys. Significantly, during the entire robotic assembly of a keyboard, the robotic arms make only one trip between the pick-up position and assembly positions regardless of the number of keys installed or the number of types of keys installed on the keyboard. This serves to substantially reduce the robotic assembly time.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic system for assembling a multiplicity of parts, said multiplicity of parts characterized by a plurality of distinct types, said parts disposed in a pick-up position and assembled in an assembly position spaced apart from said pick-up position, said system comprising: a programmable robot with an arm; a multifaceted turret, each facet of said turret arranged and configured to manipulate at least one of said plurality of said types of parts; means for rotating said turret to selectively orient one of said facets of said turret in a predetermined orientation; means for vertically moving said turret; and control means coupled to said robotic arm, to said means for rotating and to said means for advancing for controlling each according to a predetermined program, whereby said system is capable of assembling a multiplicity of parts of a plurality of types while moving only once between said pick-up position where said parts are picked up and said assembly position where said parts are assembled. 2. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein said multiplicity of parts are sculptured key caps and wherein each facet of said turret is arranged and configured to manipulate one type of sculptured key cap. 3. The robotic system of claim 2 wherein said means for moving said turret advances said turret with a selected force of advance. 4. The robotic system of claim 4 wherein said means for moving said turret is a pneumatic actuator and wherein said control means supplies a selected one of a plurality of pneumatic driving pressures to said pneumatic actuator. 5. The robotic system of claim 4 wherein said turret further comprises a vacuum manifold, each facet on said turret supplied with vacuum for temporarily retaining said parts on said facet of said turret. 6. A improvement in a robotics system for assembling a multiplicity of parts, said multiplicity of parts characterized by a plurality of types, said robotic system including a corresponding plurality of hoppers for arranging said multiplicity of parts of each type in a pick-up position in a predetermined orientation, a conveyor mechanism for transporting and selectively retaining a workpiece to which said multiplicity of parts are to be assembled at an assembly position, a robotic arm for moving said multiplicity of parts from said pick-up position to said assembly position, a controller for timing and controlling movement of said robotic arm, said improvement comprising; a rotatable multifaceted turret coupled to said robotic arm, each facet of said turret including a member arranged and configured to mate with one of said plurality of types of said parts and to temporarily retain said part on said facet; and means for selectively rotating said turret to orient each facet of said turret in a predetermined orientation, whereby a multiplicity of said parts of said plurality types may be temporarily retained on said turret when in said pick-up position, moved to said assembly position and assembled on said workpiece with a single movement of said robotic arm between said pick-up position and assembly position. 7. The improvement of claim 6 wherein said multifaceted rotatable turret further comprises a vacuum manifold, each facet of said turret being provided with a plurality of vacuum ports, said ports within said members applying a suction to each part disposed in said member to temporarily retain said member on said turret. 8. The improvement of claim 6 wherein said parts are key caps and said workpiece a keyboard, said plurality of types of key caps corresponding to distinguishable types of sculptured key caps. 9. The improvement of claim 8 wherein each type of key cap is distinguished by a distinct shape of key cap. 10. The improvement of claim 9 wherein each type of key cap is further distinguished by a distinct size of key cap. 11. A method for assembling a multiplicity of parts on a workpiece, said multiplicity of parts comprised of a plurality of characteristic types, said method comprising the step of: disposing said parts in a pick-up position, said parts segregated in said pick-up position by said type of said part; picking up at least one part of said plurality of types of said parts in said pick-up position with a rotatable multifaceted turret mounted on a robotic arm; moving said turret from said pick-up position to an assembly position in a single motion between said two positions; installing said parts on said turret onto said workpiece when in said assembly position, whereby robotic assembly time required for assembly of a multiplicity of parts of a plurality of types is substantially decreased. 12. The method of claim 11 where said step of picking up at least one of said types of parts comprises the steps of: picking up one of said types of parts on one facet of said rotatable turret when in said pick-up position; rotating said turret while remaining in said pick-up position; and picking up a second one of said types of parts on a second facet of said turret while remaining in said pick-up position. 13. The method of claim 12 where said step of installing said parts on said turret comprises the steps of: installing a first one of said types on one of said facets of said turret on said workpiece when in said assembly position; rotating said turret to orient a second facet of said turret in a predetermined orientation while remaining in said assembly position, said second facet including said second type of said parts; and installing said second type of said parts on said workpiece while remaining in said assembly position. 14. The method of claim 11 where said step of installing said parts on said turret comprises the steps of: installing a first one of said types on one of said facets of said turret on said workpiece when in said assembly position; rotating said turret to orient a second facet of said turret in a predetermined orientation while remaining in said assembly position, said second facet including said second type of said parts; and installing said second type of said parts on said workpiece while remaining in said assembly position. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein said multiplicity of parts are key caps and said workpiece is a keyboard, said types of key caps being distinct sculptured key caps and where said step of picking up said parts comprises the steps of: applying a vacuum to said turret, said turret comprising a vacuum manifold; communicating said vacuum through a mating member attached to a corresponding facet of said turret; bringing said mating member into mating engagement with a corresponding type of sculptured key cap; and applying vacuum through said mating member to said key cap to temporarily retain said sculptured key cap to said mating member. 16. The method of claim 15 where said step of installing said key caps on to said keyboard comprise the steps of: selectively orienting a facet of said turret with respect to said keyboard; advancing said selected facet towards said keyboard, said keyboard including a corresponding plurality of key stems, said key stems being disposed by said step of advancing into a corresponding key cap temporarily retained within said mating member of said turret, said key stem tightly slip fit into said key cap; and retracting said turret from said keyboard, tightness of said slip fit of said key caps breaking suction between said mating member and said key cap thereby removing said key caps from said turret. 17. A improvement in a method of assembling a multiplicity of parts of a plurality of distinguishable types on to a workpiece comprising the steps of: loading a rotatable multifaceted turret with a multiplicity of parts of said plurality of distinguishable types when in a pick-up position; moving said turret from a pick-up position to an assembly position, said workpiece disposed at said assembly position; installing said multiplicity of parts of said plurality of types of said workpiece when in said assembly position; and moving said turret from said assembly position in a single motion back to said pick-up position, whereby operational cycles of robotic assembly of a multiplicity of parts of a plurality of types is substantially decreased. 18. The improvement of claim 17 where said step of loading said rotatable multifaceted turret comprises the step of loading each facet of said multifaceted turret with a single type of a part. 19. The method of claim 17 where said step of installing comprises the steps of: orienting one facet of said multifaceted rotatable turret in a predetermined position; simultaneously installing each of said parts on said one facet on to said workpiece; rotating said turret to position another facet of said turret in said predetermined position; and installing said parts on said other facet on to said workpiece. 20. The method of claim 18 where said step of installing comprises the steps of: orienting one facet of said multifaceted rotatable turret in a predetermined position; simultaneously installing each of said parts on said one facet on to said workpiece; rotating said turret to position another facet of said turret in said predetermined position; and installing said parts on said other facet on to said workpiece. 