An improved electric actuator is provided, having in association therewith a resolver. The actuator includes a stationary and a rotatable housing, and an electric motor within it. The electric motor drives the rotary housing through a speed reducing harmonic drive mechanism. The actuator has an opening in the rotary housing, and a cavity inwardly of the opening having a mating anchoring element connected with the stationary housing. A modular resolver is provided, of a shape and size to have a major portion of it occupy the cavity provided in the actuator, and having a mating part for engaging the mating part of the stationary housing, upon assemblage of the resolver to the actuator. A rotatable part of the resolver is secured to the rotary housing. A heat dissipation system is provided, including a fan mounted on a rotary member of the actuator and a closed circuit for the passage of air between the fan and a heat conductive plate forming a part of the stationary housing. Stability for the rotary housing is provided by widely spaced ball bearings supporting a rotary shaft extending from the rotary housing, the ball bearings being located at the maximum axial spacing within the stationary housing. In addition, an electromagnetic brake of lightweight construction is provided to prevent rotation of the rotary housing, and the resolver includes a coupling of the bellows type for elastic isolation from distortion of the parts, due to stresses between the fixed and rotary parts of the resolver.
Claims We claim: 1. In combination, (a) an electric robotic actuator and a modular resolver affixed to said actuator for indicating the position of a movable portion of said actuator relative to a stationary portion of said actuator; (b) said actuator comprising a stationary first housing, a second housing rotatably supported by said first housing, rotating means for causing said second housing to controllably rotate relative to said first housing, said rotating means comprising a motor within said housings including a stator affixed to said first housing and a rotor, said rotor coupled to said second housing through a speed reducing deep cup harmonic drive mechanism, and said second housing having a covering back plate which is provided with a centrally disposed aperture; (c) said modular resolver comprising a first resolver portion and a second resolver portion, said modular resolver projecting at least partially into said housings through said centrally disposed aperture in said covering back plate of said second housing, removable resolver connecting means for affixing said first resolver portion to said covering back plate of said second housing, mounting means for rotatably mounting said second resolver portion relative to said first resolver portion and for maintaining said modular resolver portions in assembled relationship, slip-fit mating means which when mated rigidly connects said second resolver portion to said stationary first housing actuator portion, said modular resolver including a resolver stator affixed to said second resolver portion and a resolver rotor affixed to said first resolver portion and operable to provide an electrical signal which is an accurate indication of the rotation of said first resolver portion relative to said second resolver portion; and said modular resolver being readily removable and replaceable on said actuator by removing said removable resolver connecting means to free said first resolver portion from said covering back plate of said second actuator housing and then moving said modular resolver out of said aperture in said covering back plate to disengage said slip-fit mating means; whereby said resolver can readily be replaced without disassembling said actuator. 2. The combination of claim 1, and further comprising heat transferring means for transferring heat from within said actuator to the exterior thereof. 3. The combination of claim 2, said heat transferring means comprising a heat conductive back plate of said first housing, and gas circulating means for circulating gas through a closed air-circulation path within said housings, said closed air-circulation path providing flow past said rotor and said stator of said actuator motor and into contact with said heat conducting back plate for removing heat from said rotor and stator and transferring the removed heat to said heat conductive covering back plate of said first housing. 4. The combination of claim 3, said gas circulating means comprising a fan blade operatively affixed to a rotating member within said housings and said air-circulation path comprising passage means through said deep cup harmonic drive mechanism, said stationary first housing, and said rotating member. 5. The combination of claim 1, said electric actuator interiorly of said aperture in said covering back plate of said actuator second housing defining a cavity, said second resolver portion extending into said cavity in spaced relationship to said actuator other than at said slip-fit mating means. 6. The combination of claim 1, said second portion of said resolver including metal bellows means proximate said slip-fit mating means, said metal bellows means providing a zero backlash coupling which is elastically stiff in rotation but flexible in axial alignment so that stresses generated in said actuator are not transmitted to said resolver. 7. The combination of claim 1, wherein said second housing of said actuator is rotatably supported about said stationary first housing through rotational support means comprising first and second ball bearings, said first ball bearing located adjacent said covering back plate of said first housing and said second ball bearing located adjacent the end of said first housing remote from said back plate. 8. The combination of claim 1, said slip-fit mating means comprising axially engageable elements on said actuator first housing and said second resolver portion. 9. The combination of claim 4, and further comprising electromagnetic brake means for resisting rotation of said actuator second housing relative to said actuator first housing. 10. The combination of claim 9, said electromagnetic brake means having an annular brake disc non-rotationally affixed to said motor rotor, an annular brake shoe affixed to said first housing of said actuator axially of said brake disc, a backup ring affixed to said first housing axially of said brake disc and on the opposite side thereof from said brake shoe, means for continually urging said brake shoe towards said brake disc and towards said backup ring, and electric coil means for controllably urgings said brake shoe away from said brake disc to permit free rotation of said brake disc and said motor rotor with respect to said brake shoe and said first housing. 11. The combination of claim 10, and further comprising electric coil supporting means for supporting said electric coil means of said electromagnetic brake means on said stationary actuator first housing, and electric coil adjusting means for axially adjusting the position of said electric coil means. 12. The combination of claim 1, said modular resolver further comprising a limit switch, limit switch mounting means for mounting said limit switch on one said portion of said resolver, a cam ring, cam ring mounting means for mounting said cam ring on the other said portion of said resolver in juxtaposition with said switch, said cam ring being a split retaining ring, and said cam ring mounting means comprising a groove in a cylindrical element of said second portion. 13. An electric robotic actuator comprising a stationary first housing, a second housing rotatably supported about said first housing in coaxial relationship therewith, rotating means for rotating said second housing relative to said first housing, said rotating means comprising a stator on said first housing and a rotor on a rotating member within said housings, speed reducing harmonic drive means for drivably connecting said rotor to said second housing, and heat transferring means for transferring heat from within said actuator to the exterior thereof, said heat transferring means comprising a heat conductive back plate of said first actuator housing and gas circulating means for circulating gas within said housings from a source of heat energy to said heat conducting back plate, said gas circulating means comprising a fan blade affixed to said rotating member within said housings, and passage means providing an air-circulation path from said fan blade to said heat conducting back plate and return from said heat conducting back plate to said fan blade. 14. The actuator of claim 13, and further comprising a modular resolver for indicating the position of said second actuator housing relative to said stationary first housing, said resolver comprising a first portion and a second portion, said second portion rotationally mounted relative to said first portion and held in assembled relationship therewith, removable resolver connecting means for removably connecting said first resolver portion to said second actuator housing, slip-fit mating means for non-rotationally connecting said stationary first actuator housing and said second resolver portion, said modular resolver comprising a resolver stator on said second resolver portion and a resolver rotor on said first resolver portion in operative relationship therewith, said first resolver portion and said second resolver portion being removable from said coaxially supported actuator housings by disconnecting said removable resolver connecting means and said slip-fit mating means. 