Apparatus constructed such that it may control various other equipment for the performance of various work tasks, even other equipment yet to be designed for work tasks yet to be designed. The apparatus comprises a central computer control means comprising (1) a dictionary storage means for tagging and storing command-specific parameters for a specific work tasks and that specific robot module to which each of the parameters belongs and (2) sequencing means to schedule said work-tasks for a plurality of said modules. The module also can be activated for the task without use of the sequencing means, e.g. by having the module request one of its own dictionary entries.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control system for operating a number of different robot modules, the improvement comprising a language-generating and storing means, said language generating means comprising means to receive command-specific operating parameters, from a robot module, and means to transfer said operating parameters, said known robot module identification, and a selected name for said parameters into a dictionary storage means and program means to activate such operating parameters by using said selected name as a command signal to transfer said parameters to said module. 2. A control system as defined in claim 1 wherein said system comprises a plurality of said selected names for each of a plurality of different said robot modules, at least some of which names, themselves comprise a plurality of sets of operating parameters in said dictionary means, and wherein said selected names, taken together, form a device-independent sequencing language control means for each said robot module in such system. 3. A control system as defined in claim 2 comprising: a robotic device means; a first said module means for providing all of the intelligence for said robotic device means, said module means being electrically connected to said robotic device means; computer means; a first physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said first module means so that all of the intelligence for the robotic device means is located on the robotic device means side of the physical interface means; means for performing a defined task; a second and different module means for providing all of the intelligence for said defined task performing means, said module means being electrically connecting to said defined task performing means; and, a second physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said second module means so that all of the intelligence for the defined task performing means is located on the defined task performing means side of the physical interface means. 4. A control system as defined in claim 2 comprising: a plurality of robotic device means; a corresponding plurality of module means with each module means providing all of the intelligence for the corresponding robotic device means, and being electrically connected thereto; computer means; and, a corresponding plurality of physical interface means each providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and the corresponding module means so that all of the intelligence for each robotic device means is located on the robotic device means side of the associated physical interface means. 5. The control system of claim 2 wherein each said physical interface means provides separable electrical connections between said computer means and the corresponding module means for at least data, address and read and write. 6. The control system of claim 5 wherein each said module means further comprises means for providing a control block flag and starting offset for said computer means and means for providing an input/output interface between the computer means and the corresponding robotic device means. 7. A control system as defined in claim 1 comprising: a robotic device means; a first said module means for providing all of the intelligence for said robotic device means, said module means being electrically connected to said robotic device means; computer means; a first physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said first module means so that all of the intelligence for the robotic device means is located on the robotic device means side of the physical interface means; means for performing a defined task; a second and different module means for providing all of the intelligence for said defined task performing means, said module means being electrically connected to said defined task performing means; and, a second physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said second module means so that all of the intelligence for the defined task performing means is located on the defined task performing means side of the physical interface means. 8. The control system of claim 7 wherein each said physical interface means provides separable electrical connections between said computer means and said module means for at least data, address, and read and write. 9. The control system of claim 7 wherein said module means further comprises means for providing a control block flag and starting offset for said computer means and means for providing an input/output interface between the computer means and said robotic device means. 10. A self-configuring robotic system having a control system as defined in claim 1 and comprising: computer means having a central processing unit and an operating system that contains at least a nucleus, a sequence reprogrammer and task support services; a plurality of different robotic device means; a corresponding plurality of module means with each module means providing all of the intelligence for the corresponding robotic device means and being electrically connected thereto, each said module means having means for providing a control block flag and starting offset for said computer means and means for providing an input/output interface between the computer means and the corresponding robotic device means; and, a corresponding plurality of physical interface means each providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and the corresponding module means so that all of the intelligence for each robotic device means is located on the robotic device means side of the associated physical interface means. 11. A self-configuring robotic system having a control system as defined in claim 1 wherein: said computer means having a central processing unit and an operating system that contains at least a nucleus, a sequence reprogrammer and task support services; and wherein a robotic device means having; a first module means providing all of the intelligence for said robotic device means and being electrically connected thereto, said first module means having means for providing a control block flag and starting offset for said computer means and means for providing an input/output interface between the computer means and said robotic device means; a first physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said first module means so that all of the intelligence for the robotic device means is located on the robotic device means side of the physical interface means; means for performing a defined task; a second different module means providing all of the intelligence for said defined task performing means and being electrically connected thereto, said second module means having means for providing a control block flag and starting offset for said computer means and means for providing an input/output interface between the computer means and said defined task performing means; a second physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said second module means so that all of the intelligence for the defined task performing means is located on the defined task performing means side of the physical interface means. 12. A method for self-configuring a robotic system that comprises: the system of claim 1; a robotic device means; a first module means for providing all of the intelligence for said robotic device means, said module means being electrically connected to said robotic device means; computer means having a central processing unit and an operating system that contains at least a nucleus, a sequence reprogrammer and task support services; a first physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said first module means so that all of the intelligence for the robotic device means is located on the robotic device means side of the physical interface means; a task device means for performing a defined task; a second module means for providing all of the intelligence for said defined task performing device means, said second module means being electrically connected to said defined task performing device means; and, a second physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said second module means so that all of the intelligence for the defined task performing device means is located on the defined task performing device means side of the physical interface means; said method comprising the steps of: 1. searching for and finding the control block flag in one of the module means; 2. creating an intialization task in response to finding the control block flag in said one of the module means; 3. starting said initialization task; 4. initializing the associated device means from the intelligence contained in said one module means; and, 5. repeating steps 1 through 4 for the other module means and its associated device means. 13. A method for self-configuring a robotic system that comprises: the system of claim 1; a plurality of different robotic device means; a corresponding plurality of module means with each module means providing all of the intelligence for the corresponding robotic device means, and being electrically connected thereto; computer means having a central processing unit and an operating system that contains at least a nucleus, a sequence reprogrammer and task support services; and, a corresponding plurality of physical interface means each providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and the corresponding module means so that all of the intelligence for each robotic device means is located on the robotic means side of the associated physical interface means said method comprising the steps of: 1. searching for and finding the control block flag in one of the module means; 2. creating an initialization task in response to finding the control block flag in said one of the module means; 3. starting said initialization task; 4. initializing the associated robotic device means from the intelligence contained in said one module means; and, 5. repeating steps 1 through 4 for each one of the other robotic device means until the plurality of robotic device means has been initialized. 