An orbital barrel finishing machine employs rotatable drums which are removable from the machine. A coupling member mounting a plurality of angularly spaced axially extending pins engages slots of a second coupling member to provide a rotational drive engagement for the removable drums. The drums are uncoupled from the drive engagement by axially displacing the drums. A releasable latch assembly is employed to secure the drums in the coupled drive position. The orbital barrel finishing machine is employed as a component of an integrated automatic finishing system wherein the rotatable drums may be automatically removed from the machine, unloaded, loaded and returned to the machine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An orbital barrel finishing machine comprising: a plurality of drum units each comprising a drum having a removable cover and forming an enclosure for receiving abrasion media and material to be finished and having a pair of oppositely projecting shaft segments, each said shaft segment being mounted in fixed relationship to said drum and mounting a bearing assembly; frame means comprising axially spaced receiving assemblies for receiving said bearing assemblies so that said drum are axially displaceable between first and second axial positions to removably mount said drums in an angularly spaced relationship relative to a central axis; turret means to rotate said drums in a first direction about said central axis; orbital rotation means to rotate each said drum about an orbital rotational axis through each said drum in a direction opposite said first direction; and coupling means selectively engagable in the first axial drum position to rotatably couple a said drum shaft segment to said orbital rotation means, said drum being selectively axially displaceable to the second axial position to release the said drum shaft from rotatable coupling with said orbital rotation means so that said drum unit may be generally transversely withdrawn from said frame means. 2. The orbital barrel finishing machine of claim 1 further comprising an indexing means to index each said drum to a pre-established angular position relative to said central axis of rotation. 3. The orbital barrel finishing machine of claim wherein said indexing means comprises a pneumatically actuated lock pin which is axially displaceable for engagement in a corresponding slot to brake the rotation of said turret means. 4. The orbital barrel finishing machine of claim 1 further comprising a latching means which is actuable to releasably secure a said drum in said first axial position. 5. The orbital barrel finishing machine of claim 1 wherein said coupling means further comprises a male coupling assembly comprising a plurality of angularly spaced coupling pins and a female member forming a plurality of angularly spaced slots which are alignable for receiving said coupling pins. 6. The orbital barrel finishing machine of claim 1 wherein each said drum unit further comprises latch receiving means and each said cover includes spring biased latch pins adapted for locking reception in said latch receiving means for securing said cover to said drum. 7. The orbital barrel finishing machine of claim 6 wherein said latch pins may be withdrawn from said latch receiving means by application of an axial clamping force applied to said latch pins. 8. An automated orbital barrel system comprising: an orbital barrel finishing machine comprising: a plurality of drum units each comprising a drum having a cover and a shaft segment projecting from opposite locations of said drum; frame means comprising axially spaced receiving assemblies to removably mount said shaft segments in an angularly spaced relationship relative to a central axis; turret means to rotate said drums in a first direction about said central axis; orbital rotation means in drive engagement with said turret means to rotate each said drum about an orbital rotational axis through each said drum in a second direction opposite said first direction; drive engagement means to selectively couple each said drum unit to said orbital means for rotational drive engagement therewith; and drum remover means to automatically uncouple a said drum unit from said drive engagement means by axially displacing the said drum unit within said frame means and to remove said drum unit from said machine by generally transversely withdrawing the drum unit from the frame means. 9. The orbital barrel finishing system of claim 8 further comprising a cover remover means for automatically removing the cover of a said removed drum. 10. The orbital barrel finishing system of claim 8 wherein said drum remover means is a robot comprising a support frame having a pair of generally axially pivotal cooperating gripper arms adapted for gripping opposing ends of said drum and means for axially and generally transversely moving said drum. 11. The orbital barrel finishing system of claim 10 further comprising a latch means to releasably latch a said drum in a coupled axial position. 12. The orbital barrel finishing system of claim 11 wherein said robot further comprises a latch actuator arm which is adaptable for selectively releasing the drum from a latched position. 13. The orbital barrel finishing system of claim 8 wherein said drive engagement means comprises a male coupling assembly comprising a plurality of angularly spaced coupling pins and a female member forming a plurality of angularly spaced slots which are alignable for receiving said pins. 