An evolvable synthetic neural system includes an evolvable neural interface operably coupled to at least one neural basis function. Each neural basis function includes an evolvable neural interface operably coupled to a heuristic neural system to perform high-level functions and an autonomic neural system to perform low-level functions. In some embodiments, the evolvable synthetic neural system is operably coupled to one or more evolvable synthetic neural systems in a hierarchy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-accessible medium having executable instructions to manage collective interactions between autonomous entities, the computer-accessible medium comprising: computer executable program code to generate algorithms to manage said collective interactions between autonomous entities, said algorithms including; a first plurality of neural basis functions controlling a corresponding robotic device in turn controlling at least one action in response to sensory input data; and a first evolvable neural interface operably coupled to each of the first plurality of neural basis functions to selectively establish communication between said first plurality of neural basis functions; wherein a first one of said plurality of neural basis functions is autonomously reconfigured during a learning process in response to said selectively established communication with a second one of said plurality of neural basis functions and thereafter change the control of said robotic device. 2. The computer-accessible medium of claim 1, wherein one of the first plurality of neural basis functions further comprises: a ruler neural basis function. 3. The computer-accessible medium of claim 2, wherein the evolvable synthetic neural system further comprises: a second plurality of neural basis functions, wherein the ruler neural basis function further comprises: a communication link to the second plurality of neural basis functions. 4. The computer-accessible medium of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first plurality of neural basis functions further comprises: a heuristic neural system to control at least one high level action in response to sensory input data; and an autonomic neural system to control at least one low level action in response to sensory input data; and a second evolvable neural interface selectively establishing communication between said heuristic neural system and said autonomic neural functions; wherein one of said heuristic and autonomic neural basis functions are autonomously reconfigured during a learning process in response to selective communication with another of said heuristic and autonomic neural basis functions. 5. The computer-accessible medium of claim 4, wherein the heuristic neural system and the autonomic neural system in aggregate provide a function of a biological neural system. 6. The computer-accessible medium of claim 4, wherein the heuristic neural system comprises: a neural net operable to perform pattern recognition; and a fuzzy logic package operable to perform decisions based on recognitions. 7. The computer-accessible medium of claim 6, wherein the neural net and the fuzzy logic package form a basis for a higher level heuristic intelligence. 8. The computer-accessible medium of claim 4, further comprising: a first self assessment loop operably coupling the second evolvable neural interface and the heuristic neural system; a first genetic algorithm operably coupling the second evolvable neural interface and the heuristic neural system, the first genetic algorithm operable to modify the second evolvable neural interface to satisfy requirements of the first self assessment loop during learning and task execution; a second self assessment loop operably coupling the second evolvable neural interface and the autonomic neural system; and a second genetic algorithm operably coupling the second evolvable neural interface and the autonomic neural system, the genetic algorithm operable to modify the second evolvable neural interface to satisfy requirements of the second self assessment loop during learning and task execution. 9. The computer-accessible medium of claim 4, further comprising: a core heuristic genetic code operably coupled to the heuristic neural system; a first self assessment loop operably coupling the core heuristic genetic code and the heuristic neural system; and a first genetic algorithm operably coupling the core heuristic genetic code and the heuristic neural system, the first genetic algorithm operable to modify the heuristic neural system. 10. The computer-accessible medium of claim 4, further comprising: a core autonomous genetic code operably coupled to the autonomic neural system; a first self assessment loop operably coupling the core autonomous genetic code and the autonomic neural system; and a first genetic algorithm operably coupling the core autonomous genetic code and the autonomic neural system, the first genetic algorithm operable to modify the autonomous neural system. 11. The computer-accessible medium of claim 4, wherein each of said heuristic and autonomic neural basis functions are autonomously reconfigured during a learning process in response to selective communication there between. 12. An computer-accessible medium to manage collective interactions between autonomous entities, the computer-accessible medium comprising: computer executable program code to generate algorithms, said algorithms including; at least one neural basis functions operable to control a corresponding robotic device in turn controlling at least one action in response to sensory input data, at least one ruler neural basis function that is capable of establishing and removing links to other similarly configured evolvable synthetic neural systems; and a first evolvable neural interface operably coupled to said at least one neural basis function and said at least one ruler neural basis function and selectively establishes communication there between and thereby facilitating autonomously reconfiguration of said at least one neural basis function during a learning process and thereafter change the control of said robotic device. 13. The evolvable synthetic neural system of claim 12, wherein each said at least one neural basis functions comprises a second evolvable neural interface, the second evolvable neural interface comprising: a communication link between a heuristic neural system and an autonomic neural system of said at least one neural basis functions. 14. An computer-accessible medium, comprising: computer executable program code to generate algorithms, said algorithms including; at least one neural basis function operable to control a corresponding robotic device in turn controlling at least one action in response to sensory input data, wherein said at least one neural basis function comprises: an evolvable neural interface; a heuristic neural system operably coupled to the evolvable neural interface; and an autonomic neural system operably coupled to the evolvable neural interface, wherein the heuristic neural system and the autonomic neural system in aggregate provide a function of a biological neural system by autonomous reconfiguration during a learning process in response to selective communication with said evolvable neural interface and thereafter change the control of said robotic device. 15. The computer-accessible medium of claim 14, wherein the evolvable neural interface further comprises: a communication link between the heuristic neural system and the autonomic neural system. 16. The computer-accessible medium of claim 14, wherein the heuristic neural system comprises: a neural net operable to perform pattern recognition; and a fuzzy logic package operable to perform decisions based on recognitions. 17. The computer-accessible medium of claim 16, wherein the neural net and the fuzzy logic package form a basis for a higher level heuristic intelligence. 18. The computer-accessible medium of claim 14, further comprising: a first self assessment loop operably coupling the evolvable neural interface and the heuristic neural system; a first genetic algorithm operably coupling the evolvable neural interface and the heuristic neural system, the first genetic algorithm operable to modify the evolvable neural interface to satisfy requirements of the first self assessment loop during learning and task execution; a second self assessment loop operably coupling the evolvable neural interface and the autonomic neural system; and a second genetic algorithm operably coupling the evolvable neural interface and the autonomic neural system, the genetic algorithm operable to modify the evolvable neural interface to satisfy requirements of the second self assessment loop during learning and task execution. 19. The computer-accessible medium of claim 14, further comprising: a core heuristic genetic code operably coupled to the heuristic neural system; a first self assessment loop operably coupling the core heuristic genetic code and the heuristic neural system; and a first genetic algorithm operably coupling the core heuristic genetic code and the heuristic neural system, the first genetic algorithm operable to modify the heuristic neural system. 20. The computer-accessible medium of claim 14, further comprising: a core autonomous genetic code operably coupled to the autonomic neural system; a first self assessment loop operably coupling the core autonomous genetic code and the autonomic neural system; and a first genetic algorithm operably coupling the core autonomous genetic code and the autonomic neural system, the first genetic algorithm operable to modify the autonomous neural system. 21. An autonomous nanotechnology swarm, comprising: first plurality of self-similar workers each including at least one processor executing program code, said program code including; a first plurality of neural basis functions to control a corresponding robotic device in turn controlling at least one action in response to sensory input data; and an evolvable neural interface operably coupled to each of the first plurality of neural basis functions to selectively establish communication between said first plurality of neural basis functions. 22. The autonomous nanotechnology swarm of claim 21, wherein each worker further comprises: a spacecraft associated with said corresponding robotic device, said corresponding robotic device including a deployable solar sail and a propulsion system; said program code further including; a solar sailing subset of neural basis functions operable to control sail deployment and subsequent configuration activity; a spacecraft inter communication subset of neural basis functions operable to control communication with a second plurality of self-similar workers; a housekeeping subset of neural basis functions operable to control spacecraft housekeeping; a ruler subset of neural basis functions operable to coordinate all activities; and a spacecraft navigation and propulsion subset of neural basis functions operable to control navigation and propulsion. 23. A computer-accessible medium having executable instructions to manage collective interactions between autonomous entities, the executable instructions comprising: a first module including at least one processor executing program code and establishing a plurality of autonomous neural basis functions, each autonomous neural basis function to control a corresponding robotic device in turn controlling at least one action in response to sensory input; a second module for instantiating an embryonic evolvable neural interface; and a third module for evolving the embryonic evolvable neural interface to establish complex connectivity between said plurality of autonomous neural basis functions and facilitate autonomous reconfiguration of said neural basis functions and thereafter change the control of said robotic device. 24. The computer-accessible medium of claim 23, wherein the embryonic evolvable neural interface further comprises: a neural thread possessing minimal connectivity. 