A method of requesting assistance relating to a product item including an associated interface surface having coded data indicative of the identity of the product item. The method includes: in a sensing device: sensing at least some of the coded data; generating indicating data indicative of the product item identity and a registration mode of the sensing device, at least some of the indicating data is generated using the sensed coded data; transferring the indicating data to a computer system, the computer system being responsive to the indicating data to cause provision of assistance; and in the computer system: receiving the indicating data; generating, using the received indicating data: identity data indicative of the identity of the product item; and mode data indicative of the registration mode; determining, using the identity data and the mode data, an assistance request; and, causing, using the assistance request, provision of the assistance.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of requesting assistance relating to a product item, the product item including an associated interface surface, the interface surface having disposed thereon or therein coded data portions at respective positions on the interface surface, each coded data portion being indicative of the identity of the product item and the respective position of the coded data portion, wherein the method includes steps of: in a sensing device: sensing at least one coded data portion; generating indicating data indicative of the product item identity, the position of the sensed coded data portion and a registration mode of the sensing device, wherein at least the product item identity and the position are generated using the sensed coded data portion; transferring the indicating data to a computer system; and in the computer system: receiving the indicating data; generating, using the received indicating data: identity data indicative of the identity of the product item; position data indicative of the position of the sensed coded data portion; and mode data indicative of the registration mode; determining, using the identity data, position data and the mode data, an assistance request; and causing, using the assistance request, provision of the assistance. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the coded data portion is indicative of an assistance request, and wherein the method includes, generating in the sensing device, indicating data indicative of the assistance request. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the interface surface includes at least one region, the coded data portions being further indicative of an identity of the at least one region, and wherein the method further includes, in the sensing device: generating, using the sensed coded data portion, indicating data indicative of the region identity. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: receiving the indicating data; generating, using the received indicating data, region identity data indicative of the identity of the at least one region; determining, using the region identity data, an assistance request; and, causing, using the assistance request, provision of the assistance. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the at least one region represents a user interactive element. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes, in the sensing device selecting a registration mode. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the method includes, selecting the registration mode by at least one of: using an input provided on the sensing device; and, sensing an interface surface, the interface surface including coded data disposed thereon or therein, the sensing device being responsive to the coded data to select the registration mode. 8. The method of claim 6, the method including, in the computer system, determining, using the identity data and the selected registration mode, the assistance request. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the method includes selecting the registration mode by at least one of: using an input provided on the computer system; and, in the computer system: receiving mode indicating data from the sensing device, the sensing device being responsive to sensing of coded data provided on a respective mode interface surface to generate indicating data indicative of the registration mode; generating, using the received indicating data, mode data indicative of the registration mode; and, using the mode data to select the registration mode. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: generating, using the received indicating data, request data indicative of the assistance request; and, transferring the request data to a second computer system, the second computer system being responsive to the request data to provide the assistance. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: providing a details request; and, receiving details of the assistance required. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the details request is provided on a details interface surface, the details interface surface having disposed thereon or therein, at a plurality of locations on the interface surface, a corresponding plurality of coded data portions, each coded data portion being indicative of an identity of the details interface surface and the position of the coded data portion, the method including, in the sensing device: sensing at least some of the coded data portions; generating, using the sensed interface surface, details indicating data indicative of: the identity of the details interface surface; and, movement of the sensing device relative to the coded data portions; transferring the details indicating data to the computer system, the computer system being responsive to the details indicating data to cause provision of the assistance. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: receiving the details indicating data; generating, using the received details indicating data: movement data indicative of the movement of the sensing device relative to the interface surface; and, details identity data indicative of the identity of the details interface surface; determining, using the details identity data and the movement data, details data indicative of the details of the assistance required; and, causing, using the details data, provision of the assistance. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the assistance includes: product servicing; product registration; provision of a product access code for allowing the product to be used; and, provision of product information; provision of product help services. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the assistance is provided by at least one of: the computer system; a second computer system; and, an entity associated with the product item. 16. The method of claims 1, wherein the coded data portion are provided on the interface surface coincident with visible markings representing at least one of: product information; the identity of the product item; and, an assistance request. 