The invention relates to a method for the contactless ignition of a welding arc, in addition to a circuit (28) for the contactless ignition of an electric arc, comprising a charging circuit (31), at least one pulse capacitor (30), a decharging circuit containing a circuit, and a high tension converter (32) which is used to inject the high frequency ignition pulses discharged by the pulse capacitor (30) via the circuit to the welding electrode (27). In order to create said type of ignition method and an ignition circuit (28) which enables the welding arc to be ignited in an exact and/or safe and rapid manner and/or to create an improved ignition quality, the charge circuit (31) is connected to a pulse compression circuit (40) comprising the pulse capacitor (30), the high tension converter (32) and the circuit, the circuit being formed by a magnetic throttle valve (41), such that a high frequency circuit of the ignition pulse can be obtained.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for the contactless ignition of a welding arc, in which high-frequency ignition pulses are applied between the welding electrode and the workpiece to be worked to ionize the gap between the welding electrode and the workpiece, and in which the welding current is connected after the ignition of the welding arc, wherein several pulse packets (44) with presettable frequencies and packet period durations (47), or time periods, are applied, wherein several successive ignition pulses (45) are emitted in a pulse packet (44) and a packet interval (46) is each executed between said pulse packets (44), so that overall energy expenditure during ignition can be minimized even while having a maximum energy in each ignition pulse, and wherein the welding current is connected only after a defined period after application of a first ignition pulse, so that preionization of the gap occurs between the welding electrode and the workpiece. 2. An ignition method according to claim 1, wherein the ignition pulses (45) emitted in a pulse packet (44) are changed in respect to at least one of their number, frequency and ignition period duration (50). 3. An ignition method according to claim 1 wherein the packet period duration (47) is greater than the duration of the ignition pulses. 4. An ignition method according to claim 1, wherein the ignition pulses (45) within a pulse packet (44) are applied at an ignition period duration (50) of between 25 .mu.s and 1 ms. 5. An ignition method according to claim 1, wherein the pulse packets (44) are applied at a packet period duration (47) of between 1 ms and 1 s. 6. An ignition method according to claim 1, wherein the welding current is applied for a defined time period following the first ignition pulse (45). 7. An ignition method according to claim 1, wherein the time period (48) of the pulse packets (44) and the number of ignition pulses (45) per pulse packet (44) , respectively, are adjusted or generated as a function of the adjusted welding parameters. 8. An ignition method according to claim 4, wherein the ignition pulses (45) within a pulse packet (44) are applied at an ignition period duration (50) of 125 .mu.s. 9. An ignition method according to claim 5, wherein the pulse packets (44) are applied at a packet period duration (47) of 100 ms. 