Instrumentation, systems, and processes for tracking anatomy, instrumentation, trial implants, implants, and references, and rendering images and data related to them in connection with surgical operations, for example total knee arthroplasties ("TKA"). These instrumentation, systems, and processes are accomplished by using a computer to intraoperatively obtain images of body parts and to register, navigate, and track surgical instruments. Disclosed in this document are also alignment modules and other structures and processes which allow for coarse and fine alignment of instrumentation and other devices relative to bone for use in connection with the tracking systems of the present invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for adjustably positioning surgical instrumentation relative to a femur or a tibia, comprising: a. a structural member adapted to fasten to the femur or the tibia; b. instrumentation adapted to guide a resection device employed to resect bone from the femur or the tibia; c. an alignment module connecting the structural member and the instrumentation, comprising: i. a first member connected to the instrumentation; ii. a second member connected to the structural member and connected to the first member in a fashion that allows the second member and the first member to be varied in orientation relative to each other about at least two substantially orthogonal axes; iii. adjustment structure for controlling motion of the second member relative to the first member and for fixing the position of the second member relative to the first member; and d. a fiducial connected at least indirectly to the instrumentation, which fiducial is capable of being tracked in position and orientation in at least three dimensions by a surgical navigation system. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising an intermediate member connected to the first member in a fashion that allows the intermediate member to move with at least one degree of freedom relative to the first member; and also connected to the second member in a fashion that allows the intermediate member to move with at least one degree of freedom relative to the second member. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2 in which the first and intermediate members are gimbals. 4. Apparatus according to claim 2 in which the intermediate and second members are gimbals. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which the structural member is an external fixation device. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which the structural member cooperates with the instrumentation via a ball and socket linkage. 7. Apparatus for adjustably positioning surgical instrumentation relative to bone, comprising: a. a structural member adapted to fasten to bone; b. surgical instrumentation adapted to guide surgical devices; and c. an alignment module, comprising: i. a structural member retention component adapted to connect to the structural member; ii. a surgical instrumentation retention component adapted to connect to the surgical instrumentation; and iii. an intermediate component adapted to connect to the structural member retention component in a fashion that allows the structural member retention component and the intermediate component to rotate relative to each other about at least one axis, and adapted to connect to the surgical instrumentation retention component in a fashion that allows the surgical instrumentation retention component and the intermediate component to rotate relative to each other about at least one axis two axes; iv. an adjustment mechanism connecting the intermediate component and the structural member retention component, the adjustment mechanism adapted to control and fix orientation of the intermediate component relative to the structural member retention component; and v. an adjustment mechanism connecting the intermediate component and the surgical instrumentation retention component, the adjustment mechanism adapted to control and fix orientation of the intermediate component and the surgical instrumentation retention component; wherein at least one of the adjustment mechanisms is a worm gear and follower mechanism. 8. Apparatus according to claim 7 in which the surgical instrumentation retention component and the intermediate component are gimbals. 9. Apparatus according to claim 7 in which the structural member retention component and the intermediate component are gimbals. 10. Apparatus according to claim 7 in which the structural member is an extramedullary rod. 11. Apparatus according to claim 7 further comprising at least one fiducial connected at least indirectly to the instrumentation for tracking the instrumentation in a surgical navigation system. 12. A system for performing knee surgery comprising: (a) an imager for obtaining an image of at least portions of the knee joint, wherein the imager and at least one bone forming part of the knee joint are each attached to a fiducial capable of being tracked by a position sensor; (b) at least one position sensor adapted to track position of said fiducials; (c) a computer adapted to store at least one image of at least portions of the knee joint and to receive information from said at least one sensor in order to track position and orientation of said fiducials and thus the knee joint; (d) a rod adapted to be fastened to bone in the vicinity of the knee joint; (e) surgical instrumentation adapted to guide devices adapted to cut bone in the vicinity of the knee joint; (f) a variable alignment module connecting the rod and the surgical instrumentation, and adapted to allow adjustment and fixation of angular orientation of the surgical instrumentation relative to the rod about at least two axes; (g) a fiducial at least indirectly connected to the surgical instrumentation in order to allow position and orientation of the instrumentation to be tracked by the system; and (h) a monitor adapted to receive information from the computer in order to display at least one image of the surgical instrumentation, positioned and oriented relative to the knee joint for navigation and positioning of the surgical instrumentation relative to the knee joint. 13. Apparatus for adjustably positioning surgical instrumentation relative to bone, comprising: a. a structural member adapted to fasten to bone; b. surgical instrumentation adapted to guide surgical devices; and c. an alignment module, comprising: i. a structural member retention component adapted to connect to the structural member; ii. a surgical instrumentation retention component adapted to connect to the surgical instrumentation; and iii. an intermediate component adapted to connect to the structural member retention component in a fashion that allows the structural member retention component and the intermediate component to rotate relative to each other about at least one axis, and adapted to connect to the surgical instrumentation retention component in a fashion that allows the surgical instrumentation retention component and the intermediate component to rotate relative to each other about at least one axis two axes; iv. an adjustment mechanism connecting the intermediate component and the structural member retention component, the adjustment mechanism adapted to control and fix orientation of the intermediate component relative to the structural member retention component; and v. an adjustment mechanism connecting the intermediate component and the surgical instrumentation retention component, the adjustment mechanism adapted to control and fix orientation of the intermediate component and the surgical instrumentation retention component; wherein the structural member is an extramedullary or an intramedullary rod. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13 in which the surgical instrumentation retention component and the intermediate component are gimbals. 15. Apparatus according to claim 13 in which the structural member retention component and the intermediate component are gimbals. 16. Apparatus according to claim 13 in which at least one of the adjustment mechanisms is a worm gear and follower mechanism. 17. An adjustment apparatus for adjustably positioning surgical instrumentation relative to a femur, comprising: a. an index member adapted to be secured to the femur, said index member having a longitudinal axis, wherein the index member is an intramedullary or an extramedullary rod; b. a cutting guide adapted to assist in guidance of a resection device employed to resect bone from said femur; and c. an alignment module, comprising: i. an index member retention structure adapted to connect to the index member; ii. a cutting guide retention structure adapted to connect to the cutting guide; and iii. an intermediate adjustment structure coupling the index member retention structure and the cutting guide retention structure, the intermediate structure permitting the cutting guide retention structure to be adjusted and fixed in place in an infinite number of positions throughout at least the following ranges; a first rotational range relative to the index member; a first translational range relative to the index member; wherein the intermediate adjustment structure couples the index member retention structure and the cutting guide retention structure via at least one of a ball an socket mechanism, a gimbal, or a worm gear and follower mechanism. 18. An adjustment apparatus for adjustably positioning surgical instrumentation relative to a femur, comprising: a. an index member adapted to be secured to the femur, said index member having a longitudinal axis; b. a cutting guide adapted to assist in guidance of a resection device employed to resect bone from said femur; and c. an alignment module, comprising: i. an index member retention structure adapted to connect to the index member; ii. a cutting guide retention structure adapted to connect to the cutting guide; and iii. an intermediate adjustment structure coupling the index member retention structure and the cutting guide retention structure, the intermediate structure permitting the cutting guide retention structure to be adjusted and fixed in place in an infinite number of positions throughout at least the following ranges; a first rotational range relative to the index member, wherein the first rotational range is about the longitudinal axis of the index member; a first translational range relative to the index member; wherein the intermediate adjustment structure couples the index member retention structure and the cutting guide retention structure via at least one of a ball an socket mechanism, a gimbal, or a worm gear and follower mechanism. 19. The adjustment apparatus of claim 18, wherein the intermediate structure further permits the cutting guide retention structure to be adjusted and fixed in place in an infinite number of positions throughout a second rotational range. 20. The adjustment apparatus of claim 19, wherein the second rotational range is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the index member. 21. The adjustment apparatus of claim 19, wherein the intermediate structure further permits the cutting guide retention structure to be adjusted and fixed in place in an infinite number of positions throughout a third rotational range. 22. The adjustment apparatus of claim 21, wherein the rotational range is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the index member. 