Traumatic insult to the brain leads to a degradation of low molecular weight of cannabinoid type 1 receptor (CB1) and generation of high molecular weight complexes in the cortex and hippocampus, as assessed by both N-terminal and C-terminal specific antibodies. The formation and release of CB1 oligomers was dramatically increased into CSF within 1 hour following traumatic brain insult. Novel CB1 receptor-based, prognostic markers of traumatic brain injury and other forms of brain injury are disclosed. A method of repopulating damaged neural cells by proliferation of a subgroup of neural progenitor cells is described. Targeting CB1 receptors for therapeutic neuroprotection in TBI is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the presence of traumatic brain injury (TBI), comprising analyzing for cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) extracellular N-terminal and C-terminal biomarker proteins selected from the group consisting of 40-42 kDa, 62-64 kDa, 120-130 kDa, and >260 kDa monomeric or multimeric CB1 complexes in a cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), hippocampal, cortical or serum sample from a subject suspected of having TBI within and up to about 14 days from the TBI; and comparing levels of the biomarker proteins in a comparable sample from a normal subject; wherein levels of extracellular N-terminal biomarker CB1 proteins are decreased and levels of the C-terminal biomarker CB1 proteins are increased in the sample of the subject suspected of having TBI compared to comparable samples from normal subjects. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the 120-130 kDa protein biomarker levels are decreased within 3 hours of TBI in the TBI subject. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein accumulation of high molecular weight CB1 C-terminal domain molecular weight levels of oligomers with kDa greater than 260 in the sample from the subject suspected of having TBI compared to oligomer levels in a normal subject is indicative of TBI. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the oligomers with molecular weights greater than 260 kDa accumulate within 3 hours of TBI. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein high molecular weight CB1 C-terminal domain oligomers greater than 260 kDa accumulate within one hour of TBI with a gradual decline up to 14 days post injury in the subject having TBI compared to levels of the oligomers in normal subjects. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein TBI is indicated by a decrease in N-terminal staining and an increase in C-terminal staining of the CB1 complexes in cortex or hippocampus tissue samples compared to staining in a comparable sample from a normal subject. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing is with N-terminal and C-terminal specific CB1 antibodies. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample is cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), cortex tissue or hippocampus tissue. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the tissue sample is brain cortex or hippocampus. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the sample is CSF. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample is blood. 