Provided is a wallpaper printer having a media supply cartridge. The cartridge includes a media case, a media roll assembly rotatably located within the media case, and a roller assembly configured to operatively eject blank wallpaper from the media roll assembly and out of the case for printing with the wallpaper printer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A roll-fed printer having a media supply cartridge comprising: a media case, the media case having a molded top half and a molded bottom half, both halves defining arcuate slots; a media roll assembly rotatably located within the media case, the media roll assembly having a shaft received in the arcuate slots of the media case and a roll of media wound around the shaft; a roller assembly configured to operatively eject blank media from the media roll assembly and out of the media case for printing with the printer; and media roller support moldings provided at each end of the shaft, the media roller support moldings being restrainedly received in locator slots defined in the media case, wherein the shaft is provided with a notch at each end thereof to engage cooperating nibs on each support molding, the engagement of the notches with nibs restraining the shaft from rotating and permitting the media roll to rotate. 2. The roll-fed printer of claim 1, wherein the molded top half and the molded bottom half are hingedly linked by means of a hinges. 3. The roll-fed printer of claim 1, wherein the media roll assembly includes a roll of blank media wound about a hollow core which rotates freely about the shaft. 4. The roll-fed printer of claim 1, wherein the roller assembly includes a cartridge drive roller and an idler roller supported between ends of the case parallel with the media roll and maintained in proximity to one another and in registry with the shaft by the support moldings. 5. The roll-fed printer of claim 4, wherein the roller support moldings include resilient extension lunettes to engage cooperating grooves formed at the ends of the drive roller and idler roller so that the roller assembly is supported between the lunettes. 6. The roll-fed printer of claim 5, wherein the drive roller is slightly longer than the idler roller, with one half of the case having an opening which allows a spindle to rotate the drive roller via a coupling formed in an end of the roller, said opening serving as a journal for the shaft so that the idler roller remains fully within the case when the case halves are closed. 