The present invention is a spring based actuator with a leaf spring having a length, width and thickness and a coil spring positioned over the leaf spring. The coil spring further comprises: a first end; a second end; and at least one force generator acting on either the first end of the coil spring and the second end of the coil spring to deflect the coil spring and the leaf spring.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A variable stiffness actuator comprising: a leaf spring having a length, a longitudinal axis, a width, and a thickness, the leaf spring adapted to rotate about the longitudinal axis and sustain loads along the longitudinal axis; a first end; and a second end and wherein when the leaf spring is rotated about the longitudinal axis from at least one of the first and second ends, the bending stiffness of the actuator is changed; and a coil spring mounted concentrically around the leaf spring, the coil spring having a first coil spring end and a second coil spring end and wherein when a load is applied to at least one of the first and second coil spring ends the coil spring and the leaf spring can cooperatively deflect in a vertical plane relative to the longitudinal axis and wherein the coil spring inhibits movement of the leaf spring in a horizontal direction relative to the longitudinal axis when the load is applied to the at least one of the first and second coil spring ends. 2. The variable stiffness actuator of claim 1 wherein: the moment of inertia of the leaf spring is changed when the leaf spring is rotated about the longitudinal axis. 3. A variable stiffness actuator comprising: a leaf spring having a length, width, and thickness; and a first end; a second end; and at least one means for rotating either the first end of the leaf spring or the second end of the leaf spring or both ends to rotate the leaf spring to adjust a bending stiffness of the actuator, wherein the leaf spring is mounted concentric within a coil spring, the coil spring comprising: a first end; and a second end; wherein the coil spring inhibits lateral buckling of the variable stiffness actuator. 4. The variable stiffness actuator of claim 3, wherein a moment of inertia of the leaf spring is adjusted by rotating the leaf spring with respect to a cross sectional area and a bending stiffness of the variable stiffness actuator can be varied between a low value and a high value. 5. A spring based actuator comprising: a leaf spring having a length, a longitudinal axis, a cross-sectional area, a width and a thickness; and a coil spring positioned over the leaf spring to permit cooperative deflection of the leaf spring and the coil spring and whereby at least the leaf spring is rotatable about the longitudinal axis, the coil spring further comprising: a first end; and a second wherein when a force is applied to either the first end of the coil spring and the second end of the coil spring the coil spring and the leaf spring cooperatively deflect and wherein a range of thickness of the actuator is adjusted by rotating the leaf spring 90 degrees with respect to the cross-sectional area. 6. A spring based actuator comprising: a leaf spring having a length, a longitudinal axis, a cross-sectional area, a width and a thickness; and a coil spring positioned over the leaf spring to permit cooperative deflection of the leaf spring and the coil spring and whereby at least the leaf spring is rotatable about the longitudinal axis, the coil spring further comprising: a first end; and a second end wherein when a force is applied to either the first end of the coil spring and the second end of the coil spring the coil spring and the leaf spring cooperatively deflect and wherein a range of thickness of the actuator is adjusted by rotating the leaf spring with respect to the cross-sectional area. 7. A variable stiffness actuator comprising: a leaf spring having a length, a longitudinal axis, a width, and a thickness, the leaf spring adapted to rotate about the longitudinal axis and sustain loads along the longitudinal axis; a first end; and a second end and wherein when the leaf spring is rotated about the longitudinal axis from at least one of the first and second ends, the bending stiffness of the actuator is changed; and wherein the leaf spring is cooperatively mounted in parallel with at least one coil spring, the at least one coil spring having a first coil spring end and a second coil spring end and wherein when a load is applied to at least one of the first and second coil spring ends the coil spring and the leaf spring can cooperatively deflect in a vertical plane relative to the longitudinal axis and wherein the coil spring inhibits movement of the leaf spring in a horizontal direction relative to the longitudinal axis when the load is applied to the at least one of the first and second coil spring ends. 