Improved apparatus, systems, and methods for inspecting a structure are provided that use a probe having two ultrasonic transducer arrays. This enables simultaneous testing using two different test frequencies. The probe uses pulse echo ultrasonic signals at different frequencies to inspect the structure. The probe includes a support body having a fluid conduit formed therein. The fluid conduit provides flow paths for a couplant (such as water) that is used to couple the ultrasonic signals between the structure under test and the arrays. The fluid conduit is configured to quickly eject couplant and bubbles contained in the couplant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for non-destructive inspection of a structure, comprising: a support body; a first ultrasonic transducer array coupled to a first portion of the support body and configured to inspect the structure at a first frequency as the support body is moved over the structure; a second ultrasonic transducer array coupled to a second portion of the support body and configured to inspect the structure at a second frequency as the support body is moved over the structure; and a fluid conduit formed within the support body and configured to simultaneously disperse a couplant between a first longitudinal flow channel corresponding to the first ultrasonic transducer array and a second longitudinal flow channel corresponding to the second ultrasonic transducer array, wherein the first longitudinal flow channel and the second longitudinal flow channel are parallel and non-colinear, and wherein a fluid inlet is located between the first longitudinal flow channel and the second longitudinal flow channel. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, the fluid conduit being further configured to simultaneously disperse the couplant between the first ultrasonic transducer array and a surface under test, and the second ultrasonic transducer array and the surface under test. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: the first ultrasonic transducer array and the second ultrasonic transducer array being configured to simultaneously inspect the structure as the support body is moved over the structure; and the first ultrasonic transducer array being configured to inspect the structure for relatively low porosity using a relatively high frequency, and the second ultrasonic transducer array being configured to inspect the structure for relatively high porosity using a relatively low frequency. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a frame coupled to the support body, the frame comprising an attachment feature for a motion control device that moves the apparatus over the structure for inspection in a direction perpendicular to the major longitudinal axis of the first and second ultrasonic transducer arrays, wherein the major longitudinal axis of the first and second ultrasonic transducer arrays are parallel. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, the support body comprising a base having formed therein a first opening corresponding to the first ultrasonic transducer array and a second opening corresponding to the second ultrasonic transducer array, the support body being configured to hold transducers in the first ultrasonic transducer array away from the first opening and to hold transducers in the second ultrasonic transducer array away from the second opening. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, the fluid conduit being defined at least in part by space between transducers in the first ultrasonic transducer array and the first opening, and space between transducers in the second ultrasonic transducer array and the second opening. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: the support body comprising: a frame configured for supporting the first ultrasonic transducer array and the second ultrasonic transducer array; and at least one sled appendage configured for supporting the frame while traveling over a surface of the structure and rotatably connected to the frame; and a braking system capable of affixing the respective positions of the frame and sled appendage in at least a first direction of motion about a first axis defined by the rotatable connection of the frame and the sled appendages. 8. An apparatus for non-destructive inspection of a structure, comprising: a support body having formed therein a fluid inlet and a fluid conduit in communication with the fluid inlet; and a first ultrasonic transducer array coupled to a first portion of the support body and configured to inspect the structure as the support body is moved over the structure, the first ultrasonic transducer array comprising a first end, a second end, and a plurality of first transducers arranged between the first end and the second end; a second ultrasonic transducer array coupled to a second portion of the support body and configured to inspect the structure as the support body is moved over the structure, the second ultrasonic transducer array comprising a third end, a fourth end, and a plurality of second transducers arranged between the third end and the fourth end; and the fluid inlet being located between a first longitudinal flow channel corresponding to the first ultrasonic transducer array and a second longitudinal flow channel corresponding to the second ultrasonic transducer array, wherein the first longitudinal flow channel and the second longitudinal flow channel are parallel and non-colinear; the fluid conduit being configured to disperse the couplant between the first longitudinal flow channel and the second longitudinal flow channel, wherein the couplant flows down the first longitudinal flow channel from a location proximate the first end of the first ultrasonic transducer array to a location proximate the second end of the first ultrasonic transducer array, and wherein the couplant flows down the second longitudinal flow channel from a location proximate the third end of the second ultrasonic transducer array to a location proximate the fourth end of the second ultrasonic transducer array. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein: the support body comprises a base having formed therein a first opening for ultrasonic energy generated by the first ultrasonic transducer array and a second opening for ultrasonic energy generated by the second ultrasonic transducer array; the first longitudinal flow channel comprising chamfered sidewalls between the first end of the first ultrasonic transducer array and the second end of the first ultrasonic transducer array, the chamfered sidewalls terminating at the first opening; and the second longitudinal flow channel comprising chamfered sidewalls between the third end of the second ultrasonic transducer array and the fourth end of the second ultrasonic transducer array, the chamfered sidewalls terminating at the second opening. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first and second longitudinal flow channels terminate at a corresponding first and second relief port that is sized to restrict fluid flow relative to the first and second longitudinal flow channel. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, the corresponding first and second relief port being configured to accommodate ejection of at least some of the couplant, and gas bubbles contained therein, from the first and second longitudinal flow channel. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, the support body comprising: a base having formed therein an opening for ultrasonic energy generated by the ultrasonic transducer array; and a registration element configured to hold the ultrasonic transducer array away from the opening such that the ultrasonic transducer array defines at least a portion of the fluid conduit and such that the couplant fills a space between the ultrasonic transducer array and the opening. 13. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising: the support body comprising: a frame configured for supporting the first ultrasonic transducer array and the second ultrasonic transducer array; and at least one sled appendage configured for supporting the frame while traveling over a surface of the structure and rotatably connected to the frame; and a braking system capable of affixing the respective positions of the frame and sled appendage in at least a first direction of motion about a first axis defined by the rotatable connection of the frame and the sled appendages. 14. A system for inspecting a structure, comprising: a motion control system; a probe coupled to and moved by the motion control system over the structure in a direction perpendicular to the major longitudinal axis of a plurality of ultrasonic transducer arrays, the probe comprising: a support body having formed therein a fluid inlet and a fluid conduit in communication with the fluid inlet; the plurality of ultrasonic transducer arrays held by the support body and configured to simultaneously inspect the structure using a plurality of frequencies as the probe is moved over the structure; and the fluid conduit configured to simultaneously disperse a couplant between at least two longitudinal flow channels, each longitudinal flow channel corresponding to an ultrasonic transducer array in the plurality of ultrasonic transducer arrays; and data collection equipment coupled to the plurality of ultrasonic transducer arrays and configured to simultaneously receive, from the plurality of ultrasonic transducer arrays, test signals corresponding to the plurality of frequencies. 15. The system of claim 14, the support body comprising a base having formed therein a plurality of openings corresponding to the plurality of ultrasonic transducer arrays, the support body being configured to hold transducers in the plurality of ultrasonic transducer arrays away from the plurality of openings. 16. The system of claim 14, further comprising: a fluid delivery subsystem coupled to the fluid inlet and configured to deliver the couplant to the probe under a pressure and a flow rate, wherein the fluid delivery subsystem is configured to deliver the couplant at the flow rate of three gallons per minute. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein: the plurality of ultrasonic transducer arrays comprises a high frequency ultrasonic transducer away and a low frequency ultrasonic transducer array, and the data collection equipment is configured to independently receive a first set of test signals from the high frequency ultrasonic transducer array and a second set of test signals from the low frequency ultrasonic transducer array. 18. The system of claim 14, the probe further comprising at least one relief port for the fluid conduit, the at least one relief port being configured to accommodate ejection of at least some of the couplant, and gas bubbles contained therein, from the fluid conduit. 19. The system of claim 14, further comprising: the support body comprising: a frame configured for supporting the plurality of ultrasonic transducer arrays; and at least one sled appendage configured for supporting the frame while traveling over a surface of the structure and rotatably connected to the frame; and a braking system capable of affixing the respective positions of the frame and sled appendage in at least a first direction of motion about a first axis defined by the rotatable connection of the frame and the sled appendages. 20. A method for inspecting a structure, the method comprising: holding a probe against a surface of the structure, the probe comprising a high frequency ultrasonic transducer array, a low frequency ultrasonic transducer array, and a fluid conduit configured to simultaneously disperse a couplant between a first longitudinal flow channel corresponding to the high frequency ultrasonic transducer array and a second longitudinal flow channel corresponding to the low frequency ultrasonic transducer array, wherein the first longitudinal flow channel and the second longitudinal flow channel are parallel and non-colinear; simultaneously transmitting high frequency ultrasonic test signals to the high frequency ultrasonic transducer array and low frequency ultrasonic test signals to the low frequency ultrasonic transducer array; coupling ultrasonic signals between the high frequency ultrasonic transducer array and the structure using the couplant; coupling ultrasonic signals between the low frequency ultrasonic transducer array and the structure using the couplant; moving the probe across the surface of the structure; and processing a first set of detection signals from the high frequency ultrasonic transducer array and a second set of detection signals from the low frequency ultrasonic transducer array, the first set of detection signals being generated in response to transmitted high frequency ultrasonic signals, and the second set of detection signals being generated in response to transmitted low frequency ultrasonic signals. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the probe further comprises: a frame for supporting the high frequency ultrasonic transducer array, the low frequency ultrasonic transducer array, and the fluid conduit; at least one sled appendage rotatably connected to the frame and for contacting the surface; and an axial braking system for fixing the position of the sled appendage and in communication with a motion control system connected to the probe. 