An automated testing system includes one or more laboratory devices that operate together to perform an assay. The testing system is designed such that a laboratory device may be seamlessly integrated with the remaining devices in a quick and effortless manner. Specifically, the laboratory device is securely mounted on a slidable cart with fluid and electrical connections established therebetween. The slidable cart is in turn adapted to releasably engage with a docking station that is fixedly mounted on the workspace floor, the docking station being provided with at least one fluid input connection, an input power connection and at least one communication signal connection that are relatively permanent in nature. In order to couple the cart to the docking station, the cart is rolled generally into position above the docking station using complementary alignment posts and tracks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: a frame comprising: a plurality of wheels coupled thereto for supporting the frame on a surface, the frame configured to have a laboratory device for performing a particular function mounted thereto, and a first connector on a bottom of the frame, the first connector operationally coupled to the laboratory device; a fixedly mounted docking station including: a base, a top plate slidably mounted over the base, a second connector extendable from the top plate, and means for moving the top plate relative to the base to: a) engage the top plate with a bottom of the frame such that the plurality of wheels disengage the surface, and b) establish at least one of a fluid connection or an electrical connection between the first connector and the second connector. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the second connector is movable between a retracted position in which the second connector is covered by a movable cover and an extended position in which the second connector is exposed by the movable cover. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein, with the top plate engaged with the frame, both fluid and electrical connections are established between the laboratory device and the docking station. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the docking station comprises: (a) at least one fluid input port, each port being designated to receive the delivery of a particular fluid into the docking station, (b) an input power connector for receiving the supply of power to the docking station, and (c) at least one communication signal connector for transmitting communication signals to and from the docking station. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first connector on the frame includes a plurality of individual input fluid ports, each port being designated to deliver a particular fluid to the laboratory device. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the second connector on the docking station includes a plurality of individual output fluid ports, each output fluid port being designated to deliver a particular fluid to a corresponding input fluid port in the first connector. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first connector comprises an electrical connector that is electrically connected to the laboratory device. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the frame further comprises: (a) a top panel secured to the top of the frame, the top panel configured to support the laboratory device, and (b) a bottom panel secured to the underside of the frame. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the frame further comprises: (a) an alignment pin fixedly coupled to the bottom panel, and (b) a pair of symmetrical, spaced apart tracks fixedly coupled to the bottom panel. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the docking station further comprises: (a) an alignment block fixedly coupled to the top plate, the alignment block being shaped to define a groove; (b) an alignment post fixedly coupled to the base and at least partially protruding out through an opening in the top plate; and (c) a stop assembly fixedly coupled to the base, the stop assembly limiting the degree of displacement of the top plate relative to the base. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein, with the top plate engaged with the frame, the groove in the alignment block on the docking station fittingly receives the alignment pin on the frame to ensure accurate positioning between the docking station and the frame. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the tracks on the frame define a channel configured to receive the alignment post on the docking station in order to generally align the fame in position above the docking station prior to engagement. 