The present invention relates to molecules having a variant Fc region, wherein said variant Fc region comprises at least one amino acid modification relative to a wild-type Fc region. These modified molecules confer an effector function to a molecule, where the parent molecule does not detectably exhibit this effector function. In particular, the molecules of the invention have an increased effector cell function mediated by a Fc.gamma.R, such as, but not limited to, ADCC. In one embodiment, the variant Fc region binds Fc.gamma.RIIIA and/or Fc.gamma.RIIA with a greater affinity, relative to a comparable molecule comprising the wild-type Fc region. The molecules of the invention have particular utility in treatment, prevention or management of a disease or disorder, such as cancer, in a sub-population of patients, wherein the target antigen is expressed at low levels in the target cell population, in particular, in patients refractory to treatment with an existing therapeutic antibody due to the low level of target antigen expression on the cancer or associated cells.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modified antibody that binds an antigen, said modified antibody comprising a variant human IgG1 Fc region, wherein said variant human IgG1 Fc region comprises at least one amino acid modification relative to the human IgG1 Fc region of a parent antibody that binds said antigen, said amino acid modification(s) comprising amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R, such that said modified antibody exhibits, in an in vitro assay, detectable effector function activity mediated by said Fc.gamma.R binding in cells positive for said antigen, and said parent antibody does not exhibit said detectable effector function activity in said cells using said in vitro assay, said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consisting of the modification of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 2. A modified antibody that binds a HER-2/neu antigen, said modified antibody comprising a variant human IgG1 Fc region, wherein said variant human IgG1 Fc region comprises at least one amino acid modification relative to the human IgG1 Fc region of a parent antibody that binds said antigen, said amino acid modification(s) comprising amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R, such that said modified antibody exhibits detectable effector function activity mediated by said Fc.gamma.R binding in cells positive for said antigen and said parent antibody does not exhibit said detectable effector function activity; such that said modified antibody is therapeutically effective in a patient refractory to treatment with said parent antibody, said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consisting of the modification of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 3. The modified antibody of claim 2, wherein said modified antibody exhibits, in an in vitro assay, detectable effector function activity in cells derived from said patient, which cells are positive for said antigen, and said parent antibody does not exhibit detectable function activity in said cells using said in vitro assay. 4. The modified antibody of claim 1, wherein said antigen is a cancer antigen. 5. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2, wherein said antigen is expressed on the surface of a cell. 6. The modified antibody of claim 4, wherein said cancer antigen is MAGE-1, MAGE-3, BAGE, GAGE-1, GAGE-2, N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase, p15, beta-catenin, MUM-1, CDK4, HER-2/neu, human papillomavirus-E6, human papillomavirus-E7, MUC-1, CD20 or CD32B. 7. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2, wherein said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R comprise(s) a substitution: (i) at position 370 with glutamic acid, at position 396 with leucine and at position 270 with glutamic acid; (ii) at position 419 with histidine, at position 396 with leucine and at position 270 with glutamic acid; (iii) at position 240 with alanine, at position 396 with leucine and at position 270 with glutamic acid; (iv) at position 255 with leucine, at position 396 with leucine and position 270 with glutamic acid; (v) at position 255 with leucine, at position 396 with leucine, at position 270 with glutamic acid and at position 292 glycine; or (vi) at position 255 with leucine, at position 396 with leucine, at position 270 with glutamic acid and at position 300 leucine. 8. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2, wherein at least one of said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R is in a CH2 domain of said variant human IgG1 Fc region. 9. The modified antibody of claim 8, wherein said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R in said CH2 domain comprises a substitution at position 240, 243, 247, 255, 270, 292, or 300 with another amino acid at that position. 10. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2, wherein at least one of said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R is in a CH3 domain of said variant human IgG1 Fc region. 11. The modified antibody of claim 10, wherein said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R in said CH3 domain comprises a substitution at position 370, 392, 396, 419, or 421 with another amino acid at that position. 12. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2, wherein said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fe region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R comprises at least one amino acid modification in the CH2 domain and at least one amino acid modification in the CH3 domain of the Fc region. 13. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2, wherein said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R is in the hinge region of the human IgG1 heavy chain. 14. The modified antibody of claim 12, comprising at least one amino acid modification that alters the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R in the hinge region of the human IgG1 heavy chain. 15. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2 which variant IgG1 Fc region specifically binds Fc.gamma.RIIIA with a greater affinity than said parent antibody binds Fc.gamma.RIIIA. 16. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2 which variant IgG1 Fc region specifically binds Fc.gamma.RIIA with a greater affinity than said parent antibody binds Fc.gamma.RIIA. 17. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2 which variant IgG1 Fc region specifically binds Fc.gamma.RIIB with a lower affinity than said parent antibody binds Fc.gamma.RIIB. 18. The modified antibody of claim 15 which variant IgG1 Fc region specifically binds Fc.gamma.RIIB with a lower affinity than said parent antibody binds Fc.gamma.RIIB. 19. The modified antibody of claim 16 which variant IgG1 Fc region specifically binds Fc.gamma.RIIB with a lower affinity than said parent antibody binds Fc.gamma.RIIB. 20. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2 which detectably binds cells positive for said antigen, which antigen is expressed at a density of 200 to 1,000 molecules/cell on said cells. 21. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 3 wherein said effector function is antibody dependent cell-mediated cell cytotoxicity (ADCC). 22. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 3 wherein said effector function is phagocytosis, opsonization, cell binding, rosetting, complement dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity (CDC), or antibody dependent cell- mediated cell cytotoxicity (ADCC). 23. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 3 wherein said in vitro assay is performed using effector cells and target cells, under conditions in which the effector cell:target cell ratio is 10:1, 30:1, 50:1, 75:1 or 100:1. 24. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2 which is a monoclonal antibody. 25. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2 which is a chimeric, human or humanized antibody. 26. The modified antibody of claim 4, wherein said parent antibody binds Her-2/neu, CD 14, 17-1A antigen, Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor, .alpha..sub.v.beta..sub.3 integrin, CD-52, CD-22, or CD-20. 27. The modified antibody of claim 1 in which the antigen is associated with an infectious disease. 28. The modified antibody of claim 27, in which the antigen is a viral, bacterial or fungal antigen. 29. The modified antibody of claim 1 or 2, in which the parent antibody has immunomodulatory activity. 30. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the modified antibody of claims 1 or 2 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 31. A modified antibody that binds an antigen, said modified antibody comprising a variant human IgG1 Fc region, wherein said variant human IgG1 Fc region comprises at least one amino acid modification relative to the human IgG1 Fc region of a parent antibody that binds said antigen, said amino acid modification(s) comprising amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R, such that said modified antibody exhibits, in an in vitro assay, detectable cell killing in cells positive for said antigen, and said parent antibody does not exhibit detectable cell killing in said cells using said in vitro assay, said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consisting of the modification of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 32. A modified antibody that binds an antigen, said modified antibody comprising a variant human IgG1 Fc region, wherein said variant human IgG1 Fc region comprises at least one amino acid modification relative to the human IgG1 Fc region of a parent antibody that binds said antigen, said amino acid modification(s) comprising amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R, such that said modified antibody exhibits, in an in vitro assay, detectable effector function activity mediated by said Fc.gamma.R binding in cells positive for said antigen, and said parent antibody does not exhibit said detectable effector function activity in said cells using said in vitro assay, which in vitro assay is performed at an effector cell:target cell ratio of 75:1, said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consisting of the modification of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 33. A modified antibody that binds an antigen, said modified antibody comprising a variant human IgG1 Fc region, wherein said variant human IgG1 Fc region comprises at least one amino acid modification relative to the human IgG1 Fc region of a parent antibody that binds said antigen, said amino acid modification(s) comprising amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R, such that said modified antibody exhibits, in an in vitro assay, detectable effector function activity mediated by said Fc.gamma.R binding in cells positive for said antigen, and said parent antibody does not exhibit detectable effector function activity in said cells using said in vitro assay, which in vitro assay is performed at an effector cell:target cell ratio of 30:1, said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consisting of the modification of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 34. A modified antibody that binds an antigen, said modified antibody comprising a variant human IgG1 Fc region, wherein said variant human IgG1 Fc region comprises at least one amino acid modification relative to the human IgG1 Fc region of a parent antibody that binds said antigen, said amino acid modification(s) comprising amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R, such that said modified antibody exhibits, in an in vitro assay, detectable effector function activity mediated by said Fc.gamma.R binding in cells positive for said antigen, and said parent antibody does not exhibit detectable effector function activity in said cells using said in vitro assay, which in vitro assay is performed at an effector cell:target cell ratio of 10:1, said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consisting of the modification of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 35. A modified antibody that binds an antigen, said modified antibody comprising a variant human IgG1 Fc region, wherein said variant human IgG1 Fc region comprises at least one amino acid modification relative to the human IgG1 Fc region of a parent antibody that binds said antigen, said amino acid modification(s) comprising amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R, such that said modified antibody exhibits, in an in vitro assay, detectable cell killing mediated by said Fc.gamma.R binding in cells positive for said antigen, and said parent antibody does not exhibit detectable cell killing in said cells using said in vitro assay, which in vitro assay is performed at an effector cell:target cell ratio of 75:1, said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consisting of the modification of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 36. A modified antibody that binds an antigen, said modified antibody comprising a variant human IgG1 Fc region, wherein said variant human IgG1 Fc region comprises at least one amino acid modification relative to the human IgG1 Fc region of a parent antibody that binds said antigen, said amino acid modification(s) comprising amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R, such that said modified antibody exhibits, in an in vitro assay, detectable cell killing mediated by said Fc.gamma.R binding in cells positive for said antigen, and said parent antibody does not exhibit detectable cell killing in said cells using said in vitro assay, which in vitro assay is performed at an effector cell:target cell ratio of 30:1, said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consisting of the modification of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 37. A modified antibody that binds an antigen, said modified antibody comprising a variant human IgG1 Fc region, wherein said variant human IgG1 Fc region comprises at least one amino acid modification relative to the human IgG1 Fc region of a parent antibody that binds said antigen, said amino acid modification(s) comprising amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R, such that said modified antibody exhibits, in an in vitro assay, detectable cell killing mediated by said Fc.gamma.R binding in cells positive for said antigen, and said parent antibody does not exhibit detectable cell killing in said cells using said in vitro assay, which in vitro assay is performed at an effector cell:target cell ratio of 10:1, said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consisting of the modification of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 38. The modified antibody of claim 6, wherein said modified antibody is an anti-HER-2/neu antibody, an anti-CD20 antibody or an anti-CD32B antibody. 39. The modified antibody of claim 1, wherein said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consist of the modification of 1, 2 or 3 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 40. The modified antibody of claim 1, wherein said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consist of the modification of 4 or 5 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 41. The modified antibody of claim 2, wherein said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consist of the modification of 1, 2 or 3 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 42. The modified antibody of claim 2, wherein said amino acid modification(s) that alter the affinity or avidity of the variant Fc region for binding to an Fc.gamma.R consist of the modification of 4 or 5 amino acid residues of the IgG1 Fc region of said parent antibody. 