A technique for matching performance of ion implantation devices using an in-situ mask. In one particular exemplary embodiment, ion implantation is performed on a portion of a substrate while the remainder is masked off. The substrate is then moved to a second implanter tool. Implantation is then performed on another portion of the same substrate using the second tool while a mask covers the remainder of the substrate, including the first portion. After the second implantation process, parametric testing may be performed on semiconductor devices manufactured on the first and second portions to determine if there is variation in one or more performance characteristics of these semiconductor devices. If variations are found, changes may be suggested to one or more operating parameters of one of the implantation tools to reduce performance variation of implanters within the fabrication facility.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of matching performance between semiconductor manufacturing devices comprising: processing a first portion of a substrate with a first device; moving the substrate from the first device to a second device; processing a second portion of the substrate with the second device; associating the first and second portions with the respective first and second devices; and comparing one or more properties of the first portion to one or more corresponding properties of the second portion. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein processing a first portion comprises performing ion implantation on the first portion of the substrate. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein performing ion implantation on a first portion of a silicon substrate comprises performing ion implantation on a first portion of a silicon wafer. 4. The method according to claim 2, wherein processing a first portion and a second portion of a substrate comprises applying a masking apparatus between the substrate and an ion source. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein applying a masking apparatus comprises applying a masking apparatus having an aperture exposing the respective first and second portions while protecting the remainder of the substrate. 6. The method according to claim 2, wherein processing the respective first and second portions comprises scanning only the first and second portions of the substrate with a scanning ion beam. 7. The method according to claim 2, wherein processing the respective first and second portions comprises moving the first and second portions in front of a fixed ion beam of the respective first and second devices. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein associating the first and second portions with the respective first and second devices comprises identifying to a data processor that the first portion was implanted using the first device and the second portion was implanted using the second device. 9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising supplying the data processor with one or more operating parameters of each of the first and second devices. 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein performing parametric testing comprises performing at least test selected from the group consisting of (1) Ion or Idsat, (2) Skew in Ion, (3) Ioff, (4) a ratio of Ion to Ioff, (5) threshold voltage Vt, (6) reverse bias diode leakage measured at the drain when it is reverse biased relative to the well, (7) Coy, (8) Cd, (9) St, (10) Ring oscillator delay, and (11) combinations of these, for each of the first and second portions and comparing the measured values. 11. The method according to claim 8, wherein comparing one or more properties of the first portion to one or more corresponding properties of the second portion comprises performing parametric testing of at least one semiconductor device formed on each of the first and second portions of the substrate. 12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising comparing the results of the parametric testing between the semiconductor devices manufactured on the first and second portions. 13. The method according to claim 12, further comprising identifying, with the data processor, at least one adjustment to an operating parameter of either the first or second device based on the comparison of the measured values. 14. The method according to claim 1, wherein moving the substrate comprises automatically moving the substrate with an automated substrate handling device. 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein moving the substrate comprises manually moving the substrate from the first device to the second device. 16. An in-situ method of matching ion implantation tool performance comprising: performing ion implantation on a first portion of a substrate using a first ion implanter, wherein a first mask is applied to the substrate having a first aperture exposing the first portion; performing ion implantation on a second portion of the substrate using a second ion implanter, wherein a second mask is applied to the substrate having a second aperture exposing the second portion; measuring at least one characteristic value of each of the first and second portions; performing a comparison of the respective characteristic values of the first and second portions; and determining at least one adjustment to an adjustable parameter of either the first or second implanter based on the comparison. 17. The method according to claim 16, wherein determining at least one adjustment to an adjustable parameter comprises determining at least one adjustment to a parameter selected from the group consisting of ion beam angle of incidence, ion dose, and ion energy. 18. In an semiconductor fabrication facility environment consisting of a plurality of ion implanters, a method of reducing tool-to-tool performance variation comprising: applying a first mask to a semiconductor substrate, the first mask having a first aperture exposing a first portion of the substrate; performing an ion implantation process on the substrate with a first implanter; moving the substrate to a second implanter; applying a second mask to the substrate, the second mask having an second aperture exposing a second portion of the substrate; performing an ion implantation process on the substrate with the second implanter; measuring at least one characteristic value of each of the first and second portions; comparing the measured value of each of the first and second portions; and adjusting at least one adjustable operating parameter of either the first or second implanter based on the comparison. 