A laser induced thermal imaging (LITI) apparatus and a method of making an electronic device using the same are disclosed. The LITI apparatus includes a chamber, a substrate support, a contact frame, and a laser source or oscillator. The LITI apparatus transfers a transferable layer from a film donor device onto a surface of an intermediate electronic device. The LITI apparatus uses a magnetic force to provide a close contact between the transferable layer and the surface of the intermediate device. The magnetic force is generated by magnetic materials formed in two components of the LITI apparatus that are spaced apart interposing transferable layer and the surface of the intermediate device. Magnets or magnetic materials are formed in the two following components of the LITI apparatus: 1) the intermediate device and the film donor device; 2) the intermediate device and the contact frame; 3) the substrate support and the film donor device; or 4) the substrate support and the contact frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making an electronic device using laser-induced thermal imaging, the method comprising: providing a receiving apparatus comprising an intermediate product and a supporting device, the intermediate product comprising a receiving surface, the supporting device being configured to support the intermediate product, the receiving apparatus comprising a first magnetic layer; providing a film donor apparatus comprising a second magnetic layer and a transferable film layer, wherein each of the first and second magnetic layers comprises a magnet or a magnetically attractable material such that a magnetically induced attractive force is created between the first and second magnetic layers when arranged closely; arranging the receiving apparatus and the film donor apparatus such that the transferable film layer faces the receiving surface and that the transferable film layer and the receiving surface are interposed between the first and second magnetic layers; and approaching the film donor apparatus toward the receiving apparatus so as to create an attractive force between the first and second magnetic layers sufficient to make the transferable film layer contacts the receiving surface. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising transferring at least part of the transferable film layer onto the receiving surface by laser-induced thermal imaging. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising separating the film donor apparatus from the receiving apparatus, and wherein the at least part of the transferable film layer transferred onto the receiving surface remains on the receiving surface. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the film donor apparatus further comprises a substrate and a light-to-heat conversation layer interposed between the transferable film layer and the substrate, and wherein the method further comprises applying light to the light-to-heat conversion layer so as to generate heat therein and transfer the heat to the transferable film layer. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the attractive force maintains the transferable film layer to contact the receiving surface substantially free of bubbles therebetween during applying light to the light-to-heat conversion layer. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the magnet comprises an electromagnet, and wherein the method further comprises applying an electrical power to the electromagnet during applying the light. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic device comprises an organic light emitting display. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the transferable film layer comprises an organic material to form a layer of the organic tight emitting display selected from the group consisting of a light emitting layer, a hole injection layer, a hole transportation layer, an electron injection layer and an electron transportation layer. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is performed in a substantially vacuum atmosphere without breaking the substantially vacuum atmosphere during the steps of arranging and approaching. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the magnet comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of a permanent magnet and an electromagnet. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the magnet or magnetically attractable material comprises one or more forms selected from the group consisting of plates, chips, rods, and particles. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the magnetically attractable material comprises one or more materials selected from the group consisting of Fe, Ni, Cr, Fe.sub.2O.sub.3, Fe.sub.3O.sub.4, CoFe.sub.2O.sub.4, and alloys of two or more of the foregoing. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second magnetic layers comprise the magnet or the magnetically attractable material in an amount sufficient to generate a magnetic field from about 5 mG (gauss) to about 50 mG (gauss). 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the intermediate product comprises the first magnetic layer. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the supporting device comprises the first magnetic layer. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the film donor apparatus comprises a single integrated device comprising the transferable film layer and the second magnetic layer. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the film donor apparatus comprises a single integrated film donor device comprising a substrate and the transferable film layer, and wherein the film donor apparatus further comprises a contact frame configured to provide a weight onto the film donor device such that the film donor device is pressed against the receiving surface of the intermediate product. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the contact frame comprises the second magnetic layer. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein one of the first and second magnetic layers comprises the magnet, and wherein the other of the first and second magnetic layers comprises the magnetically attractable material. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the magnet or the magnetically attractable material is distributed substantially throughout the first and second magnetic layers. 