A printhead assembly is provided having a plurality of printhead modules each incorporating printhead integrated circuits having printing fluid ejection nozzles commonly supported by a one-piece printing fluid distribution member, and a casing in which the modules are removably mounted through removable engagement of the distribution member of each module with a support frame of the casing.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: a plurality of printhead modules each comprising a plurality of printhead integrated circuits having printing fluid ejection nozzles commonly supported by a one-piece printing fluid distribution member; and a casing in which the modules are removably mounted through removable engagement of the distribution member of each module with a support frame of the casing. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein each distribution member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein the distribution members have complementary female and male end portions configured to interconnect the channels of adjacent modules. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, comprising at least one fluid connector connected to the distribution member female or male end portion of at least one of the modules, the fluid connector for communicating printing fluid from a fluid supply to the nozzles of all of the modules via the interconnected channels. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein a sealing adhesive is provided at the interface of the connected fluid connector and module. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein the sealing adhesive is an epoxy. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein each module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the respective printhead integrated circuits, distribution member and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits. 8. A printhead assembly according to claim 7, wherein each distribution member has a plurality of apertures arranged to direct the printing fluid from the respective channel to associated nozzles in the printhead integrated circuits. 