A media web cartridge configured to store a media web and to be removably mountable to a printing system so as to introduce the media web thereto is provided. The cartridge has a shaft about which the media web is rotatably wound, a support member mounting the shaft to the cartridge so as to prevent rotation of the shaft relative to the cartridge, and a drive roller arranged to draw the media web from about the shaft so as to introduce the media web to the printing system when the cartridge is mounted thereto. A groove in the feed roller is engaged with a lunette of the support member and the drive roller is arranged to protrude from the cartridge so as to engage, and be rotated by, a drive spindle of said printing system when the cartridge is mounted thereto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A media web cartridge configured to store a media web and to be removably mountable to a printing system so as to introduce the media web thereto, the cartridge comprising: a shaft about which the media web is rotatably wound; a support member mounting the shaft to the cartridge so as to prevent rotation of the shaft relative to the cartridge; and a drive roller arranged to draw the media web from about the shaft so as to introduce the media web to said printing system when the cartridge is mounted thereto, a groove in the drive roller being engaged with a lunette of the support member, wherein the drive roller is arranged to protrude from the cartridge so as to engage, and be rotated by, a drive spindle of said printing system when the cartridge is mounted thereto. 2. A cartridge as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a hinged casing formed of two halves. 3. A cartridge as claimed in claim 2, wherein the drive roller is arranged to draw the media web from about the shaft so that the media web exits the cartridge through an interface defined between the halves of the casing when closed relative to each other. 4. A cartridge as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a handle. 5. A cartridge as claimed in claim 4, wherein the handle is a folding handle with respect to the cartridge. 6. A cartridge as claimed in claim 1, wherein the shaft is a hollow cylinder. 7. A cartridge as claimed in claim 1, wherein an internal diameter of the wound media web is greater than an external diameter of the shaft. 8. A cartridge as claimed in claim 1, wherein the shaft is provided with at least one notch that engages at least one nib of the support member to prevent rotation of the shaft. 9. A cartridge as claimed in claim 1, wherein the lunette of the support member is arranged on an extension of the support member which is received by a slot in the cartridge. 10. A cartridge as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an idler roller arranged to cooperate with the drive roller to draw the media web from about the shaft. 