An ultrasonic clamp coagulator assembly that is configured to permit selective cutting, coagulation and clamping of tissue during surgical procedures. An elongated portion of the instrument can be configured for endoscopic applications and has an outside diameter of less than 6 mm. The construction includes a clamping mechanism, including a clamp arm pivotally mounted at the distal portion of the instrument, which is specifically configured to create a desired level of tissue clamping forces, exceeding 4 pounds when the trigger is fully closed. The clamping mechanism includes a two-piece pad design and pad material that enables the higher tissue clamping forces and a force-limiting mechanism that effectively smooths out abusive tissue forces. The assembly also features hand activation configured to provide an ergonomical grip and operation for the surgeon. Hand switches are placed in the range of the natural swing of the surgeon's thumb, whether gripping the surgical instrument right-handed or left handed.
Claims I claim: 1. An ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus comprising: an ultrasonic waveguide having a proximal end and a distal end; an ultrasonically actuated blade attached to the distal end of the waveguide; a first tissue pad having a first tissue engaging surface; a second tissue pad having a second tissue engaging surface; and a clamp member defining a distal portion for receiving the first tissue pad and a proximal portion for receiving the second tissue pad and pivotable with respect to said blade and having an open position in which at least a portion of the clamp member is spaced from the blade and a closed position in which the clamp member is adjacent to the blade for clamping tissue between the first and second tissue pads and the blade. 2. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first tissue pad is formed from polytetraflouroethylene (PTFE) and the second tissue pad is not formed from polytetraflouroethylene. 3. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator in accordance with claim 1, wherein the second tissue pad is formed from a polyimide. 4. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator in accordance with claim 3, wherein the second tissue pad is formed from an about 30% polytetraflouroethylene-filled polyimide. 5. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator in accordance with claim 3, wherein the second tissue pad is formed from an about 30% polytetraflouroethylene-filled, and about 15% graphite-filled polyimide. 6. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first tissue pad comprises a first engaging surface having a first flange and the second tissue pad comprises a second engaging surface having a second flange. 7. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 6, wherein the clamp member comprises a slot for slidably receiving the first and second flanges. 8. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 6, wherein the first flange is T-shaped. 9. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 6, wherein the second flange is T-shaped. 10. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 6, wherein the first flange is wedge-shaped. 11. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 6, wherein the second flange is wedge-shaped. 12. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 6, wherein the first flange is T-shaped and the second flange is wedge-shaped. 13. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 7, wherein the distal portion defines a first slot for receiving the first flange and the proximal portion defines a second slot for receiving the second flange. 14. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 13, wherein the first slot defines a T-shaped cross section and the second slot defines a wedge-shaped cross section. 15. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first tissue engaging surface defines a saw tooth-like configuration. 16. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a rotatable element operatively associated with the waveguide, the blade and the clamp member, the rotatable member being rotatable to cause corresponding rotation of the blade and clamp member. 17. A method of assembling an ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus comprising the steps of: providing: an ultrasonic waveguide having a proximal end and a distal end; an ultrasonically actuated blade attached to the distal end of the waveguide; a first tissue pad having a first tissue engaging surface and a second engaging surface having a first flange; a second tissue pad having a second tissue engaging surface and a second engaging surface having a second flange; and a clamp member pivotable with respect to said blade and having an open position in which at least a portion of the clamp member is spaced from the blade and a closed position in which the clamp member is adjacent to the blade for clamping tissue between the first and second tissue pads and the blade, the clamp member comprising a slot for slidably receiving the first and second flanges; and slidably engaging the first flange within the slot and slidably engaging the second flange within the slot. 18. A method of assembling an ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus comprising the steps of: providing: an ultrasonic waveguide having a proximal end and a distal end; an ultrasonically actuated blade attached to the distal end of the waveguide; a first tissue pad having a first tissue engaging surface and a second engaging surface having a first flange; a second tissue pad having a second tissue engaging surface and a second engaging surface having a second flange; and a clamp member pivotable with respect to said blade and having an open position in which at least a portion of the clamp member is spaced from the blade and a closed position in which the clamp member is adjacent to the blade for clamping tissue between the first and second tissue pads and the blade, the clamp member comprising a first and second slot for slidably receiving the first and second flanges, respectively; and engaging at least one of the first and second tissue pads within the slot. 19. A method of assembling an ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus comprising the steps of: providing: an ultrasonic waveguide having a proximal end and a distal end; an ultrasonically actuated blade attached to the distal end of the waveguide; a first tissue pad having a first tissue engaging surface; a second tissue pad having a second tissue engaging surface; and a clamp member defining a distal portion for receiving the first tissue pad and a proximal portion for receiving the second tissue pad and pivotable with respect to said blade and having an open position in which at least a portion of the clamp member is spaced from the blade and a closed position in which the clamp member is adjacent to the blade for clamping tissue between the first and second tissue pads and the blade; and attaching at least one of the first and second tissue pads to the clamp member. 20. The method of assembling an ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus of claim 19 further comprising the step of gluing the at least one of the first and second tissue pads to the clamp member. 21. A method of assembling an ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus comprising the steps of: providing: an ultrasonic waveguide having a proximal end and a distal end; an ultrasonically actuated blade attached to the distal end of the waveguide; a first tissue pad having a first tissue engaging surface; a second tissue pad having a second tissue engaging surface; and a clamp member defining a distal portion for receiving the first tissue pad and having the second tissue pad engaged at a proximal portion of the clamp member wherein the clamp member is pivotable with respect to said blade member; and attaching the first tissue pad to the distal portion of the clamp member. 22. The method of assembling an ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus of claim 21 further comprising the step of gluing the first tissue pad to the clamp member. 23. The method of assembling an ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus of claim 21 further comprising the step of providing the first tissue pad formed from polytetraflouroethylene (PTFE). 24. The method of assembling an ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus of claim 21 further comprising the step of providing the second tissue pad formed from a polyimide. 