An automated pharmaceutical or biotech compound testing system uses a very small molded plastic shelf keeping unit or test tube known as a "minitube". The minitubes are stored in trays in a standing refrigeration unit and are retrieved by a machine or robot having a die cutting tubular end effector adapted to selectively cut away and remove a minitube from an integrally molded matrix containing hundreds of minitubes (e.g., 384). Upon cutting a selected minitube away from the matrix, the end effector is pushed down over the selected minitube, thus forcing the minitube into the cylindrical interior lumen of the end effector, where it is retained by friction fit until such time as the minitube is to be releaseably locked into a plastic receiving tray. Minitubes are stored in the plastic tray which is adapted to receive and releaseably hold or lock the tubes in place.
Claims I claim: 1. A unitary array of a plurality of miniature shelf keeping units, comprising: a substantially planar one-piece molded tray including a plurality of integrally molded tube structures, each of said tube structures having a selected outside diameter, said tray having an upper surface and a plurality of side walls carried in a substantially perpendicular orientation with respect to said upper surface; each said integrally molded tube structure defining a hollow cavity terminated at a distal end in a closed, fluid tight boundary and terminated at a proximal end in an opening in fluid communication with said tube hollow cavity; said tube proximal end openings being aligned in a plane that is substantially co-planar with said tray upper surface; and a pair of flexible circumferentially-spaced rabbit ear-shaped prongs projecting angularly downwardly and outwardly at the distal end of said tube, whereby when a tube is inserted in apertures of a receiving plate, the prongs are pressed radially inwardly to engage shoulder surfaces of a recess at the bottom of the apertures in the receiving plate to facilitate easy withdrawal and replacement of tubes in the apertures when performing automated testing. 2. A unitary array as claimed in claim 1 including a sheet of heat sealable material affixed to the open end of the array of mini tubes. 3. A unitary array as claimed in claim 1 including a generally triangular-shaped ridge at the open and of said tubes to facilitate hermetic sealing. 