A weather resistant modular sensor and computing platform reduces costs and enhances versatility of sensor systems. Rapidly evolving electronic technology results in hyper-obsolescence wherein sensor systems that are state of the art technology when designed, fall behind the art quickly as new transducers, batteries and components are developed. A cylindrical shaped modular system provides an architecture for up-grading sensors, batteries, special modules, communications, and control. A modular architecture extends the life cycle of a system and avoids hyper-obsolescence and the requirement to design a complete new system to incorporate new technology. Modularity and low cost manufacturing methods enable the practical definition of a cylindrical computer. The cylinder shaped enclosures have on their ends a common connection interface to which modules may be added. This provides a long system life cycle and wide ranging versatility. The size of the platform is not restricted. Larger systems are capable of supporting more sophisticated processing. A scaled up version of the modular platform provides an outdoor weather resistant community computing server.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A hand held modular sensing and computing platform comprising a computer, a keyboard, a display screen, a curser control device for selecting screen icons, a battery, a radio transmitter, a radio receiver, an interchangeable memory module connector for attaching added storage memory inserts, an added storage memory insert inserted in the interchangeable memory module, and a GPS receiver, contained within a hand held modular platform. 2. A hand held modular sensing and computing platform as claimed in claim 1 comprising a cylindrical enclosure. 3. A hand held modular sensing and computing platform as claimed in claim 1 comprising an elliptical enclosure. 4. A hand held modular sensing and computing platform as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a compass. 5. A hand held modular sensing and computing platform as claimed in claim 1 wherein modularity is extended to modules within a single enclosure module, said modularity comprising application specific integrated circuits and/or modular application circuit boards. 6. A hand held modular sensing and computing platform as claimed in claim 1 comprising enclosure openings to accommodate insertion of interchangeable mass storage memory inserts wherein said memory inserts contain mapping and navigation data and user support information. 7. A hand held modular sensing and computing platform comprising a computer, a keyboard, a display screen, a curser control device for selecting screen icons, a battery, a radio transmitter, a radio receiver, an interchangeable memory module connector for attaching added storage memory inserts, a GPS receiver, and a power generator module wherein user twisting of a grip moves said generator module to generate electrical power for operating said platform. 8. A hand held modular sensing and computing platform as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a communications encryption module for protecting data during operation. 9. A hand held modular sensing and computing platform comprising a computer, a keyboard, a display screen, a curser control device for selecting screen icons, a battery, a radio transmitter, a radio receiver, an interchangeable memory module connector for attaching added storage memory inserts, a GPS receiver, and a command and control software module configured to provide an interactive user interface with said platform, wherein said platform provides communications with remote radio equipped sensors and a platform operator can command and control said sensors from a remote location. 10. A handheld modular computer and communications platform comprising parent communications servers wherein said parent communications servers are first hop radio interface nodes serving a handheld modular computer, said nodes being connected to local and/or wide area networks and said servers relaying communications packets addressed to and from said platform, said platform comprising an end fitting for attaching accessory modules connecting said attachments to a platform computer bus, said platform also comprising a power supply and a control protocol for communicating with platform computer accessory modules. 11. A handheld modular computer and communications platform as claimed in claim 10 wherein said platform comprises a connector for accepting accessory modules that add functions to said platform, wherein platform system software recognizes an accessory module unique identifier within said accessory module, and said recognition software configures platform operational software to integrate said added accessory module function into a platform operational system. 12. A handheld modular computer and communications platform as claimed in claim 11 wherein said platform electrically downloads software from a remote network node, and said platform software receives, recognizes and integrates said downloaded software into said platform software operating system. 13. A handheld computing and communications platform comprising a digital camera, a flashlight, a digital memory, a Radio Frequency transceiver, a communications controller, a button, a switch, and a battery functioning together to provide a digital camera configured to store a picture in said memory when said button is depressed, and which transports said picture stored in said memory to a remote receiver by activating said transmitter. 14. A handheld computing and communications platform as claimed in claim 13 comprising additional light bulbs for brighter illumination of a subject. 15. A handheld computing and communications platform as claimed in claim 13 further comprising an LCD that can provide information to a user operating said platform. 16. A handheld computing and communications platform as claimed in claim 13 further comprising an interchangeable memory module for attaching expanded storage memory. 17. A handheld computing and communications platform as claimed in claim 13 which records audio information for radio transport. 18. A handheld computing and communications platform as claimed in claim 13 further comprising a reflector to project light toward the direction that said camera is directed. 19. A handheld computing and communications platform as claimed in claim 13 additionally comprising a lens over a camera lens, the lens being enclosed in a retainer mounted upon threads whereby twisting said retainer will adjust a focal distance of said lens and camera. 20. A handheld computing and communications platform as claimed in claim 13 wherein said platform is vertically mounted in a water resistant transparent enclosure. 21. A handheld computing and communications platform as claimed in claim 13 wherein said platform comprises a connector for accepting accessory modules that add functions to said platform, wherein platform system software recognizes an accessory module unique identifier within said accessory module when said accessory is attached, and said recognition software configures platform operational software to integrate said added accessory module into a platform operational system. 22. A handheld computing and communications platform as claimed in claim 21 wherein said accessory module is for chemical detection. 23. A method of customizing a handheld computing and communication platform comprising attaching an end fitting to a handheld computing and communication platform, said end fitting providing electrical and mechanical connection means, said connection means serving to facilitate incorporation of accessory modules, said modules comprising sensors and detection transducers that extend the operational functionality of the platform to include embedded computing systems within a module, said embedded systems independently operating to provide a platform function, wherein a module communicates with any other module also connected to said platform and modules installed on said platform make requests or provide service to any other module installed on said platform, said modules further comprising identification means to represent said module identity to be detected by said platform operating software so that said platform can incorporate any said module into platform operations, and accessory module functionality extends to sensors and detection transducers, radio modules, disk memory, ancillary processors, digital signal processors, cameras, audio transport, power supplies, actuators, GPS, generators, fuel cells, gas detectors, or computer controlled accessories, said platform also comprising an operator interface wherein said operator may use a platform keyboard with display interface or a radio interface for said operator to gain platform access and provide control from a wireless network node. 