The present invention provides a warning apparatus for an automotive vehicle. The apparatus includes an air pressure sensor mounted on a side of the vehicle. This sensor provides an indication which is a function of sensed local air pressure. A connection mechanism is provided between the sensor and an indicator which provides an indication of the pressure to a driver of the vehicle. The pressure sensor thus provides an indication, alert, warning or indicator with respect to the closeness of a passing vehicle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A warning apparatus for a vehicle comprising: an air pressure sensor mounted on a side of the vehicle said sensor being positioned to measure pressure changes induced by passing vehicles, said sensor providing an electrical signal which is a function of sensed air pressure; and means for providing an interpretation of said signal to a driver of said vehicle. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 in which said means is a directly wired connection to a signaling device within range of said driver. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 in which said signaling device is visual. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 in which said signaling device is auditory. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 in which said signaling device is tactile. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 in which said signaling device provides an indication of said pressure. 7. The apparatus of claim 2 in which, in addition to an indication of said pressure, said signaling device also provides a warning that said pressure exceeds a predetermined value. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 in which said predetermined value is selectable. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 in which means is analog. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 in which said means is digital. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 in which said means is a wireless transmitter receiving said electrical indication and transmitting same to a receiver which actuates a signaling device within range of said driver. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 in which said means comprises an electrically conductive wire connecting said sensor to a signaling device within range of said driver. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 in which said means comprises an electrically conductive wire connecting said sensor to a signaling device within range of said driver. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 in which said means comprises an optic fiber connecting said sensor to a signaling device within range of said driver. 15. The combination of a vehicle and the warning apparatus of claim 1. 16. A transportation mechanism comprising: an automotive vehicle; at least one air pressure sensor mounted on a side of said vehicle said sensor being positioned to measure pressure changes induced by passing vehicles, said sensor providing an electrical indication which is a function of sensed air pressure; and means for providing said indication to a driver of said vehicle. 17. The transportation mechanism of claim 16 in which there are a plurality of said sensors. 18. The transportation mechanism of claim 16 in which said indication providing means provides a separate indicator for each sensor. 19. The transportation mechanism of claim 17 in which said sensors are connected to said indication providing means via a common signal path. 