A fluid distribution system comprises a table configured to engage at least two microplates and moveable in an X-Y plane and in a Z direction toward and away from the X-Y plane. The fluid distribution system can comprise a dispensing head that comprises a plurality of dispensing tips adapted to dispense fluid to one or more locations of a microplate. A plate-handling device is provided to selectively pick up and deposit, substantially simultaneously, two or more of the microplates. The fluid distribution system can further comprise an accessory carriage configured to engage a source of fluid and move the source of fluid into a position adjacent the dispensing head in position for the dispensing head to aspirate fluid from the source of the fluid.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fluid distribution system comprising: a table adapted to engage at least two microplates in a side-by-side arrangement, the table being movable in an X-Y plane and in a Z direction toward and away from the X-Y plane; a dispensing head adapted to dispense fluids to at least one microplate while the at least one microplate is on the table; a plate-handling device adapted to selectively pick up a microplate from the table and deposit a microplate on the table, wherein the plate-handling device comprises at least two sets of jaws positioned one over the other, each set of jaws being adapted to grip a respective microplate; and a plate gripper associated with the table and adapted to grip a microplate when the microplate is engaged by the table and adapted to lift a microplate to enable a first set of jaws of the plate-handling device to deposit a second microplate underneath a lifted microplate, and to enable a second set of jaws of the plate-handling device to remove a lifted microplate from the plate gripper. 2. The fluid distribution system of claim 1, wherein the plate-handling device is adapted to grip a first lifted microplate and remove it from the table substantially simultaneously with depositing a second microplate on the table. 3. The fluid distribution system of claim 1, wherein the table further comprises a top plate comprising: at least two microplate nests for locating and holding the at least two microplates in a side-by-side arrangement; at least two ratchets adapted to engage and locate a respective microplate in a respective microplate nest and also rotate away from the respective microplate; and plate grippers adapted to grip a respective microplate and lift the microplate from the respective nest while the respective ratchet is rotated away from the respective microplate. 4. The fluid distribution system of claim 1, wherein the dispensing head is fixed in a stationary position. 5. The fluid distribution system of claim 1, farther comprising: a pair of linear motors provided to drive the table in directions parallel to the X-Y plane; and one or more of a pneumatic cylinder or a linear motor adapted to drive the table in the Z direction, wherein the Z direction is substantially perpendicular to the X-Y plane. 6. The fluid distribution system of claim 1, further comprising a microplate storage carousel, wherein the storage carousel comprises a plurality of racks adapted to hold microplates wherein the racks are arranged around the outer periphery of the storage carousel and are adapted to hold microplates in respective positions that are accessible by the plate-handling device. 