Methods for normalizing output from an instrument employing a reference standard or non-fluorescing substance disposed within at least one of a plurality of reaction chambers. The method comprises collecting and analyzing a signal associated with the reference standard or non-fluorescing substance to determine a normalizing bias. The normalizing bias is then applied to the data signal collected from a remainder of the plurality of reaction chambers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of normalizing spectral sensitivity from an instrument, the instrument using a microplate having a plurality of reaction chambers, the instrument having a plurality of filters, the method comprising: depositing a first reference standard into a first of the plurality of reaction chambers in the microplate, the first reference standard outputting a first reference standard signal; depositing a sample aliquot and at least one dye into a second of the plurality of reaction chambers, the sample aliquot having at least a portion of a polynucleotide sample, the dye outputting a data signal representative of the polynucleotide sample; subjecting the sample aliquot and the first reference standard to a testing regimen, wherein the polynucleotide sample in the sample aliquot is amplified, the first reference standard signal is emitted from the first of the plurality of reaction chambers containing the first reference standard, and the data signal is emitted from the second of the plurality of reaction chambers; collecting and analyzing the first reference standard signal relative to a predetermined level to generate a normalization bias; and normalizing the data signal relative to the normalization bias. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: depositing a second reference standard into a second of the plurality of reaction chambers in the microplate, the second reference standard outputting a second reference standard signal. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the collecting and analyzing the first reference standard signal relative to a predetermined level to generate a normalization bias comprises collecting and analyzing the first and second reference standard signals relative to a predetermined level to generate a normalization bias. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the at least one dye comprises a series dilution. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the at least one dye comprises multiple titration points. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the at least one dye comprises dye ladders. 7. The method according to claim 1 further comprises performing reverse transcription on the sample aliquot. 8. A method of normalizing data output from an instrument, the instrument using a microplate having a plurality of reaction chambers, the method comprising: providing a first of the plurality of reaction chambers in the microplate, the first of the plurality of reaction chambers being free from a fluorescing substance; depositing a sample aliquot and at least one dye into a second of the plurality of reaction chambers, the sample aliquot having at least a portion of a polynucleotide sample, the dye outputting a data signal in response to the polynucleotide sample; collecting and analyzing a signal from the first of the plurality of reaction chambers to determine a level of background correction to generate a normalization bias; and normalizing the data signal relative to the normalization bias. 9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising: depositing a non-template control in the first of the plurality of reaction chambers. 10. The method according to claim 8 wherein the at least one dye comprises a series dilution. 11. The method according to claim 8 wherein the at least one dye comprises multiple titration points. 12. The method according to claim 8 wherein the at least one dye comprises dye ladders. 13. A method of normalizing data output from an instrument, the instrument using a microplate having a plurality of reaction chambers, the method comprising: depositing a first control into a first of the plurality of reaction chambers in the microplate, the first control outputting a first control signal, the first of the plurality of reaction chambers being free of a polynucleotide sample; depositing a sample aliquot and at least one dye into a second of the plurality of reaction chambers, the sample aliquot having at least a portion of a polynucleotide sample, the dye outputting a data signal in response to the polynucleotide sample; collecting and analyzing the first control signal relative to a predetermined level to generate a normalization bias; and normalizing the data signal relative to the normalization bias. 14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising: depositing a non-template control in the first of the plurality of reaction chambers. 15. The method according to claim 13 wherein the at least one dye comprises a series dilution. 16. The method according to claim 13 wherein the at least one dye comprises multiple titration points. 17. The method according to claim 13 wherein the at least one dye comprises dye ladders. 