In the processing of mass-produced items that include a three-dimensional code formed therein, a system is provided for automating certain post-manufacturing processing steps. The system includes a printing mechanism that applies ink to the three-dimensional code to form an optically-readable code; a code-reading mechanism that reads the optically readable code and transmits a signal indicative of the code to a database that may be employed for tracking the processed items; and a transport mechanism that moves the items from the printing mechanism to the code-reading mechanism. In one embodiment, the system also includes a liquid agent application mechanism that applies a liquid agent to the items after the optically-readable code is formed. The transport mechanism includes a plurality of pallets on which the items are placed for processing, and that is operable to move the pallets sequentially to the several processing mechanisms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for the automated processing of items, each of which incorporates information encoded in a three-dimensional data matrix formed on the surface of the item, the system comprising: a printing mechanism operable to apply an ink medium to the three-dimensional data matrix to render the three-dimensional data matrix into an optically-readable code on the surface of the item; a code-reading mechanism operable to read the optically readable code and to transmit a signal indicative of the optically-readable code to a database; and a transport mechanism operable to transport the items from the printing mechanism to the code-reading mechanism. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport mechanism includes a rotary turntable. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport mechanism is a linear transport mechanism. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the printing mechanism comprises: a ribbon or tape provided with the ink medium; and a stamping head operable to press the ribbon or tape against the three-dimensional data matrix of an item when the item is transported to the printing mechanism. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a liquid agent application mechanism operable to apply a liquid agent to each item after the printing mechanism has applied the inking medium. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport mechanism includes a plurality of pallets on which the items are placed for transport to the printing mechanism, and from the printing mechanism to the code-reading mechanism. 7. The system of claim 6, further comprising a loading station operable to place at least one item onto each of the pallets. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein the liquid agent application mechanism includes a spray head operable to spray the liquid agent onto the items. 9. The system of claim 4, wherein the stamping head is operable at a stamping pressure that is maintained within a predetermined pressure range. 10. A method for the automated processing of items, each of which incorporates information encoded in a three-dimensional data matrix formed on the surface of the item, the method comprising: applying an ink medium to the three-dimensional data matrix to render the three-dimensional data matrix into an optically readable code on the surface of the item; optically scanning the optically readable code to create an electronic signal indicative of the optically-readable code; and transmitting the signal to a computer database. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising applying a liquid agent to the item after the inked medium has been applied to the three-dimensional data matrix. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising applying a liquid agent to the item after the optically-readable code has been scanned. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the liquid agent is applied by spraying. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the spraying is performed at controlled pressure and flow rate. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the liquid agent is applied by spraying. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the spraying is performed at controlled pressure and flow rate. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein the ink medium is applied by pressing an inked tape or ribbon against the three-dimensional data matrix. 18. The method of claim 10, wherein the items are processed in pairs, and wherein the ink medium is first applied to the three-dimensional data matrix of a first one of each pair, and then applied to the three-dimensional data matrix of a second one of each pair. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising applying a liquid agent to the items in each pair simultaneously after the ink medium is applied to the three-dimensional data matrix of the second item in each pair. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the liquid agent is applied by spraying. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the spraying is performed at controlled pressure and flow rate. 22. A system for the automated processing of items, each of which incorporates information encoded in a three-dimensional data matrix formed on the surface of the item, the system comprising: a plurality of movable pallets; a loading mechanism operable to load at least one item on each of the pallets as each pallet is moved to the loading mechanism; a printing mechanism operable to apply an ink medium to the three-dimensional data matrix of each item on each pallet to render the three-dimensional data matrix into an optically-readable code on the surface of each item on a pallet when each pallet is moved to the printing mechanism; a code-reading mechanism operable to read the optically readable code on the items on each pallet and to transmit a signal indicative of the optically-readable code to a database when each pallet is moved to the code-reading mechanism; and a transport mechanism operable to move each pallet from the loading mechanism to the printing mechanism, and from the printing mechanism to the code-reading mechanism. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the loading mechanism is operable to load at least first and second items on each pallet, and wherein the printing mechanism is operable to apply the ink medium sequentially to the first item and then to the second item. 24. The system of claim 22, further comprising a liquid agent application mechanism that receives the pallets after the printing mechanism and that is operable to apply a liquid agent to each the item on each pallet. 25. The system of claim 23, further comprising a liquid agent application mechanism that receives the pallets after the printing mechanism and that is operable to apply a liquid agent to the first and second items simultaneously. 26. The system of claim 24, wherein the liquid agent application mechanism includes a spray head directed at each item on each pallet. 27. The system of claim 25, wherein the liquid agent application mechanism includes a spray head directed at each of the first and second items so as to spray the liquid agent onto each of the first and second items simultaneously. 28. The system of claim 22, further comprising an unloading mechanism, wherein the transport mechanism is operable to move each pallet from the code reading mechanism to the unloading mechanism, and wherein the unloading mechanism is operable to remove the at least one item from each of the pallets. 