A robotic surface treating device that can perform carpet sweeping, hard-surface dry sweeping/wiping, and hard-surface sweeping/mopping is disclosed. The robotic surface treating device includes a sweeper brush, a dust bin for collecting debris from the brush, a reel-to-reel sheet of cleaning material, and a fluid delivery system for delivering fluid from a fluid reservoir onto the sheet of cleaning material and/or onto the surface to be treated. The dust bin, reel-to-reel sheet of cleaning material, and the fluid reservoir are separately installed from the top of the device, and may be separately removed for replacement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surface treating device, comprising: a dust bin; a sheet of cleaning material; means for moving the sheet of cleaning material relative to a surface to be treated; and a housing including a compartment having an open end for separately removably receiving the dust bin and the sheet of cleaning material; wherein the means for moving the sheet of cleaning material comprises a first roller suitable for letting out a roll of the sheet of cleaning material, a second roller suitable for reeling in the sheet of cleaning material, and a motor to cause the sheet of cleaning material to transfer between the first roller and the second roller; and wherein the means for moving the sheet of cleaning material further comprises a sensor for monitoring the sheet cleaning material let out by the first roller and providing feedback to facilitate automatic adjustment of the rate at which the sheet is being transferred from roller to roller. 2. The robotic surface treating device of claim 1, wherein the open end of the compartment faces upward if the device is placed on a horizontal floor. 3. The robotic surface treating device of claim 1, further comprising a fluid delivery system including a fluid reservoir. 4. The robotic surface treating device of claim 3, wherein the open end of the compartment separately removably receives the fluid reservoir. 5. The robotic surface treating device of claim 3, wherein the fluid delivery system includes a pump for delivering fluid from the fluid reservoir onto the sheet of cleaning material and/or onto the surface to be treated. 6. The robotic surface treating device of claim 1, wherein the means for moving the sheet of cleaning material further comprises a cartridge for mounting the first roller and the second roller; and wherein the means for moving the sheet of cleaning material further comprises a window for viewing a position of the sheet of cleaning material in the cartridge. 7. The robotic surface treating device of claim 6, wherein the open end of the compartment separately removably receives the cartridge. 8. The robotic surface treating device of claim 6, wherein the means for moving the sheet of cleaning material further comprises a platen for pressing the sheet of cleaning material against the surface being treated. 9. The robotic surface treating device of claim 6, wherein the cartridge is pivotally connected to the housing at a first end of the cartridge such that a second opposite end of the cartridge can move up and down when encountering changes in elevation in the surface being treated. 10. The robotic surface treating device of claim 6, wherein the cartridge is connected to the housing such that the cartridge can be positioned in an up position or in a down position below the up position. 11. The robotic surface treating device of claim 1, wherein the dust bin includes a flexible blade provided adjacent the dust bin and directed toward the dust bin to direct dirt into the dust bin from a sweeper brush coupled to the housing. 12. The robotic surface treating device of claim 1, wherein the dust bin includes a spring loaded door that closes over an opening in the dust bin when the dust bin is removed from the housing. 13. The robotic surface treating device of claim 1, wherein the dust bin includes a handle and means for removably securing the dust bin to the housing whereby the device can be picked up by the handle when the dust bin is secured to the housing. 14. A robotic surface treating device, comprising: a dust bin; a sheet of cleaning material; means for moving the sheet of cleaning material relative to a surface to be treated; and a housing including a compartment having an open end for separately removably receiving the dust bin and the sheet of cleaning material; wherein the means for moving the sheet of cleaning material comprises a first roller suitable for letting out a roll of the sheet of cleaning material, a second roller suitable for reeling in the sheet of cleaning material, and a motor to cause the sheet of cleaning material to transfer between the first roller and the second roller; wherein the means for moving the sheet of cleaning material further comprises a cartridge for mounting the first roller and the second roller; wherein the cartridge is connected to the housing such that the cartridge can be positioned in an up position or in a down position below the up position; and wherein the means for moving the sheet of cleaning material further comprises a level sensor for sensing changes in elevation in the surface being treated and means for moving the cartridge into the up position or the down position in response to signals from the level sensor. 