Methods, systems, and apparatuses for antenna designs for radio frequency identification (RFID) tags are described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A radio frequency identification (RFID) tag antenna comprising: a first arm formed on a substrate; a second arm formed on the substrate; a third arm formed on the substrate; a fourth arm formed on the substrate, wherein the first, second, third and fourth arms extend radially from a central location; a fifth arm formed on the substrate; a sixth arm formed on the substrate, wherein the fifth and sixth arms extend from opposite sides of the third arm; a seventh arm formed on the substrate; and an eighth arm formed on the substrate, wherein the seventh and eighth arms extend from opposite sides of the fourth arm, wherein each forms a 90.degree. angle with each adjacent arm. 2. The RFID tag antenna of claim 1, wherein the third arm has a length, the fifth and sixth arms intersect the third arm at more than half the length of the third arm from the central location. 3. The RFID tag antenna of claim 1, wherein the fourth arm has a length, the seventh and eighth arms intersect the fourth arm at more than half the length of the fourth arm from the central location. 4. The RFID tag antenna of claim 1, wherein the central location has a plurality of mounting pads for an IC die. 5. The RFID tag antenna of claim 4, further comprising: a first pair of parallel slots in the third arm extending along a portion of a length of the third arm; and a second pair of parallel slots in the fourth arm extending along a portion of a length of the fourth arm. 6. An antenna comprising: a first bar-shaped pattern formed on a substrate; a second bar-shaped pattern formed on the substrate, the first bar-shaped pattern intersects the second bar-shaped pattern at a central location; a third bar-shaped pattern formed on the substrate; a fourth bar-shaped pattern formed on the substrate, wherein the third bar-shaped pattern intersects the first bar-shaped pattern between the central location and a first end of the first bar-shaped pattern, and wherein the fourth bar-shaped pattern intersects the second bar-shaped pattern between the central location and a second end of the second bar-shaped pattern; a first pair of parallel slots in the first bar-shaped pattern extending along a portion of a length of the first bar-shaped pattern; and a second pair of parallel slots in the second bar-shaped pattern extending along a portion of a length of the second bar-shaped pattern. 7. The antenna of claim 6, wherein the third bar-shaped pattern intersects the first bar-shaped pattern at less than half a length from an end of the first bar-shaped pattern to the central location. 8. The antenna of claim 6, wherein the fourth bar-shaped pattern intersects the second bar-shaped pattern at less than half a length from an end of the second bar-shaped pattern to the central location. 9. The antenna of claim 6, wherein the first and second bar-shaped pattern are perpendicular to each other. 10. The antenna of claim 6, wherein the central location comprises a plurality of pads for mounting an IC die. 