An interface is provided to a user to perform a plurality of treatment planning operations associated with the treatment plan before the treatment plan is optimized. The treatment planning operations include at least one of selecting a treatment planning parameter or inputting data corresponding to the treatment planning parameter. One or more templates containing one or more pre-defined treatment planning parameters are provided to the user to enable the user to skip performing one or more of the plurality of operations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of developing a treatment plan for radiation therapy, comprising: providing an interface to a user to perform a plurality of treatment planning operations prior to plan optimization, the treatment planning operations including at least one of selecting a treatment planning parameter or inputting data corresponding to the treatment planning parameter; providing to the user one or more templates containing one or more pre-defined treatment planning parameters to enable the user to skip performing one or more of the plurality of operations, wherein the one or more predefined treatment planning parameters of said one or more templates are accepted or modified based on user input; and generating a treatment plan in response to receiving the user input. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more pre-defined treatment planning parameters relate to an anatomical region of interest. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more templates further contains one or more pre-defined treatment planning settings. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more pre-defined treatment planning settings are based on one or more past treatments. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more pre-defined treatment planning settings are pre-defined by a user. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more pre-defined treatment planning settings are pre-defined by a manufacturer of a treatment planning software that performs the above recited steps. 7. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more pre-defined treatment planning parameters relate to an anatomical region of interest. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the one or more pre-defined treatment planning settings are pre-defined by a learning process based on a previous treatment plan for the anatomical region of interest. 9. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more pre-defined treatment planning settings comprises a node subset. 10. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more pre-defined treatment planning settings comprises at least one of a number of stages, a treatment path set or a tracking method. 11. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more pre-defined treatment planning settings comprises at least one of a volume of interest (VOI) name, a VOI type, a minimum dose constraint for a VOI, a maximum dose constraint for a VOI. 12. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more pre-defined treatment planning settings comprises at least one of a level of an isocurve, color for displaying the isocurve on a two dimensional image, and a width of a line in pixels when displaying the isocurve on the two dimensional image. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising presenting a plurality of steps to the user, each of the plurality of steps having corresponding information and data entry. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein a first step of the plurality of steps comprises selecting a patient. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein a second step of the plurality of steps comprises selecting a primary exam. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein selecting a primary exam comprises selecting an image. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein a second step of the plurality of steps comprises selecting an additional exam. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein selecting a primary exam comprises selecting an image and wherein selecting an additional exam comprises selecting an additional image. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein a step of the plurality of steps comprises selecting a template of the one or more templates. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: receiving as input a user selected template; and loading a set of treatment planning parameters based on the user selected template. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the one or more templates contain one or more pre-defined treatment planning settings. 22. The method of claim 13, wherein the plurality of steps correspond to a load task. 