This invention is a method and supporting apparatus for autonomously capturing, servicing and de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, such as a satellite, using robotics. The capture of the spacecraft includes the steps of optically seeking and ranging the satellite using LIDAR; and matching tumble rates, rendezvousing and berthing with the satellite. Servicing of the spacecraft may be done using supervised autonomy, which is allowing a robot to execute a sequence of instructions without intervention from a remote human-occupied location. These instructions may be packaged at the remote station in a script and uplinked to the robot for execution upon remote command giving authority to proceed. Alternately, the instructions may be generated by Artificial Intelligence (AI) logic onboard the robot. In either case, the remote operator maintains the ability to abort an instruction or script at any time, as well as the ability to intervene using manual override to teleoperate the robot. In one embodiment, a vehicle used for carrying out the method of this invention comprises an ejection module, which includes the robot, and a de-orbit module. Once servicing is completed by the robot, the ejection module separates from the de-orbit module, leaving the de-orbit module attached to the satellite for de-orbiting the same at a future time. Upon separation, the ejection module can either de-orbit itself or rendezvous with another satellite for servicing. The ability to de-orbit a spacecraft further allows the opportunity to direct the landing of the spent satellite in a safe location away from population centers, such as the ocean.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic system for servicing free-flying spacecraft, comprising: a robotic vehicle provided to autonomously navigating to and capturing said free flying spacecraft, said robotic vehicle including; a multi-axis manipulating grappling arm, the grappling arm including an a grappling arm end effector on one end thereof, wherein said multi-axis manipulating grappling arm provides movement within at least six degrees of freedom relative to said robotic vehicle, and wherein the multi-axis manipulating grappling arm and is autonomously controlled by commands that are subject to manual override by an operator in telecommunication with the robotic system wherein said grappling arm end effector provides a positively connected power and data interface with said free flying spacecraft. 2. The robotic system according to claim 1, wherein said power and data interface to said free flying spacecraft facilitates telemetry and command data exchange and delivers electrical power between said spacecraft and said robotic vehicle. 3. The robotic system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one dexterous arm includes a first and second dexterous arm each having an end effector capable of motion within 7 degrees of freedom relative to said robotic vehicle. 4. The robotic system according to claim 3, wherein said set of interchangeable mechanism includes; at least one camera unit with lights, an Orbital Replacement Unit Tool Change-out Mechanism and a end-effector robot. 5. The robotic system according to claim 1, wherein said end effector includes an interchangeable mechanism capable of interchangeably replacing a set a tools thereon. 6. A robotic system for servicing free-flying spacecraft, comprising: a robotic vehicle provided to autonomously navigating to and capturing said free flying spacecraft, said robotic vehicle including; a multi-axis manipulating grappling arm including a grappling arm end effector on one end thereof, said grappling arm end effector including an interchangeable mechanism capable of interchangeably replacing one of a set a tools thereon for servicing said spacecraft; and wherein the multi-axis manipulating grappling arm and said grappling arm effector is autonomously controlled by commands that are subject to manual override by an operator in telecommunication with the robotic system, and wherein said grappling arm end effector on one end thereof provides a positively connected power and data interface with said free flying spacecraft. 7. The robotic system according to claim 6, wherein said set of tools includes; at least one camera unit with lights, an Orbital Replacement Unit Tool Change-out Mechanism and a end-effector robot each capable or replacement for repetitive servicing during spaceflight. 8. The robotic system according to claim 6, wherein said power and data interface with said free flying spacecraft facilitates telemetry and command data exchange and delivers electrical power between said spacecraft and said robotic vehicle. 9. The robotic system according to claim 8, wherein said multi-axis manipulating grappling arm and said grappling arm end effect provides movement within at least six degrees of freedom relative to said robotic vehicle. 10. The robotic system according to claim 6, wherein said multi-axis manipulating grapping arm and said grappling arm end effect provides movement within at least six degrees of freedom relative to said robotic vehicle. 