An apparatus and method for optically analyzing samples in a biological sample container containing samples arranged at different locations on the base of the container. An optical acquisition device is provided comprising a detector and an objective. The position of the upper and lower surfaces of the base at each of the sample locations is determined by a confocal polychromatic displacement sensor. Light is collected from each of the sample locations by adjusting the focal plane to be coincident with, or vertically offset from, the upper surface of the base, as determined from the displacement sensor. This allows for rapid scanning of large numbers of samples in a multi-well plate or other biological sample containers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for optically analyzing samples in a biological sample container, the biological sample container comprising a plurality of samples located at respective sample locations distributed over the biological sample container, each sample location being coincident with, or vertically offset from, a base of the biological sample container, wherein the base is defined by upper and lower surfaces, the apparatus comprising: a container station in which a biological sample container can be arranged; an optical acquisition device comprising a detector and an objective arranged to view a biological sample container arranged in the container station from below, the positions of the detector and objective collectively defining a focal plane for optical acquisition; a focal plane sensor arranged to view a biological sample container arranged in the container station from below and comprising: (i) a polychromatic light source operable to generate polychromatic light over a range of wavelengths; (ii) a focusing arrangement with defined axial chromatism arranged to focus respective wavelengths of the polychromatic light to respective pre-calibrated positions along an axis that extends through where the base of a biological sample container arranged in the container station would be; (iii) a detection unit comprising a spectrometer arranged to spectrally isolate components of said polychromatic light scattered from said optical axis; and (iv) a data processing unit operable to determine the position of at least one of the upper and lower surface of the base from the isolated components of the scattered polychromatic light output by the spectrometer; a positioning apparatus operable to adjust the focal plane of the optical acquisition device relative to the container station; and a controller operable to control the focal plane sensor, optical acquisition device and positioning apparatus to: (i) determine a desired focal plane for each sample location with reference to the determined position of the at least one of the upper and lower surface of the base at that sample location; and (ii) use the optical acquisition device to collect light from each of the sample locations with the focal plane adjusted to its desired setting. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the detection unit further comprises a confocal collection aperture arranged to pass light scattered from said optical axis to the spectrometer. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is operable to determine a desired focal plane for each of a plurality of the sample locations prior to collecting light using the optical acquisition device from those sample locations. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is operable to determine a desired focal plane for a sample location and collect light from that location using the optical acquisition device prior to moving to the next sample location. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is operable to take the focal plane for each sample location with reference to the measured upper surface position, if available, and otherwise with reference to the measured lower surface position. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is operable to take the focal plane for each sample location with reference to a support surface on which the base is in contact offset by a base thickness value computed from the difference between the measured upper and lower surface positions, if available, and otherwise with reference to the support surface. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the detector is an array detector for imaging the sample location. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample locations are defined by positions of wells in a standard well plate. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the container station is adapted to accommodate standard well plates having standard external dimensions. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is operable to control the focal plane sensor, optical acquisition device and positioning apparatus assuming that the biological sample container is a well plate having a standard number of wells distributed in standard positions over the well plate. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is operable to control the focal plane sensor, optical acquisition device and positioning apparatus assuming that the sample locations are positions of single cells or cell colonies provided by a cell or cell colony imager. 12. A method of optically analyzing samples in a biological sample container, comprising the steps of: providing a biological sample container containing a plurality of samples located at respective sample locations distributed over the biological sample container, each sample location being coincident with, or vertically offset from, a base of the biological sample container, wherein the base is defined by upper and lower surfaces; providing an optical acquisition device comprising a detector and an objective which collectively define a focal plane for optical acquisition; measuring the position of at least one of the upper and lower surface of the base at each of the sample locations by focusing a continuum of wavelengths of polychromatic light to a continuum of respective pre-calibrated positions along an axis extending through the base, and by collecting and spectrally decomposing those components of the polychromatic light scattered from said axis; and collecting light from each of the sample locations by adjusting the focal plane to be coincident with, or vertically offset from, the upper surface of the base based on the position of the at least one of the upper and lower surface of the base measured at that sample location. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the components of the polychromatic light scattered from said axis are collected through a confocal aperture to isolate the polychromatic light scattered from said axis. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the measuring step is carried out for a plurality of the sample locations prior to carrying out the collecting step on those sample locations. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the measuring and collecting steps are carried out at each sample location prior to moving to the next sample location. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein the focal plane for each sample location is taken with reference to the measured upper surface position, if available, and otherwise with reference to the measured lower surface position. 17. The method of claim 12, wherein the focal plane for each sample location is taken with reference to a support surface on which the base is in contact offset by a base thickness value computed from the difference between the measured upper and lower surface positions, if available, and otherwise with reference to the support surface. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein the detector is an array detector for imaging the sample location. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein the sample locations are wells of a well plate. 20. The method of claim 12, wherein the sample locations are positions of individual cells or cell colonies. 21. The method of claim 12, wherein light is collected from each of the sample locations by moving the sample container from sample location to sample location. 22. The method of claim 12, wherein light is collected from each of the sample locations by moving the optical acquisition device from sample location to sample location. 23. The method of claim 12, wherein the optical acquisition device further comprises a light source. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the light source is switched on and off to provide illumination for each image at each of the sample locations. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the optical acquisition device further comprises a camera with a shutter, and wherein light is collected from each of the sample locations by opening the camera shutter to determine the exposure. 26. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is operable to control the optical acquisition device and positioning apparatus to collect light from each of the sample locations by moving the sample container from sample location to sample location. 27. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is operable to control the optical acquisition device and positioning apparatus to collect light from each of the sample locations by moving the optical acquisition device from sample location to sample location. 28. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical acquisition device further comprises a light source. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the controller is operable to switch the light source on and off to provide illumination for each image at each of the sample locations. 30. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the optical acquisition device further comprises a camera with a shutter, and wherein the controller is operable to control the optical acquisition device to collect light from each of the sample locations by opening the camera shutter to determine the exposure. 