The present invention provides a robot for use inside an open abdominal cavity during minimally-invasive surgery. The robot may include various sensors, imaging devices or manipulators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic device comprising: (a) a positionable medical device body configured to be inserted through a port or incision, the body comprising an actuator; and (b) an arm means comprising: (i) a first arm component pivotally connected to the body at a first pivotal joint; and (ii) a second arm component pivotally connected to the first arm component at a second pivotal joint, wherein the body and the arm means are configured to be positionably disposed entirely within the cavity of the animal. 2. The robotic device of claim 1, further comprising a first actuator operably coupled to the first pivotal joint, and a second actuator operably coupled to the second pivotal joint. 3. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the first pivotal joint comprises first and second operably coupled gears and the second pivotal joint comprises third and fourth operably coupled gears. 4. The robotic device of claim 3, wherein the first, second, third, and fourth gears are bevel gears. 5. The robotic device of claim 3, wherein the first gear is connected to a first gear shaft associated with the body and wherein the second gear is connected to a second gear shaft associated with the first arm component. 6. The robotic device of claim 3, wherein the third gear is connected to a third gear shaft associated with the first arm component and wherein the fourth gear is connected to a fourth gear shaft associated with the second arm component. 7. The robotic device of claim 1, further comprising an imaging device associated with the body. 8. The robotic device of claim 1, further comprising a sensor associated with the body. 9. The robotic device of claim 1, further comprising an imaging device associated with the body and a sensor associated with the body. 10. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the cavity of the animal is a peritoneal cavity. 11. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the cavity of the animal is an insufflated cavity. 12. A robotic device, comprising: (a) a positionable medical device body configured to be positionable within a cavity of an animal and configured to be inserted through a port or incision; and (b) an arm comprising: (i) a first arm component pivotally connected to the body at a first pivotal joint, the first arm component comprising a first actuator operably coupled to the first pivotal joint; (ii) a second arm component pivotally connected to the first arm component at a second pivotal joint, the second arm component comprising a second actuator operably coupled to the second pivotal joint; and (iii) an imaging device operably coupled to the second arm. 13. The robotic device of claim 12, further comprising a controller operably coupled to the first and second actuators. 14. The robotic device of claim 13, wherein the controller is operably coupled to the first and second actuators via a wired connection. 15. The robotic device of claim 13, wherein the controller is operably coupled to the first and second actuators wirelessly. 16. The robotic device of claim 12, further comprising a sensor associated with the body. 17. The robotic device of claim 12, wherein the cavity of the animal is a peritoneal cavity. 18. The robotic device of claim 12, wherein the cavity of the animal is an insufflated cavity. 19. A method of performing a medical procedure with a robotic device, the method comprising: inserting the robotic device into a patient cavity, the robotic device comprising: (a) a positionable medical device body sized to fit within a cavity of an animal and configured to be inserted through a port or incision; and (b) an arm means comprising: (i) a first arm component pivotally connected to the body at a first pivotal joint; and (ii) a second arm component pivotally connected to the first arm component at a second pivotal joint; and manipulating a tissue within the patient cavity with the arm means. 20. A method of claim 19, wherein the manipulating the tissue with the arm means further comprises moving the tissue with the arm means to provide access to a target site in the patient cavity. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the manipulating the tissue with the arm means further comprises a user operating a controller to manipulate the tissue with the arm means. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the arm means comprises: (a) a first arm component operably coupled to the body at a first pivotal joint; and (b) a second arm component operably coupled to the first arm component at a second pivotal joint. 23. The method of claim 19, further comprising insufflating the patient cavity prior to inserting the robotic device. 