A device for simultaneously dispensing a solution containing a sample to a test device and aspirating the sample from the device. In one embodiment the device is hand-held and includes a control mechanism, e.g., button for activating the dispensing and aspiration of the sample. The testing device may take the form of a multi-well plate with a plurality of wells arranged in rows and columns, with the bottom of the wells formed as a photonic crystal biosensor. The device can be configured with dispense and aspirate manifolds and associated dispense and aspirate ports which are positioned in all the wells along a row or column of wells so as to simultaneously aspirate and dispense solution to all the wells in a row or column of the multi-well plate.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of simultaneously dispensing and aspirating a sample to a testing device having at least one well, comprising the steps of: positioning an aspirating and dispensing device having an aspirating port and a dispensing port proximate to the testing device such that the aspirating port and the dispensing port in the device are placed into the at least one well; activating a control mechanism to thereby cause a sample to enter the well via the dispensing port and simultaneously aspirating the sample from the well. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the testing device comprises a multi-well device having a plurality of wells arranged in rows and columns, and wherein during the positioning step an aspirating port and a dispensing port of the aspirating and dispensing device are placed into all the wells in a row or column of wells of the multi-well device. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the activating step is performed manually. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises the step of sensing the sample with a sensor selected from the group of sensors consisting of a) a temperature sensor, b) a pH sensor, and c) an ionic strength sensor. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the sensor comprises a temperature sensor and wherein the method further comprises the step of controlling the temperature of the sample delivered to the test device. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the sensing step is performed with a sensor placed in the sample well in proximity to the dispensing port and the aspirating port. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of making an optical measurement of the testing device simultaneously with the activating step. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the testing device comprises a grating-based bio sensor, and wherein the optical measurement comprises a measurement of a shift in peak wavelength value of a sample dispensed onto the surface of the biosensor. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of introducing a second sample onto the testing device during the activating step. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the second sample is introduced via an auxiliary injection port provided in the aspirating and dispensing device. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the testing device comprises a photonic crystal biosensor, and wherein the method further comprises the step of making a measurement of a shift in peak wavelength value from the biosensor during the simultaneous aspirating and dispensing of the sample. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of simultaneously dispensing a buffer into the well and aspirating the buffer and sample components previous bound to the well. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the testing device comprises a photonic crystal biosensor, and wherein the method further comprises the step of making a measurement of a shift in peak wavelength value of the biosensor during the step of dispensing and aspirating the buffer solution. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises a fluid sample containing at least one of the following: proteins, DNA, cells, virus particles, bacteria, low molecular weight molecules (substances of molecular weight<1000 Daltons (Da)), molecules having a molecular weight of between 1000 Da to 10,000 Da, amino acids, nucleic acids, lipids, carbohydrates, nucleic acid polymers, viral particles, viral components, and cellular components comprising vesicles, mitochondria, membranes, structural features, periplasm or an extract thereof. 