A novel CC-chemokine binding protein is isolated from the saliva of Rhipicephalus sanguineus. Compounds prepared in accordance with the present invention can be used as anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory compounds and in the treatment or prevention of CC-chemokine-related diseases.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An isolated polypeptide that: a) comprises SEQ ID NO: 5; b) comprises SEQ ID NO: 6; or c) a fusion protein comprising any one of a) or b) operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a heterodimeric protein hormone, a signal peptide, an export signal, or a tag sequence. 2. The isolated polypeptide of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide is post-translationally modified. 3. The isolated polypeptide of claim 2, wherein said polypeptide is glycosylated. 4. The isolated polypeptide of claim 2, wherein said polypeptide is PEGylated or coupled to a label or agent. 5. The isolated polypeptide of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide hinds to a CC-chemokine selected from CCL5 or CCL11. 6. The isolated polypeptide of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO: 5. 7. The isolated polypeptide of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide consists of SEQ ID NO: 5. 8. The isolated polypeptide of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO: 6. 9. The isolated polypeptide of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide consists of SEQ ID NO: 6. 10. The isolated polypeptide of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 5 operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a heterodimeric protein hormone, a signal peptide, an export signal, or a tag sequence. 11. The isolated polypeptide of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 6 operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a heterodimeric protein hormone, a signal peptide, an export signal, or a tag sequence. 12. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide according to claim 1. 13. The isolated nucleic acid of claim 12, wherein said nucleic acid encodes a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO: 5. 14. The isolated nucleic acid of claim 12, wherein said nucleic acid encodes a polypeptide consisting of SEQ ID NO: 5. 15. The isolated nucleic acid of claim 12, wherein said nucleic acid encodes a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO: 6. 16. The isolated nucleic acid of claim 12, wherein said nucleic acid encodes a polypeptide consisting of SEQ ID NO: 6. 17. The isolated nucleic acid of claim 12, wherein said nucleic acid encodes a fusion protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 5 operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a heterodimeric protein hormone, a signal peptide, an export signal, or a tag sequence. 18. The isolated nucleic acid of claim 12, wherein said nucleic acid encodes a fusion protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 6 operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a heterodimeric protein hormone, a signal peptide, an export signal, or a tag sequence. 19. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 12, wherein said nucleic acid is a cDNA molecule. 20. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 12, wherein said nucleic acid comprises SEQ ID NO: 3. 21. The nucleic acid molecule of claim 12, wherein said nucleic acid comprises SEQ ID NO: 4. 22. An isolated oligonucleotide that comprises a fragment of at least 30 nucleotides of a nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide of claim 1. 23. The isolated oligonucleotide of claim 22, wherein said oligonucleotide has a length of at least 50 nucleotides. 24. A cloning or expression vector comprising a nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide of claim 1. 25. The expression vector of claim 24, wherein said nucleic acid molecule is operably associated with a promoter. 26. An isolated transformed host cell comprising a cloning or expression vector comprising a nucleic acid molecule encoding a polypeptide of claim 1. 27. A process for preparing a polypeptide comprising culturing a host cell of claim 26 under conditions allowing or promoting expression of said polypeptide. 28. The process of claim 27, further comprising purifying the protein. 29. The process of claim 27, further comprising formulating the polypeptide into a pharmaceutical composition. 30. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a polypeptide of claim 1. 31. A method for immunizing an animal against a blood-feeding ectoparasite, comprising administering to said animal a polypeptide of claim 1 in an amount sufficient to induce an immune response. 