Techniques are described for using radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags to track patient-specific materials throughout the manufacturing of indirect bonding trays. A series of RFID tags may be used to track the patient-specific material starting with the taking of a patient's impression at a clinic within a dental impression tray, through the process of casting and forming the indirect bonding tray at a manufacturing facility, back into the clinic where the appliances are bonded to the patient's teeth, and eventually into storage where the left-over materials may be archived. A database may be used to capture unique identifiers for the RFID tags and other information throughout the process.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method comprising: forming a casting from a dental impression tray having an impression of a tooth structure of a patient, wherein the dental impression tray includes a radio-frequency identification (RFID) tag; associating an RFID tag with the casting; reading digital information from the RFID tag of the dental impression tray; programming the RFID tag associated with the casting with at least a portion of the digital information from the RFID tag of the dental impression tray while the casting is physically coupled to the dental impression tray; and storing digital information that associates the RFID tag of the casting with the RFID tag of the dental impression tray. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein reading the digital information comprises reading patient-specific digital information or a unique tag identifier from the RFID tag of the dental impression tray. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein programming the RFID tag associated with the casting comprises writing at least one of: a patient identifier uniquely identifying the patient, a model identifier uniquely identifying the casting from other physical models associated with the patient; a clinic identifier identifying a clinic at which the impression of the tooth structure was made, a tag identifier for the RFID tag associated with the dental impression tray, a date and time at which the impression of the tooth structure was captured, an identifier identifying a manufacturing facility where the dental impression tray was produced, and information identifying any personnel involved in the forming of the impression. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein storing the digital information comprises storing at least one of: a patient identifier uniquely identifying the patient, a clinic identifier identifying a clinic at which the impression of the tooth structure was made, a tag identifier for the RFID tag associated with the dental impression tray, a date and time at which the impression of the tooth structure was captured, an identifier identifying a manufacturing facility where the dental impression tray was produced, and information identifying any personnel involved in the forming of the impression. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein storing digital information comprises updating a database to include a model record that associates the RFID tag of the casting with the RFID tag of dental impression tray. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein updating the model record comprises: reading first digital information from the RFID tag of the dental impression tray; reading second digital information from the RFID tag of the casting; and updating the model record to include the first and second digital information. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first digital information includes patient-specific digital information or a unique tag identifier read from the RFID tag of the dental impression tray, and wherein the second digital information includes a unique tag identifier read from the RFID tag of the casting. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein associating an RFID tag with the casting comprises at least partially embedding the RFID tag within the casting while forming the casting. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein reading digital information comprises reading a patient identifier from the RFID tag of the dental impression tray with an RFID reader, and wherein storing digital information comprises writing the patient identifier to the RFID tag of the casting while the casting is physically coupled to the dental impression tray. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming an indirect bonding tray from the casting; associating an RFID tag with the indirect bonding tray; reading digital information from the RFID tag of the casting; programming the RFID tag associated with the indirect bonding tray with the digital information from the RFID tag of the casting while the indirect bonding tray is physically coupled to the casting; and storing digital information that associates the RFID tag of the indirect bonding tray with the RFID tag of the casting. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the digital information read from the RFID tag of the casting comprises patient-specific digital information or a unique tag identifier for the RFID tag of the casting. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein storing digital information comprises updating a database to include a model record that associates the RFID tag of the casting with the RFID tag of indirect bonding tray. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein forming an indirect bonding tray comprises placing one or more orthodontic appliances on the casting and flowing a quantity of matrix material over the casting, and wherein associating an RFID tag with the indirect bonding tray comprises at least partially embedding the RFID tag within the matrix material. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the orthodontic appliances comprise brackets, buccal tubes or sheaths. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein programming the RFID tag associated with the indirect bonding tray comprises writing at least one of: a patient identifier uniquely identifying the patient, a model identifier uniquely identifying the casting from other physical models associated with the patient; a clinic identifier identifying a clinic at which the impression of the tooth structure was made, a tag identifier for the RFID tag associated with the casting, a tag identifier for the RFID tag associated with the dental impression tray, a date and time at which the indirect bonding tray was produced, an identifier identifying a manufacturing facility where the indirect bonding tray was produced, information describing at least one orthodontic appliance coupled to the indirect bonding tray; and information identifying any personnel involved in the production of the indirect bonding tray. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein forming an indirect bonding tray comprises: inserting at least one appliance magazine within a robotic placement device, wherein the appliance magazine includes an RFID tag having digital information identifying a type of orthodontic appliance loaded within the appliance magazine; and accessing the RFID tag of the appliance magazine and the RFID tag of the casting to verify that the type of orthodontic appliance inserted within the robotic placement device matches a prescription for the patient. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: reading the digital information from the RFID tag of the casting; accessing a database to determine a prescription comprising a set of one or more orthodontic appliances based on the digital information; reading the digital information from the RFID tag of the appliance magazine to identify the type of orthodontic appliance loaded within the magazine; and comparing the set of orthodontic appliances of the prescription with the type of appliance loaded within the magazine. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the tooth structure comprises a plurality of teeth, the method further comprising verifying that the type of orthodontic appliance inserted within the robotic placement device matches a prescription for the patient for each of the teeth. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising: scanning the casting to generate digital data that provides a three-dimensional (3D) representation of the tooth structure; and updating a database to include a model record that associates a unique identifier for the RFID tag of the casting with the digital data. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: communicating the digital data to a clinic via a computer network; receiving prescription data and appliance location data from the clinic via the network; and updating the database to associate the prescription data and the appliance location data with the model record. 21. The method of claim 1, further comprising: scanning the dental impression tray to generate digital data that provides a three-dimensional (3D) representation of the tooth structure; and updating a database to include a model record that associates a unique identifier for the RFID tag of the dental impression tray with the digital data. 