A surface inspection system, as well as related components and methods, are provided. The surface inspection system includes a beam source subsystem, a beam scanning subsystem, a workpiece movement subsystem, an optical collection and detection subsystem, and a processing subsystem. The system features a variable polarization a polarizing relay assembly arranged to selectively permit the scattered light having a selected polarization orientation to pass along a detector optical axis to a light detection unit in the detection subsystem. They system also features a collector output width varying subsystem for varying the width of an output slit in response to changes in the location of the location scanned on the workpiece.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An optical collection and detection system for use in a surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system having an incident beam projected through a back quartersphere and toward a desired location on the surface to impinge thereon to create reflected light and scattered light that is collected by a plurality of collector modules, the output from which is analyzed individually or in combinations, the optical collection and detection system comprising: a detection subsystem operatively coupled to a collector module, the detection subsystem having at least one light detection unit that is arranged to detect the scattered light collected by the collector module and generate signals in response; a polarizing relay assembly positioned between the workpiece surface and the light detection unit arranged to selectively permit the scattered light having a selected polarization orientation to pass therethrough along at least one detector optical axis to the at least one light detection unit, wherein the polarization relay assembly comprises a rotating carousel polarization analyzer with a rotating carousel that contains a plurality of glass cubes. 2. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein one of the glass cubes is oriented in a fixed polarization state along the detector optical axis, to pass the scattered light of a fixed polarization orientation into the detection subsystem. 3. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the selected polarization orientation includes an unpolarized state, and the polarization relay assembly includes an unpolarizing cube. 4. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the selected polarization orientation includes an S-polarized state, and the polarization relay assembly includes an S-polarizing cube. 5. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the selected polarization orientation includes a P-polarized state, and the polarization relay assembly includes a P-polarizing cube. 6. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the detection subsystem has a first light detection unit and a second light detection unit; and wherein the polarizing assembly includes a dual channel polarizing assembly that is arranged to contemporaneously permit the passage of scattered light to the first light detection unit and the second light detection unit. 7. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the rotating carousel selectively moves one of the plurality of cubes into the beam path. 8. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 7, wherein the plurality of cubes comprises three cubes. 9. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 8, wherein the three cubes comprise: one polarization beamsplitter cube oriented for local P-polarization; one polarization beamsplitter cube oriented for S-polarization; and one non-polarizing cube for unpolarized light. 10. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the rotating carousel polarization analyzer with a rotating carousel is motor driven. 11. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 6, wherein the dual channel polarizing assembly includes a fixed polarizing beamsplitter cube. 12. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 11, wherein the fixed polarizing beamsplitter cube transmits polarized light of a first selected polarization orientation to the first light detection unit and transmits polarized light of a second selected polarization orientation to the second light detection unit. 13. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 12, wherein the first selected polarization orientation is the compliment of the second polarization orientation. 14. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 13, wherein the first selected polarization orientation is P-polarization and the second polarization orientation is S-polarization. 15. An optical collection and detection system for use in a surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system having an incident beam projected through a back quartersphere and toward a desired location on the surface to impinge thereon to create reflected light and scattered light that is collected by a plurality of collector modules, the output from which is analyzed individually or in combinations, the optical collection and detection system comprising: a detection subsystem operatively coupled to a collector module, the detection subsystem having at least one light detection unit that is arranged to detect the scattered light collected by the collector module and generate signals in response, and a polarizing relay assembly positioned between the workpiece surface and the light detection unit arranged to selectively permit the scattered light having a selected polarization orientation to pass therethrough along at least one detector optical axis to the at least one light detection unit, wherein the polarization relay assembly further comprises a virtual mask, and the virtual mask comprises a light absorbing glass mask optically bonded to the glass cube or a black anodized aluminum sheet metal mask positioned at a known optical imagining position in the at least one detection unit. 16. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 15, wherein the virtual mask is bonded to the glass cube with index matching optical cement. 17. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 15, wherein the polarizing relay assembly further comprises a slit through which light travels, wherein the slit is positioned between objectives lens and the glass cube and wherein the virtual mask is located after the slit. 18. An optical collection and detection system for use in a surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system having an incident beam projected through a back quartersphere and toward a desired location on the surface to impinge thereon to create reflected light and scattered light that is collected by a plurality of collector modules, the output from which is analyzed individually or in combinations, the optical collection and detection system comprising: a detection subsystem operatively coupled to a collector module, the detection subsystem having at least one light detection unit that is arranged to detect the scattered light collected by the collector module and generate signals in response, and a polarizing relay assembly positioned between the workpiece surface and the light detection unit arranged to selectively permit the scattered light having a selected polarization orientation to pass therethrough along at least one detector optical axis to the at least one light detection unit, wherein the polarizing relay assembly further comprises a virtual mask positioned along a first detection path and a virtual mask positioned along a second detection path, the virtual mask comprises a light absorbing glass mask optically bonded to the glass cube or a black anodized aluminum sheet metal masks positioned at a known optical imagining position in the first detection unit and the second detection unit. 19. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 18, wherein the virtual masks are bonded to the glass cube with index matching optical cement. 20. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 18, wherein the polarizing relay assembly further comprises a slit through which light travels, wherein the slit is positioned between objectives lens and the glass cube and wherein the virtual masks are located after the slit. 