A system 10 for storing and processing a plurality of biological or chemical samples at ultra-low temperatures is provided. The system 10 comprises a plurality of ultra-low temperature storage locations 30; an enclosed pathway 35 adjacent the storage locations 30; and a manipulator module 60 disposed within the pathway 35 for conveying vessels 33 along the pathway 35 between the storage locations 30 in the system 10. Each of the storage locations being accessed through an insulated access panel 36 on the side of the storage location 30, the panel 36 being configured to close the storage location 30 from the pathway 35.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for storing and processing a plurality of biological or chemical samples at ultra-low temperatures, the system comprising: a plurality of ultra-low temperature storage locations; an enclosed pathway adjacent the storage locations; a manipulator module disposed within the pathway for conveying vessels along the pathway between the storage locations in the system; and characterized by each of the storage locations being accessed through an insulated access panel on the side of the storage location, the panel being configured to close the storage location from the pathway. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the temperature of the pathway is maintained between ultra-low temperatures and the external environment. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the storage locations are maintained at approximately -80.degree. C. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the temperature of the pathway is approximately -20.degree. C. 5. The system according to claim 1, further comprising at least one module for housing the storage locations. 6. An enclosure for storing and processing a plurality of biological or chemical samples at ultra-low temperatures, the enclosure comprising: walls to close the enclosure; a plurality of modules defined by walls wherein each module comprises a plurality of compartments and is maintained, in use, at about -80.degree. C.; a pathway maintained, in use, at about -20.degree. C. and situated adjacent the modules; wherein walls of the enclosure are separated from the walls of the modules. 7. The enclosure according to claim 6, further comprising a manipulator module disposed within the pathway for conveying vessels along the pathway between the storage locations in the system. 8. The enclosure according to claim 6, wherein the compartments filled, in use, by drawers with integral access panels. 9. The enclosure to claim 6, wherein the compartments are filled, in use, by trays closed by separate access panels. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein the access panel is pivotable, removable or slidable to enable the manipulator module to access the storage locations horizontally. 11. The system according to claim 5, wherein the modules are maintained at a maximum dewpoint of -40.degree. C. 12. The system according to claim 1, wherein the manipulator module has an insulated surround in which samples can be maintained at ultra-low temperatures. 13. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a picker mounted with the manipulator module. 14. The system according to claim 1, wherein pathway includes an area in which the manipulator module can be "parked". 15. The enclosure according to claim 9, wherein the access panel is pivotable, removable or slidable to enable the manipulator module to access the storage locations horizontally. 16. The enclosure according to claim 9, wherein the modules are maintained at a maximum dewpoint of -40.degree. C. 17. The enclosure according to claim 6, wherein the manipulator module has an insulated surround in which samples can be maintained at ultra-low temperatures. 18. The enclosure according to claim 6, further comprising a picker mounted with the manipulator module. 19. The enclosure according to claim 6, wherein pathway includes an area in which the manipulator module can be "parked". 