The present invention provides devices and structures and methods of use thereof in electrochemical actuation. This invention provides electrochemical actuators, which are based, inter-alia, on an electric field-driven intercalation or alloying of high-modulus inorganic compounds, which can produce large and reversible volume changes, providing high actuation energy density, high actuation authority and large free strain.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode, positive electrode, or combination thereof comprises aluminum, silver, gold, boron, bismuth, gallium, germanium, indium, lead, antimony, silicon, tin, or a combination thereof, and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 2. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein said volumetric or dimensional change is in said negative electrode or said positive electrode or a combination thereof. 3. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein said negative electrode or positive electrode undergoes a phase change, anisotropic expansion or anisotropic contraction upon intercalation. 4. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein said negative electrode, positive electrode, or combination thereof is lithium or a lithium-metal alloy, which may be crystalline, nanocrystalline, or amorphous. 5. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein an electrode comprises carbon in the form of graphite, a carbon fiber structure, a glassy carbon structure, a highly oriented pyrolytic graphite, a disordered carbon structure or a combination thereof. 6. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein the intercalating species is an ion. 7. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein the intercalating species is a proton or an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal. 8. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein said negative electrode, positive electrode, or combination thereof comprises a porous aggregate of particles. 9. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, further comprising a porous separator. 10. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises aluminum, silver, gold, boron, bismuth, gallium, germanium, indium, lead, antimony, silicon, tin, or a combination thereof. 11. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises aluminum. 12. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4 wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises silver. 13. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises gold. 14. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises boron. 15. The electro chemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises bismuth. 16. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises gallium. 17. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises germanium. 18. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises indium. 19. The electro chemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises lead. 20. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises antimony. 21. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises silicon. 22. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises tin. 23. An electrochemical pump for pumping a subject fluid, comprising: a pump arranged to pump the subject fluid; an electrochemical actuator comprising a negative electrode, a positive electrode, and an intercalating species, wherein said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current whereby application of said voltage or current or cessation thereof induces intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes, resulting in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator or one of said electrodes is initially enriched in and serves as a source of said intercalation species whereupon de-intercalation of said species results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator, wherein the pump is coupled to the actuator such that the volumetric and/or dimensional change of the actuator causes the pump to pump the subject fluid. 24. An electrochemical pump as in claim 23, wherein the volumetric or dimensional change occurs upon discharge of the actuator. 25. An electrochemical pump as in claim 23, wherein the volumetric or dimensional change occurs upon charge of the actuator. 26. An electrochemical pump as in claim 23, wherein at least one electrode comprises lithium. 27. An electrochemical pump as in claim 23, wherein at least one electrode comprises a lithium alloy. 28. An electrochemical pump as in claim 23, wherein the electrochemical actuator is provided in a charged state and is not connected to an external power supply. 29. An electrochemical pump as in claim 23, wherein the electrochemical actuator is provided in a discharged state and is connected to an external power supply. 30. An electrochemical pump as in claim 23, wherein the electrochemical cell further comprises an electrolyte, the volumetric and/or dimensional change of the actuator causes direct displacement of a portion of the pump to cause the pump to pump the subject fluid. 31. An electrochemical pump as in claim 23, wherein the electrochemical cell further comprises an electrolyte, and the volumetric and/or dimensional change of the actuator causes displacement of a hydraulic fluid, such that displacement of the hydraulic fluid causes the pump to pump the subject fluid. 32. An electrochemical pump as in claim 31, wherein the hydraulic fluid is the electrolyte. 33. An electrochemical pump as in claim 31, wherein the hydraulic fluid is not the electrolyte. 34. An electrochemical pump as in claim 23, wherein the volumetric or dimensional change occurs in the negative electrode. 35. An electrochemical pump as in claim 23, wherein the volumetric or dimensional change occurs in the positive electrode. 36. An electrochemical pump as in claim 23, wherein the volumetric or dimensional change occurs in both the negative electrode and the positive electrode. 37. A one-use, disposable electrochemical pump for pumping a subject fluid, comprising: a pump arranged to pump the subject fluid; an electrochemical actuator comprising a negative electrode, a positive electrode, and an intercalating species, wherein said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current whereby application of said voltage or current or cessation thereof induces intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes, resulting in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator, wherein the pump is coupled to the actuator such that the volumetric and/or dimensional change of the actuator causes the pump to pump the subject fluid. 38. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode, positive electrode, or combination thereof comprises a porous aggregate of particles; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 39. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; c. an intercalating species; and d. a porous separator; wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 40. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises aluminum, silver, gold, boron, bismuth, gallium, germanium, indium, lead, antimony, silicon, tin, or a combination thereof; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 41. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises aluminum; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 42. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises silver; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 43. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises gold; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 44. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises boron; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 45. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises bismuth; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 46. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises gallium; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 47. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises germanium; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 48. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises indium; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 49. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises lead; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 50. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises antimony; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 51. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises tin; and wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or de-intercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 