Medical, surgical, and/or robotic devices and systems often including offset remote center parallelogram manipulator linkage assemblies which constrains a position of a surgical instrument during minimally invasive robotic surgery are disclosed. The improved remote center manipulator linkage assembly advantageously enhances the range of instrument motion while at the same time reduces the overall complexity, size, and physical weight of the robotic surgical system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A remote center manipulator for constraining a position of a surgical instrument coupled to an instrument holder during minimally invasive robotic surgery, the surgical instrument including an elongate shaft, the shaft having a distal working end configured for insertion into a body cavity of a patient through a remote center of manipulation, the remote center manipulator comprising: a mounting base; a parallelogram linkage base coupled to the mounting base for rotation about a first axis, the first axis intersecting the remote center of manipulation; a first link having a first link proximal end and a first link distal end, the first link proximal end coupled to the parallelogram linkage base at a base joint; a second link having a second link proximal end and a second link distal end, the second link proximal end coupled to the first link distal end, the second link distal end coupled to the instrument holder; the parallelogram linkage base having an offset axis angularly offset from the first axis; and a first parallelogram axis intersecting the base joint and the remote center of manipulation, the first parallelogram axis being angularly offset from the first axis. 2. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the first parallelogram axis is angularly offset from the first axis by at least 2 degrees. 3. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the first parallelogram axis is angularly offset from the first axis in a range from about 2 degrees to about 45 degrees. 4. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the first parallelogram axis is angularly offset from the first axis by 10 degrees. 5. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the first parallelogram axis extends beneath the first axis. 6. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the manipulator provides shaft motion in a range greater than .+-.90 degrees relative to the first axis. 7. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the manipulator provides shaft motion in a range between .+-.168 degrees relative to the first axis. 8. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the manipulator provides shaft motion in a range greater than .+-.55 degrees relative to a second axis perpendicular to the first axis. 9. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the manipulator provides shaft motion in a range between .+-.75 degrees relative to a second axis perpendicular to the first axis. 10. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein at least one of the links is bent. 11. The manipulator of claim 10, wherein at least one of the links is bent at an angle of about 22 degrees. 12. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the manipulator is not balanced in at least one degree of freedom. 13. The manipulator of claim 12, further comprising a brake system, the brake system releasably inhibiting articulation of at least one of the joints of the manipulator. 14. The manipulator of claim 1, further comprising at least one pulley and at least one flexible element coupled to the pulley that is configured to constrain shaft motion relative to the center of rotation. 15. The manipulator of claim 1, further comprising six pulleys and four belts. 16. The manipulator of claim 14, wherein the at least one pulley and at least one flexible element are driven by a servomechanism. 17. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the first and second links and the parallelogram linkage base are offset in different planes. 18. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the second link and the instrument holder are located in the same plane. 19. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the first and second links are configured to constrain shaft motion relative to the center of rotation so that the shaft is maintained substantially aligned through the center of rotation as the shaft is pivotally moved in at least one degree of freedom. 20. The manipulator of claim 1, the instrument holder configured to slidably extend the surgical instrument along a longitudinal axis of the instrument holder. 21. The manipulator of claim 1, the second link bent at an angle, the second link and the first link located in the same plane. 22. The manipulator of claim 1, the parallelogram linkage base and the second link kept from rotating relative to each other. 23. The manipulator of claim 1, the first link and the instrument holder kept from rotating relative to each other. 24. The manipulator of claim 1, the first link housing at least one motor for driving the manipulator. 25. A remote center manipulator for pivotal motion of a surgical instrument coupled to an instrument holder during minimally invasive robotic surgery, the surgical instrument including an elongate shaft, the shaft having a proximal end and a distal working end configured for insertion through an incision in a body wall into a body cavity of a patient, the remote center manipulator comprising: a linkage base; a first linkage assembly pivotally supported by the linkage base, the first linkage assembly having a first outer housing; and a second linkage assembly cantilevered between a proximal pivotal joint and a distal pivotal joint and defining a second linkage assembly axis therebetween, the proximal pivotal joint coupling the second linkage assembly to the first linkage assembly, the distal pivotal joint coupling the second linkage assembly to the instrument holder, the first and second linkage assemblies constraining lateral motion of the shaft to pivotal motion about a center of rotation disposed along the shaft, the second linkage having a second outer housing, the second outer housing having a recess disposed between and separated from the first joint and the second joint so that the first outer housing of the first linkage assembly can protrude into the recess and across the second linkage axis when the proximal end of the shaft moves toward the linkage base. 26. The manipulator of claim 25, wherein the second linkage assembly comprises a flexible member in tension between the proximal pivotal joint and the distal pivotal joint, and at least one guide engaging the flexible member laterally so as to displace the flexible member away from the recess. 