As part of a system for processing workpieces, a workpiece support arrangement, separate from a process chamber arrangement supports at least two workpieces at least generally in a stacked relationship to form a workpiece column. A transfer arrangement transports at least two of the workpieces between the workpiece column and the process chamber arrangement by simultaneously moving the two workpieces at least generally along first and second transfer paths, respectively, that are defined between the workpiece column and the first and second process stations. The transfer arrangement can simultaneously move untreated and treated workpieces. Vertical motion swing arms and coaxial swing arms are described. A pair of spaced apart swing arms, the workpiece column and the processing stations can cooperatively define a pentagonal shape. Timing belt backlash elimination, a dual degree of freedom slot valve and low point chamber pumping, for removing chamber contaminants, are also described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a workpiece processing system in which a plurality of workpieces are movable to and from a process chamber arrangement, said process chamber arrangement using at least two side-by-side, first and second process stations each of which is configured for executing a treatment process on one of the workpieces located at each of the first and second process stations such that two workpieces can simultaneously be exposed to the treatment process, a method comprising: arranging a workpiece support arrangement, separate from said process chamber arrangement, for supporting at least two of said workpieces at least generally in a stacked relationship to form a workpiece column; supporting a workpiece transfer arrangement, separate from said process chamber arrangement, for transporting at least two of the workpieces between the workpiece column and the process chamber arrangement by simultaneously moving the two workpieces at least generally along first and second transfer paths, respectively, that are defined between said workpiece column and the first and second process stations such that the first transfer path is terminated by the workpiece column and the first process station and the second transfer path is terminated by the workpiece column and the second process station; configuring said workpiece transfer arrangement for using rotation to move the two workpieces to and from the workpiece column and to and from each of the first and second process stations along said first and second transfer paths such that a rotational component of movement between the workpiece column and the first and second process stations generally characterizes the first and second transfer paths with any horizontal component of movement of each one of the first and second transfer paths being limited to a first circular arcuate path and a second circular arcuate path, respectively; wherein the first and second transfer paths at least partially overlap by intersecting first at the workpiece column and then intersecting at a second, intermediate position between the workpiece column and the process stations when projected onto a plane that is generally parallel to said rotational component of movement; and wherein each workpiece includes opposing major surfaces and wherein the first and second transfer paths provide for one confronting relationship between two of the major surfaces of the two workpieces in a stacked relationship at the workpiece column and further provide for moving the two workpieces through another confronting relationship of the two major surfaces at the second, intermediate position between the workpiece column and the process stations. 2. The method of claim 1 including moving the two workpieces unidirectionally along said first and second transfer paths between the process chamber arrangement and the workpiece column in one direction simultaneously from the workpiece column toward each of the processing stations and in another direction simultaneously from each of the processing stations toward the workpiece column. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said system includes a loadlock and a transfer chamber such that said workpieces are movable between the process chamber arrangement and the loadlock through the transfer chamber and said method includes locating said workpiece column in said loadlock while supporting the workpiece transfer arrangement in the transfer chamber. 4. The method of claim 1 including configuring said workpiece transfer arrangement for simultaneously transferring two pre-treatment ones of the workpieces from the workpiece column to the first and second process stations while returning two post-treatment ones of the workpieces from the first and second process stations to the workpiece column. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein, at any given time during transfer of the pre-treatment and post-treatment workpieces, using the workpiece transfer arrangement to support the pre-treatment and post-treatment workpieces in a vertically spaced-apart positional relationship along the first and second transfer paths. 6. The method of claim 4 including configuring said workpiece transfer arrangement to include first and second sets of swing arms, each of the swing arm sets including an upper swing arm and a lower swing arm that pivot coaxially at a first axis and a second axis, respectively, which first axis and second axis are located at first and second spaced apart fixed positions in relation to the workpiece column and the process stations so as to collectively provide a pair of upper swing arms and a pair of lower swing arms, and the upper swing arm pair is configured to move said workpieces in one direction between the workpiece column and the side-by-side process stations while the lower swing arm pair is configured to move said workpieces in an opposite direction between the workpiece column and the side-by side process stations and further configuring each of the upper and the lower swing arm of the first swing arm set and each of the upper and lower swing arm of the second swing arm set to include an at least generally rigid arm member extending from a pivot end to a distal end with the distal end being configured to support one of said workpieces, and arranging the pivot end of each of the upper swing arm and the lower swing arm of the first swing arm set to rotate about said first axis and arranging the pivot end of each of the upper swing arm and the lower swing arm of the second swing arm set to rotate about said second axis. 7. The method of claim 6 including using each of the first and second swing arm sets for vertical translation to elevationally change the first and second transfer paths between the workpiece column and the first and second process stations. 8. The method of claim 7 including providing a first cam, associated with said first swing arm set, and a second cam, associated with said second swing arm set, to produce a selectable elevation of each of the first and second swing arm sets in relation to rotation between the workpiece column and the process chamber arrangement. 9. The method of claim 8 including arranging a drive shaft to interconnect said first and second cams for co-rotation thereof and further arranging an elevational control motor for driving said drive shaft to selectively rotate the first and second cams which, thereby, vertically translates each swing arm. 10. The method of claim 6 including arranging said workpiece column to include a pair of pre-treatment workpiece positions for receiving two pre-treatment workpieces and a pair of post-treatment workpiece positions for receiving two post-treatment workpieces and dedicating the upper swing arm pair to moving the two pre-treatment workpieces from the pair of pre-treatment positions in the workpiece column to the first and second process stations and dedicating the lower swing arm pair to moving the two post-treatment workpieces from the first and second process stations to the pair of post-treatment workpiece positions in the workpiece column. 11. The method of claim 6 including configuring the upper swing arm and the lower swing arm, making up each set of swing arms, to counter-rotate with respect to one another so as to move in opposite directions simultaneously between the process chamber arrangement and the workpiece column such that one of the upper swing arm and the lower swing arm of each of the first and second sets of swing arms places a workpiece on one of the process stations simultaneous with the other one of the upper swing arm and the lower swing arm of each of the first and second sets of swing arms placing another one of the workpieces in the workpiece column. 12. The method of claim 11 including using a first motor and a second motor to rotationally drive said first and second sets of swing arms. 13. The method of claim 12 including synchronizing rotation of said first and second motors such that the upper pair of swing arms arrives at one of the process chamber arrangement and the workpiece column substantially at the same time that the lower pair of swing arms arrives at the other one of the process chamber arrangement and the workpiece column. 14. The method of claim 4 including configuring said workpiece transfer arrangement to include first and second sets of swing arms, each of the swing arm sets including an upper swing arm and a lower swing arm that pivot coaxially such that the first swing arm set pivots about a first axis and the second swing arm set pivots about a second axis, which first axis and second axis are located at first and second spaced apart fixed positions in relation to the workpiece column and the process stations, so as to collectively provide a pair of upper swing arms and a pair of lower swing arms and further configuring the workpiece transfer arrangement for using one of the upper swing arm pair and the lower swing arm pair for moving the pre-treatment ones of the workpieces simultaneously from the workpiece column to the side-by-side process stations and for using the other one of the upper swing arm pair and the lower swing arm pair for moving the post-treatment ones of the workpieces simultaneously from the side-by-side process stations to the workpiece column and further configuring each of the upper and the lower swing arm of the first swing arm set and each of the upper and the lower swing arm of the second swing arm set to include an at least generally rigid arm member extending from a pivot end to a distal end with the distal end being configured to support one of said workpieces, and arranging the pivot end of each of the upper swing arm and the lower swing arm of the first swing arm set to rotate about said first axis and arranging the pivot end of each of the upper swing arm and the lower swing arm of the second swing arm set to rotate about said second axis. 15. The method of claim 14 including transitioning each one of the upper and lower swing arms of the first and second swing arm sets from a first elevational plane of movement to a second elevational plane of movement in moving between said workpiece column and said process chamber arrangement along said first and second transfer paths such that the first and second planes of movement are vertically spaced apart. 16. The method of claim 14 including using the first and second swing arm sets to simultaneously pick the pre-treatment ones of said workpieces from said workpiece column. 17. The method of claim 16 including causing the first and second swing arm sets to simultaneously pick the post-treatment ones of said workpieces from the first and second process stations, as the pre-treatment ones of the workpieces are simultaneously picked from the workpiece column. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein picking the pretreatment workpieces includes picking a first pre-treatment workpiece and a second pre-treatment workpiece at a selected vertical offset from one another and configuring said first and second swing arm sets for moving the first and second pre-treatment workpieces to the first and second processing stations while maintaining said selected vertical offset such that the first and second workpieces arrive at the first and second process stations at a first height and a second height, differing by said vertical offset. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said process stations define a processing plane in which said workpieces are processed and configuring a workpiece lifting arrangement, as part of said workpiece transfer arrangement, for vertically moving the first and second workpieces between the processing plane and said first and second heights, respectively, at the first and second process stations. 20. The method of claim 14 including rotationally moving the lower swing arm of the first swing arm set between the upper swing arm and lower swing arm of the second swing arm set and rotationally moving the upper swing arm of the second swing arm set between the upper swing arm and lower swing arm of the first swing arm set. 21. The method of claim 1 including separating said first and second transfer paths in first and second directions from said workpiece column and providing a shelf arrangement, as part of said workpiece support arrangement, having a plurality of workpiece positions and configuring the shelf arrangement for each workpiece position based on an association of said first and second directions of travel with individual ones of the workpiece positions. 22. The method of claim 21 including alternately associating said workpiece positions with said first and second transfer paths in said workpiece column. 23. The method of claim 1 wherein said workpieces are semiconductor substrates. 24. The method of claim 1 wherein said process chamber arrangement houses said first and second process stations in a common processing environment. 25. The method of claim 1 wherein said process chamber arrangement includes a first process chamber for housing the first process station and a second process chamber, separate from the first process chamber, for housing the second process station and said method includes configuring the workpiece transfer arrangement for simultaneously accessing the first and second process chambers. 