The present disclosure concerns embodiments of an apparatus and method for producing a filled-dough food product, such as a fruit-filled turnover (e.g., an apple turnover) or a single-serve pie, on an industrial scale. In one representative embodiment, the apparatus includes a filling-apportionment mechanism and a filling-transfer mechanism. The filling-apportionment mechanism is configured to apportion or separate a supply of filling pieces (e.g., pieces of fruit, such as apple pieces) into one or more portions of a predetermined size. The filling-transfer mechanism includes a vacuum pick-up device that is configured to pick up one or more portions of filling pieces from the filling-apportionment mechanism and deposit the portions on a sheet of dough.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for making a food product having a dough casing and a filling, the apparatus comprising: a filling-apportionment mechanism configured to apportion a supply of filling pieces into one or more predetermined portions of filling pieces; and a filling-transfer mechanism comprising a pick-up device that is fluidly connectable to a vacuum source, the pick-up device being configured to pick up one or more portions of filling pieces when a vacuum from the vacuum source is applied to the pick-up device and the pick-up device is positioned proximate the portions of filling pieces to be picked up; wherein the pick-up device comprises an air-permeable pick-up surface that is sized and shaped to pick up and hold said one or more portions of filling pieces when the vacuum is applied to the pick-up device; and wherein: the filling-apportionment mechanism comprises a plurality of filling cups, each of which is sized and shaped to receive a respective portion of filling pieces; and the pick-up surface is permeable to air at locations that correspond to respective filling cups, such that when the pick-up surface is positioned over selected filling cups and the vacuum is applied to the pick-up device, the portions of filling pieces from the selected filling cups are picked up and held against the pick-up surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the pick-up device comprises an annular wall formed around each location on the pick-up surface that is permeable to air, each wall being configured to form a substantially fluid-tight seal around one of the selected filling cups. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each filling cup has an air-permeable bottom surface. 4. An apparatus for making a food product having a dough casing and a filling, the apparatus comprising: a filling-apportionment mechanism configured to apportion a supply of filling pieces into one or more predetermined portions of filling pieces; and a filling-transfer mechanism comprising a pick-up device that is fluidly connectable to a vacuum source, the pick-up device being configured to pick up one or more portions of filling pieces when a vacuum from the vacuum source is applied to the pick-up device and the pick-up device is positioned proximate the portions of filling pieces to be picked up; wherein the filling-apportionment mechanism comprises: an apportionment conveyor comprising a plurality of apportionment cups for receiving a respective portion of filling pieces, the conveyor being movable to move the apportionment cups in a first direction; and a rotatable raking device positioned above the apportionment cups; wherein movement of the apportionment conveyor in the first direction and rotation of the raking device cause a pile of filling pieces placed on the apportionment conveyor to be apportioned into the apportionment cups. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising an in-feed conveyor for conveying filling pieces onto the apportionment conveyor. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the filling pieces comprise apple pieces. 7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the filling-transfer mechanism comprises a vibrator, which when activated, vibrates the pick-up device to facilitate the release of filling pieces from the pick-up device. 8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the filling-transfer mechanism comprises a sliding gate valve that is movable between a first position to fluidly connect the vacuum source to the pick-up device and a second position to fluidly disconnect the vacuum source from the pick-up device. 9. An apparatus for making a food product having a dough casing and a filling, the apparatus comprising: an in-feed mechanism; an apportionment conveyor; and a raking mechanism extending in a direction that is generally perpendicular to the movement of the apportionment conveyor, wherein the in-feed mechanism is configured to deliver filling pieces onto a surface of the apportionment conveyor, the apportionment conveyor comprising a plurality of filling cups sized to receive a portion of filling pieces, the conveyor being movable to move the filling cups, and the raking mechanism is positioned above the cups and configured to rake a pile of filling pieces placed on the conveyor from the surface of the apportionment conveyor into the filling cups as the conveyor moves relative to the raking mechanism. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the raking mechanism comprises a plurality of angularly spaced, elongated rake arms that extend in a direction that is generally perpendicular to movement of the apportionment conveyor, the rake arms being rotatable about a common rotation axis relative to the conveyor for raking the filling pieces into the cups. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the raking mechanism supports the rake arms such that the rake arms remain in a generally perpendicular relationship relative to the conveyor as the rake arms rotate about the rotation axis. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein each rake arm comprises a plurality of longitudinally spaced projections and a plurality of spaces defined between adjacent projections. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the projections of each rake arm are aligned with the spaces of an adjacent rake arm in the direction of movement of the conveyor. 14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the apportionment conveyor is a continuous, endless conveyor supported on spaced apart wheels, and the raking mechanism is supported inside the apportionment conveyor and between the wheels. 15. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: an in-feed conveyor for conveying filling pieces onto the apportionment conveyor so as to form a pile of filling pieces on the apportionment conveyor; and an optical sensor that is operable to detect the pile of filling pieces and control movement of the in-feed conveyor to prevent the pile of filling pieces from exceeding a predetermined height. 16. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a filling-transfer device configured to simultaneously pick up one or more portions of filling pieces from selected filling cups and transfer the picked up portions to a sheet of dough. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the filling-transfer device comprises a plurality of transfer cups that are fluidly connectable to a vacuum source, wherein each transfer cup has an air-permeable surface and can pick up a portion of filling pieces from a respective filling cup when a vacuum from the vacuum source is applied to the transfer cups and the transfer cups are positioned above the portions of filling pieces to be picked up. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the filling-transfer device comprises: a robotic assembly configured to move in three-dimensional space; and a head portion mounted on the robotic assembly and configured to simultaneously pick up one or more portions of filling pieces from selected filling cups and deposit the picked up portions on a sheet of dough; wherein the robotic assembly is operable to move the head portion from a first location at the apportionment conveyor to a second location above the sheet of dough for depositing the portions of filling pieces thereon. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein: the apportionment conveyor is a continuous, endless loop of filling cups supported on spaced apart wheels; and the head portion is sized for insertion inside the loop of filling cups for picking up one or more portions of filling pieces. 20. An apparatus for making a food product having a dough casing and a filling, the apparatus comprising: a dough conveyor for conveying a sheet of dough; a filling-apportionment mechanism configured to apportion a supply of filling pieces into one or more predetermined portions of filling pieces, the filling-apportionment device comprising an endless apportionment conveyor comprising a plurality of interconnected apportionment cups for receiving a respective portion of filling pieces, the conveyor being movable to move the apportionment cups in a first direction, the filling-apportionment mechanism comprising a rotatable raking device positioned above the apportionment cups, wherein movement of the apportionment conveyor in the first direction and rotation of the raking device cause a pile of filling pieces placed on the apportionment conveyor to be apportioned into the apportionment cups; a filling-transfer mechanism comprising a pick-up device that is fluidly connectable to a vacuum source, the pick-up device comprising a plurality of transfer cups that are sized and shaped to mate with selected filling cups such that when the transfer cups are positioned over the selected filling cups and a vacuum from the vacuum source is applied to the transfer cups, the portions of filling pieces from the selected filling cups are picked up and held against inner surfaces of the transfer cups, the filling-transfer mechanism also comprising a robotic arm on which the pick-up device is mounted, the robotic arm being configured to move the pick-up device from a first location at the filling-apportionment mechanism for picking up portions of filling pieces from the selected filling cups and a second location for depositing the picked up portions of filling pieces on the sheet of dough; a vibrator mounted on the pick-up device, the vibrator being operable to vibrate the pick-up device to facilitate the release of filling pieces from the pick-up device when the vacuum is removed therefrom; and a sliding gate valve that controls the application of vacuum to the pick-up device, the gate valve being movable between a first position to fluidly connect the vacuum source to the pick-up device and a second position to fluidly disconnect the vacuum source from the pick-up device, wherein when the gate valve is in the second position, the transfer cups are vented to atmospheric. 