A mobile robot for sensing and decoding a surface coding pattern on a surface includes a housing, A platform is in the housing. An on-board controller is mounted on the platform and configured for wireless communication with a host computer system. A differential drive system is mounted on the platform and connected to the controller so that the controller can steer the platform relative to the surface. An image sensor is mounted on the platform, arranged to sense the surface coding pattern and connected to the controller to communicate data representing the surface coding pattern to the host computer via the controller.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mobile robot for sensing and decoding a printed coding pattern on a surface, the mobile robot comprising a housing; a platform in the housing; an on-board controller mounted on the platform and configured for wireless communication with a host computer system; a differential drive system mounted on the platform and connected to the controller so that the controller can steer the platform relative to the surface; and an image sensor mounted on the platform, arranged to sense and decode the printed coding pattern, said image sensor system being connected to the controller to communicate data representing the decoded coding pattern to the host computer via the controller, wherein said printed coding pattern encodes, at each of at least a given density of points on the surface, the two-dimensional coordinates of the point and identifies the identity of the surface, wherein the on-board controller is configured to be responsive to a command from the host computer to move to a specified coordinate position on the surface, the controller further being configured to report arrival at said specified coordinate position to the host computer. 2. A mobile robot as claimed in claim 1, in which the differential drive system includes a pair of wheels, an H-bridge connected to respective wheels to provide direction and braking control and a pulse-width modulator to provide speed control. 3. A mobile robot as claimed in claim 1, in which the differential drive system includes a pair of wheels, stepper motors connected to respective wheels and a motor controller configured to generate appropriate pulse sequences to control speed and direction of the stepper motors. 4. A mobile robot as claimed in claim 1, in which the on board controller and image sensor are configured so that, when placed on the surface, the controller can determine a position and orientation of the platform relative to the surface and can communicate associated data to the host computer. 5. A mobile robot as claimed in claim 1, in which the image sensor includes infrared illumination LEDs, an area image sensor and optics all suitable for sensing infrared ink. 6. A mobile robot as claimed in claim 1, in which the controller is configured to store a unique ID and to communicate that ID to the host computer. 