Disclosed herein are apparatuses and methods for conducting multiple simultaneous micro-volume chemical and biochemical reactions in an array format. In one embodiment, the format comprises an array of microholes in a substrate. Besides serving as an ordered array of sample chambers allowing the performance of multiple parallel reactions, the arrays can be used for reagent storage and transfer, library display, reagent synthesis, assembly of multiple identical reactions, dilution and desalting. Use of the arrays facilitates optical analysis of reactions, and allows optical analysis to be conducted in real time. Included within the invention are kits comprising a microhole apparatus and a reaction component of the method(s) to be carried out in the apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for containing multiple micro-volume liquid samples comprising a substrate, wherein the substrate defines a plurality of sample chambers, wherein each sample chamber: (a) extends through the substrate; (b) comprises one or more walls and an opening at each end; and (c) comprises a hydrophobic annular ring on the wall of the chamber, separating two hydrophilic regions; and (d) holds a sample in the form of a thin film such that a liquid sample present in the sample chamber does not intermix with a liquid sample present in another sample chamber. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the sample chamber has a height to width ratio less than or equal to 2:1 when the height of the sample chamber is measured from one face of the substrate to the other. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the substrate comprises hydrophobic regions located on the substrate such that a liquid sample present in one sample chamber does not intermix with a liquid sample present in another sample chamber. 4. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the substrate comprises an upper face and a lower face. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the through axes of the sample chambers are perpendicular to both faces of the substrate. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the sample chamber has the shape of a right circular cylinder. 7. An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the sample chamber has the shape of a right polygonal prism. 8. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the hydrophobic regions are located on the upper and lower faces of the substrate such that the openings of at least one sample chamber is separated from at least one adjacent sample chamber by a hydrophobic region. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein additional hydrophobic regions are located on the walls of the sample chambers. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each sample chamber further comprises a second hydrophobic annular ring along the wall of the sample chamber. 11. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the hydrophobic annular ring and the second hydrophobic annular ring define one or more annular non-hydrophobic rings therebetween. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising at least one component of a reaction to be carried out in the apparatus. 13. An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the component is a reagent used in a nucleotide sequencing reaction, a hybridization reaction, or a polynucleotide amplification reaction. 14. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a reaction component is affixed to the substrate. 15. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus is substantially free from contaminating amplifiable polynucleotides. 16. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises top and bottom surfaces that each contain raised features which form closed curves circumscribing the openings to said sample chambers. 