A break-away mounting system for a continuous-motion, high-speed position conveyor system is disclosed. A support cradle may be suspended from a conveyor belt such that the support cradle maintains a fixed position and orientation relative to at least one point on the conveyor belt without inducing appreciable stress on the conveyor belt, the support cradle, or the coupling between the conveyor belt and the support cradle. The mount may include a leading rotatable bearing attached to the support cradle which may releasably engage a first key attached to the conveyor belt, the rotatable bearing adapted to accommodate rotational forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. The mount may also include a slide bearing attached to the support cradle which may releasably engage a second key attached to the conveyor belt, the slide bearing adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt adapted to support and transport a plurality of substrate carriers; and a plurality of keys attached to the conveyor belt along a length of the conveyor belt, wherein one or more keys engage a rotatable bearing or a longitudinal bearing of a cradle that is adapted to support a substrate carrier wherein each key includes at least one relief surface adjacent an attachment surface, wherein the conveyor belt has a minimum bend radius, and wherein the relief surface angles away from the conveyor at an angle sufficient to avoid contact with the conveyor at bend radii greater than the minimum bend radius. 2. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt adapted to support and transport a plurality of substrate carriers; and a plurality of keys attached to the conveyor belt along a length of the conveyor belt, wherein one or more keys engage a rotatable bearing or a longitudinal bearing of a cradle that is adapted to support a substrate carrier wherein each key includes a position bearing surface having a curved surface adapted to engage a collar of the rotatable bearing. 3. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt adapted to support and transport a plurality of substrate carriers; and a plurality of keys attached to the conveyor belt along a length of the conveyor belt, wherein one or more keys engage a rotatable bearing or a longitudinal bearing of a cradle that is adapted to support a substrate carrier wherein each key includes a position bearing surface having a curved surface adapted to engage at least one spring arm of the rotatable bearing. 4. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt adapted to support and transport a plurality of substrate carriers; and a plurality of keys attached to the conveyor belt along a length of the conveyor belt, wherein one or more keys engage a rotatable bearing or a longitudinal bearing of a cradle that is adapted to support a substrate carrier wherein each key includes a position bearing surface having at least one surface adapted to engage a channel of the longitudinal bearing. 5. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt adapted to support and transport a plurality of substrate carriers; and a plurality of keys attached to the conveyor belt along a length of the conveyor belt, wherein one or more keys engage a rotatable bearing or a longitudinal bearing of a cradle that is adapted to support a substrate carrier wherein each key includes a position bearing surface adapted to slide along a flat surface of the longitudinal bearing. 6. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt adapted to support and transport a plurality of substrate carriers; and a plurality of keys attached to the conveyor belt along a length of the conveyor belt, wherein one or more keys engage a rotatable bearing or a longitudinal bearing of a cradle that is adapted to support a substrate carrier wherein each key includes at least one relief surface adjacent an attachment surface, wherein the conveyor belt has a minimum bend radius, and wherein the relief surface angles away from the conveyor at an angle sufficient to avoid contact with the conveyor at bend radii greater than the minimum bend radius. 7. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt adapted to support and transport a plurality of substrate carriers; and a plurality of keys attached to the conveyor belt along a length of the conveyor belt, wherein one or more keys engage a rotatable bearing or a longitudinal bearing of a cradle that is adapted to support a substrate carrier wherein each key includes a position bearing surface having a curved surface adapted to engage a collar of the rotatable bearing. 8. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt adapted to support and transport a plurality of substrate carriers; and a plurality of keys attached to the conveyor belt along a length of the conveyor belt, wherein one or more keys engage a rotatable bearing or a longitudinal bearing of a cradle that is adapted to support a substrate carrier wherein each key includes a position bearing surface having a curved surface adapted to engage at least one spring arm of the rotatable bearing. 9. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt adapted to support and transport a plurality of substrate carriers; and a plurality of keys attached to the conveyor belt along a length of the conveyor belt, wherein one or more keys engage a rotatable bearing or a longitudinal bearing of a cradle that is adapted to support a substrate carrier wherein each key includes a position bearing surface having at least one surface adapted to engage a channel of the longitudinal bearing. 10. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt adapted to support and transport a plurality of substrate carriers; and a plurality of keys attached to the conveyor belt along a length of the conveyor belt, wherein one or more keys engage a rotatable bearing or a longitudinal bearing of a cradle that is adapted to support a substrate carrier wherein each key includes a position bearing surface adapted to slide along a flat surface of the longitudinal bearing. 