A vision system and method for calibrating motion of a robot disposed in a processing system is provided. In one embodiment, a vision system for a processing system includes a camera and a calibration wafer that are positioned in a processing system. The camera is positioned on the robot and is adapted to obtain image data of the calibration wafer disposed in a predefined location within the processing system. The image data is utilized to calibrate the robots motion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calibrating motion of a robot disposed in a semiconductor processing system, the method comprising: positioning a calibration wafer in a placed position in a semiconductor processing system using a robot motion routine selected to place the calibration wafer in a target position; positioning a camera on a robot; viewing the calibration wafer disposed in the placed position with the camera disposed on the robot; and determining a relative distance between the placed position of the calibration wafer and the target position using an image of the calibration wafer. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining further comprises: comparing the image of the calibration wafer to an indicium displayed on a monitor. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining further comprises: comparing the image of the calibration wafer to a reference image stored in the controller. 4. A method for calibrating motion of a robot disposed in a semiconductor processing system, the method comprising: moving a camera disposed on a robot to a predefined position within a semiconductor processing system; capturing one or more images of a substrate support with the camera; determining a reference motion to be utilized by the robot to transfer a substrate to the substrate support from the captured images; transferring a wafer to the substrate support using the reference motion; viewing the wafer disposed on the substrate support with the camera; capturing one or more images of a wafer with the camera; and determining a corrected reference motion to be utilized by the robot to place the wafer on the substrate support in a predetermined position. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of capturing one or more images of the wafer with the camera further comprises: capturing one or more images of the substrate support viewed through the wafer. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the step of capturing one or more images of the wafer with the camera further comprises: capturing one or more images of an indicator of wafer position. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of capturing one or more images of the indicator of wafer position further comprises: identifying at least one of a geometric or visual feature of the calibration wafer. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of moving the camera disposed on the robot further comprises: exposing the camera to a vacuum environment. 9. The method of claim 4 further comprising: transmitting images captured by the camera; and remotely receiving the captured images. 10. A method for calibrating motion of a robot disposed in a semiconductor processing system, the method comprising: positioning a camera on a locating plate disposed on a robot disposed in a semiconductor processing system; capturing one or more images of a wafer placed on a substrate support by the robot with the camera disposed on the locating plate; comparing the images viewed by the camera with a reference image stored in a controller, and determining a correction of a robotic motion routine utilized to place the wafer on the substrate support using the compared images. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the correction further comprising: adjusting the robotic motion routing so that the view of the image and the reference image have a predefined relationship. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of comparing further comprises: repeatedly comparing the images viewed by the camera to the reference image of the predefined position until the robot reaches a predefined position. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of comparing further comprises: comparing the relative size of the images viewed by the camera. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of capturing further comprises: comparing the relative size of the images to an indicia viewed by the camera. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the indicia is disposed on the wafer. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of capturing the image further comprises: positioning a reflector in the camera's field of view. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising changing an orientation of the reflector to allow the camera to view different objects disposed in the semiconductor processing system. 