The invention provides a printhead assembly for a printer which prints onto a moving web that follows a path. A full width printhead located across the path of the printer. The printhead is a color printhead which is at least as wide as the web. The printhead is supplied with a number of different inks which are remote from the printhead and which are supplied to the printhead through tubes. In some embodiments the printhead is retained by a rail which is located across the path and along which the printhead slides into and out of a printing position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly for a printer which prints onto a moving web that follows a path, the printhead assembly comprising: a full width printhead located across the path, the printhead comprising a plurality of inkjet nozzles having nozzle chambers and thermal bend actuators external to the nozzle chambers, each thermal bend actuator having an arm comprising a plurality of separate spaced apart elongate thermal actuator units, the thermal actuator units being configured to thermally expand upon heating thereby bending the associated arm so as to cause ink ejection from the nozzles; the printhead comprising a color printhead which is at least as wide as the web; the color printhead being supplied with a number of different colored inks. 2. The printhead assembly of claim 1, further comprising: a rail which is located across the path and along which the printhead slides into and out of a printing position. 3. The printhead assembly of claim 2, wherein: the printhead is secured to the rail by fasteners which allow the printhead to be removed when the fasteners are disengaged. 4. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein: the inks are contained in individual reservoirs and a supply tube connects each reservoir to the printhead. 5. The printhead assembly of claim 4, further comprising: a coupling in each ink supply tube which allows disconnection and withdrawal of the printhead. 6. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the web is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.02 square meters per second (775 square feet per hour). 7. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the web is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.1 square meters per second (3875 square feet per hour). 8. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the web is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.2 square meters per second (7750 square feet per hour). 9. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead has more than 7680 nozzles. 10. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead has more than 20,000 nozzles. 11. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead has more than 100,000 nozzles. 12. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead has more than 250,000 nozzles. 13. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 5 picoliters. 14. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 3 picoliters. 15. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 1.5 picoliters. 16. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is adapted to produce rolls of wallpaper, the printer comprising: a housing in which is located a media path which extends from a blank media intake to a wallpaper exit slot; a multi-color roll width removable printhead located in the housing and across the media path; the printhead being supplied by separate ink reservoirs, the reservoirs connected to the printhead by a an ink supply harness, there being a disconnect coupling between the reservoirs and the printhead; one or more input devices for capturing operator instructions; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll. 