A dish assembly is disclosed which has a central hub, an outer rim member, and a plurality of concentric arcuate structural members comprising at least an inner and an outer arcuate structural members extending from the central hub to the outer rim member, each of the arcuate structural members having an upper channel member, a lower channel member, an inner arcuate surface and an outer arcuate surface which cooperate to constitute a box section configuration and wherein said each upper and lower channel member comprises a channel base and a pair of channel flanges, and the inner and outer arcuate surfaces of each of the arcuate structural members are abutted such that a gravitational or wind load is transferred from the outer arcuate structural member to the adjoining inner arcuate structural member via a fin disposed on the inner arcuate surface of each of the arcuate structural members.
Claims The claims defining the invention are as follows: 1. A dish assembly including: a central hub; an outer rim member, and a plurality of concentric arcuate structural members comprising at least an inner and an outer arcuate structural members extending from the central hub to the outer rim member; each of the arcuate structural members having an upper channel member, a lower channel member, an inner arcuate surface and an outer arcuate surface which cooperate to constitute a box section configuration, and wherein said each upper and lower channel member comprises a channel base and a pair of channel flanges; and the inner and outer arcuate surfaces of each of the arcuate structural members are abutted such that a gravitational or wind load is transferred from the outer arcuate structural member to the adjoining inner arcuate structural member via a fin disposed on the inner arcuate surface of each of the arcuate structural members. 2. The dish assembly as claimed in claim 1, and including a plurality of radial support arms extending from the central hub to the outer rim member and adapted to support the ends of the arcuate structural members. 3. The dish assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the upper and lower channel members are formed from substantially rectangular metal sheeting. 4. The dish assembly as claimed in claim 3, wherein the gauge of the metal sheeting of each inner arcuate structural member is greater the gauge of each outer arcuate structural member. 5. The dish assembly as claimed in claim 4, wherein the upper and lower channel members have a transverse rib formed within the upper and lower channel members across the channel base between the channel flanges, the rib being formed from the base. 6. The dish assembly as claimed in claim 5, wherein the rib is formed by folding inwardly a portion of the base, the inwardly folded portion of the base being deeper at one flange than the other such that the rib is correspondingly deeper at one flange than at the other flange, whereby the rib constitutes a cantilever and whereby the edges of the substantially rectangular sheeting becomes angled about the rib to thereby form an arc in the arcuate member. 7. The dish assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the said channel flanges of the upper and lower channel members have outwardly and inwardly directed returns at the respective bases thereof, such that when the upper and lower channel members cooperate to constitute the arcuate structural member of box section configuration, the returns constitute cooperating keys and recesses respectively of adjoining concentric arcuate structural members whereby said wind load is transferred from the outer arcuate structural member to the adjoining inner arcuate structural member. 8. The dish assembly as claimed in claim 1, and including a plurality of mirrors affixed to the bases of the upper channel members whereby the dish assembly constitutes a solar collector. 9. The dish assembly as claimed in claim 8, wherein the glass mirrors are substantially square with sides substantially the width of the arcuate structural members. 10. The dish assembly as claimed in claim 1, and including a dish support member supportable on a foundation and receivable within an opening in the hub member and adapted to cooperate therewith to elevate the dish assembly with respect to the foundation. 