A shopping receptacle for receiving a product item. The product item comprises an interface surface a position-coding pattern containing coded data is printed on the interface surface. The coded data identifies a plurality of position coordinates on the interface surface and an identity of the product item. The receptacle comprises: a receptacle body and an opening through which the product item is placed within the receptacle body. A sensing device is positioned for scanning product items as they are placed through the opening. The sensing device emits a scanning beam across the opening of the receptacle body and generates, using sensed coded data, indicating data indicative of a position coordinate on the interface surface and the identity of the product item.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A shopping receptacle for receiving a product item, the product item comprising an interface surface having a printed position-coding pattern containing coded data, said coded data identifying a plurality of position coordinates on the interface surface and an identity of the product item, wherein the receptacle comprises: (a) a receptacle body adapted to receive and retain the product item and having an opening through which the product item may be placed within the receptacle body; and, (b) a sensing device configured to: (i) emit at least one scanning beam across the opening of the receptacle body; (ii) sense coded data from at least part of the position-coding pattern as the product item is positioned in the receptacle opening; and (iii) generate, using the sensed coded data, indicating data indicative of at least one position coordinate on the interface surface and of the identity of the product item. 2. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the sensing device is configured to transfer the indicating data to a computer system. 3. The receptacle of claim 2, wherein said computer system is configured to: receive the indicating data; interpret the indicating data with reference to a description of the interface surface, said description being associated with and retrievable via said identity of the product item; and initiate, using the interpreted indicating data, an action. 4. The receptacle of claim 3, wherein the action includes at least one of: providing product information about the product item to the user; recording a purchase transaction indicating that the user has purchased the product item; recording a potential purchase transaction indicating that the user wishes to purchase the product item; providing comparison information to the user, the comparison information comparing product information about the product item with product information about another product item; playing a game associated with the product item; and conducting a competition in relation to the product item. 5. The receptacle of claim 3, further comprising a display for displaying product information to a user, said product information being received from said computer system. 6. The receptacle of claim 3, further comprising means for selecting an interaction mode, wherein said action is dependent on said interaction mode. 7. The receptacle of claim 2, wherein the receptacle includes a communication system for transferring data to the computer system. 8. The receptacle of claim 2, wherein the receptacle includes at least part of the computer system. 9. The receptacle of claim 2, wherein the computer is configured to: associate the sensing device with the user; and, dissociate the sensing device and the user. 10. The receptacle of claim 9, wherein the computer system is configured to add an indication of the product item to a product item list. 11. The receptacle of claim 9, wherein the computer system configured to, in response to dissociation, provide the product item list to the user. 12. The receptacle of claim 2, wherein said sensing device has a sensing device identity, and wherein said sensing device is configured to transfer sensing device identity data to the computer system together with said indicating data. 13. The receptacle of claim 2, wherein the computer system is configured to: receive user identity data indicative of an identity of the user; use the sensing device identity data and the user identity data to associate the sensing device with the user. 14. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the receptacle is selected from the group consisting of: a shopping trolley; a shopping cart; and, a shopping basket. 15. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the coded data identifies an EPC associated with the product item. 16. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the coded data distinguishes the product item from every other product item. 17. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the coded data is substantially invisible to the unaided eye. 18. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the coded data is printed on the interface surface coincident with visible markings representing at least one of: product information; and, the identity of the product item. 19. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the interface surface comprises at least a portion of at least one of: product item packaging; product item labelling; product manuals; product instructions; and, a surface of the product item. 20. The receptacle of claim 1, wherein the coded data is disposed over more than 75% of any one of: an entire product surface; product packaging; and, a product label. 