A thermoplastic vulcanizate comprising of a dynamically-cured rubber; and a thermoplastic phase, where the thermoplastic phase includes fiber and the reaction product of a methylene donor and a methylene acceptor. The thermoplastic phase could include a functionalized thermoplastic resin.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a fiber-reinforced thermoplastic vulcanizate, the method comprising: dynamically curing a rubber while the rubber is undergoing mixing with a thermoplastic resin to form a thermoplastic vulcanizate feedstock; and introducing fiber, a methylene donor, a methylene acceptor, and optionally a functionalized thermoplastic resin, with the thermoplastic vulcanizate feedstock to form the fiber-reinforced thermoplastic vulcanizate; wherein nylon is not added in either the dynamically curing step or the introducing step. 2. The method of claim 1, where a functionalized thermoplastic is introduced with the thermoplastic vulcanizate stock or with the reinforced thermoplastic vulcanizate. 3. The method of claim 2, where said step of introducing includes mixing the fiber, the methylene donor, the methylene acceptor, and the functionalized thermoplastic, with the thermoplastic vulcanizate feedstock at a temperature above the melt temperature of the thermoplastic vulcanizate feedstock. 4. The method of claim 3, where the mixing occurs at a temperature of from about 170.degree. C. to about 220.degree. C. 5. The method of claim 2, where said step of introducing includes introducing at least 1% and up to 50% by weight fiber based upon the total weight of the fiber-reinforced thermoplastic vulcanizate. 6. The method of claim 2, where said step of introducing includes introducing at least 4 and up to 20% by weight functionalized thermoplastic resin based upon the total weight of the fiber-reinforced thermoplastic vulcanizate. 7. The method of claim 2, where said step of introducing includes introducing at least 0.3 and up to 4% by weight methylene donor based upon the total weight of the fiber-reinforced thermoplastic vulcanizate. 8. The method of claim 2, where said step of introducing includes introducing at least 0.5 and up to 6% by weight methylene acceptor based upon the total weight of the fiber-reinforced thermoplastic vulcanizate. 9. The method of claim 2, farther comprising the step of aligning the fibers within the thermoplastic vulcanizate. 10. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of introducing an unfunctionalized thermoplastic to the thermoplastic vulcanizate feedstock. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the rubber is ethylene-propylene rubber. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the thermoplastic resin is a propylene-based polymer. 