High throughput screening of crystallization of a target material is accomplished by simultaneously introducing a solution of the target material into a plurality of chambers of a microfabricated fluidic device. The microfabricated fluidic device is then manipulated to vary the solution condition in the chambers, thereby simultaneously providing a large number of crystallization environments. Control over changed solution conditions may result from a variety of techniques, including but not limited to metering volumes of crystallizing agent into the chamber by volume exclusion, by entrapment of volumes of crystallizing agent determined by the dimensions of the microfabricated structure, or by cross-channel injection of sample and crystallizing agent into an array of junctions defined by intersecting orthogonal flow channels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for mixing a first reactant and a second reactant comprising: providing a microfabricated elastomeric block having a chamber therein; introducing into the chamber a volume of the first reactant; and introducing a volume of the second reactant into the chamber by entrapping a volume of the second reactant proximate to the chamber and then opening an elastomeric valve positioned between the chamber and the second reactant to allow entry of the second reactant into the chamber. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the chamber is defined by a junction between a first flow channel that intersects a second flow channel, and wherein the first reactant is flowed through the first flow channel and the second reactant is flowed through the second flow channel. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein an array of chambers is defined by a junction between a first set of flow channels that intersect a second set of flow channels, and wherein first reactants are flowed through the first flow channels and second reactants are flowed through the second flow channels to create an array of first-reactant-second-reactant conditions. 4. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the first reactant enters the chamber by diffusing into the chamber. 5. A method for mixing a first reactant and a second reactant comprising: providing a microfabricated elastomeric structure having a chamber therein; introducing the first reactant into the chamber; introducing a volume of the second reactant into the first reactant in the chamber, wherein the second reactant is introduced into the chamber by entrapping a volume of the second reactant proximate to the chamber, and then opening an elastomeric valve positioned between the chamber and the second reactant to allow entry of the second reactant into the chamber; and, obtaining an image of the elastomeric structure. 6. The method recited in claim 5 wherein the second reactant enters the chamber by diffusing into the chamber. 7. A method for mixing a first reactant and a second reactant comprising: providing a microfabricated elastomeric structure having a chamber therein; introducing the first reactant into the chamber and introducing a volume of the second reactant into the first reactant in the chamber, wherein the second reactant is introduced into the chamber by entrapping a volume of the second reactant proximate to the chamber, and then opening an elastomeric valve positioned between the chamber and the second reactant to allow entry of the second reactant into the chamber; and, inspecting the chamber after introducing the volume of the second reactant into the first reactant. 8. The method recited in claim 7 wherein the second reactant enters the chamber by diffusing into the chamber. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein the inspecting is performed using a microscope. 10. A system for mixing a first reactant and a second reactant, the system comprising: a microfabricated elastomeric structure having a chamber therein; a volume of a first reactant contained within the chamber; and a volume of a second reactant entrapped proximate to the chamber and separated from the chamber by an elastomeric valve, wherein, in use, opening of the valve allows mixing of the first reactant and the second reactant. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the microfabricated elastomeric structure comprises a plurality of chambers. 12. The system of claim 10 wherein the microfabricated elastomeric structure comprises a first elastomeric layer having a first flow channel disposed therein, and a second elastomeric layer, having a second flow channel disposed therein, which flow channels are disposed one above the other and at an angle to one another with a membrane separating the top of one flow channel from the bottom of the other, wherein a valve is formed at the intersection of the first and second flow channels, and wherein at least one flow channel is in fluid communication with the chamber. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein the width-to-depth ratio of at least one channel is in a range from 3:1 to 15:1 and wherein the width of at least one flow channel is less than 1000 microns. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the width of at least one flow channel is between 0.2 and 500 microns. 