A health care monitoring system for a person includes one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless mesh network; a wearable appliance having a sound transducer coupled to the wireless transceiver; and a heart attack or stroke attack sensor coupled to the wireless mesh network to communicate patient data over the wireless mesh network to detect a heart attack or a stroke attack.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A heart monitoring system for a patient, comprising: one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless mesh network; and a wearable appliance having a wireless transceiver adapted to communicate with the one or more wireless nodes; and an analyzer to determine heart attack or stroke attack, the analyzer coupled to the wireless transceiver to communicate patient data over the wireless mesh network, wherein the analyzer detects weakness in left half and right half of patient body; detects walking pattern for loss of balance or coordination; asks user to move hands/feet in a predetermined pattern and read accelerometer output in accordance with predetermined pattern; checks whether the person experienced dizziness or headache; displays a text image and asks the person to read back the text image one eye at a time; or uses a speech recognizer to detect confusion, trouble speaking or understanding and asks the person if numbness is felt in the body. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the analyzer comprises one of: a differential amplifier, an accelerometer. 3. The system of claim 1, comprising a sound transducer coupled to the wireless transceiver to communicate audio over a plain old telephone service (POTS) network and a public switched telephone network (PSTN) network through the mesh network. 4. The system of claim 1, comprising one of: an EMG detector, EEG detector, an EKG detector, an ECG detector, an electromagnetic detector, an ultrasonic detector, an optical detector, a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) recognizer, a dynamic time warp (DTW) recognizer, a neural network, a fuzzy logic engine, a Bayesian network. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance monitors patient movement. 6. The system of claim 1, comprising an in-door positioning system coupled to one or more mesh network appliances to provide location information. 7. The system of claim 1, comprising a call center coupled to the appliance to provide a human response. 8. The system of claim 1, comprising a web server coupled to the mesh network and to the plain old telephone service (POTS) to provide information to an authorized remote user. 9. The system of claim 1, comprising a wireless router coupled to the mesh network and wherein the wireless router comprises one of: 802.11 router, 802.16 router, WiFi router, WiMAX router, Bluetooth router, X10 router. 10. The system of claim 1, comprising a mesh network appliance coupled to a power line to communicate X10 data to and from the mesh network. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the mesh network. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance captures bioelectric impedance (BI) data is used to determine one of: total body water, compartmentalization of body fluids, cardiac monitoring, blood flow, skinfold thickness, dehydration, blood loss, wound monitoring, ulcer detection, deep vein thrombosis, hypoyolemia, hemorrhage, blood loss, heart attack, stroke attack. 13. The system of claim 1, comprising a patch having second BI sensor in communication with the wireless transceiver. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the mesh network to one of: a doctor, a nurse, a medical assistant, a caregiver, an emergency response unit, a family member. 15. The system of claim 1, comprising code to store and analyze patient information. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the patient information includes medicine taking habits, eating and drinking habits, sleeping habits, or excise habits. 17. The system of claim 1, comprising a housing having one or more bioelectric contacts coupleable to the patient, the housing selected from one of: a patch, a wristwatch, a band, a wristband, a chest band, a leg band, a sock, a glove, a foot pad, a head-band, an ear-clip, an ear phone, a shower-cap, an armband, an ear-ring, eye-glasses, sun-glasses, a belt, a sock, a shirt, a garment, a jewelry, a bed spread, a pillow cover, a pillow, a mattress, a blanket, each having one or more sensors in communication with the wireless mesh network. 18. The system of claim 1, comprising: one or more cameras positioned to capture three dimensional (3D) video of the patient; a server coupled to the one or more cameras, the server executing code to detect a dangerous condition for the patient based on the 3D video and allow a remote third party to view images of the patient when the dangerous condition is detected; and an analyzer that detects weakness in left half and right half of patient body; detects walking pattern for loss of balance or coordination; asks user to move hands/feet in a predetermined pattern and read accelerometer output in accordance with predetermined pattern; checks whether the person experienced dizziness or headache; displays a text image and asks the person to read back the text image one eye at a time; or uses a speech recognizer to detect confusion, trouble speaking or understanding and asks the person if numbness is felt in the body. 19. A monitoring system for a person, comprising: one or more wireless nodes; a electromyography (EMG) sensor coupled to the person to determine a stroke attack, the EMG sensor coupled to the wireless nodes to transmit patient data; and an analyzer that detects weakness in left half and right half of patient body; detects walking pattern for loss of balance or coordination; asks user to move hands/feet in a predetermined pattern and read accelerometer output in accordance with predetermined pattern; checks whether the person experienced dizziness or headache; displays a text image and asks the person to read back the text image one eye at a time; or uses a speech recognizer to detect confusion, trouble speaking or understanding and asks the person if numbness is felt in the body. 