The disclosed method & apparatus are for forming a fluid connection or tap through the wall of a pipeline, particularly intended for "hot tapping" of subsea pipelines. The method comprises fitting a connecting piece having a mounting surface which extends around the tap location and at least partially over the tap location and a connecting wall (2h) which surrounds the tap location to provide an opening adapted for subsequent connection of a conduit to complete a fluid connection. The connecting piece is bonded to the pipeline by friction stitch welding performed inside said opening. The material at the tap location is removed (AC indicates after cutting) to define an aperture and provide said fluid connection surrounded closely by the weld between the connecting piece and the wall.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of forming a tap through a metallic first wall at a desired tap location, the method comprising: fitting against the metallic first wall a metallic connecting piece which comprises (i) a metallic mounting surface formed so as to fit directly against the metallic first wall and (ii) a metallic connecting wall surrounding the tap location providing an opening adapted for subsequent connection of a metallic conduit to complete said fluid connection, the material of said metallic mounting surface further extending at least partially within said opening; bonding the material of the metallic connecting piece to that of the metallic first wall by means of a welding operation performed through said opening, the resulting weld surrounding the tap location and being surrounded in turn by the metallic connecting wall; and subsequently removing the material of the metallic first wall at the tap location thereby to define an aperture and provide said conduit to complete said fluid connection surrounded by the weld between the metallic connecting piece and the wall. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the method is performed as part of a hot-tapping operation in a working installation. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the method is performed off-line as part of construction. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the tap is formed under water. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the metallic first wall at the tap location is a curved surface. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the metallic first wall is a pipe wall, and the metallic connecting piece comprises a saddle-shaped mounting surface. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein the metallic connecting wall provides a flange mounting at its end remote from the metallic mounting surface, for connecting said metallic conduit over the opening of the metallic connecting piece. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein the opening in the metallic connecting piece is formed larger than the aperture formed at the tap location, in accordance with the dimensions of a welding head used in the welding operation. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein the welding operation is performed using a welding head carried on a frame adapted for connection to the metallic connecting piece, the welding head being driven within said frame to complete said welding operation at locations within the opening and surrounding the tap location. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the welding head is stepped to successive locations, at each location fusing a plug of metallic material to the metallic material of the metallic connecting piece and the metallic first wall, the locations ultimately overlapping so as to form a continuous weld of said fused material. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein the welding operation is a friction welding operation. 12. A method according to claim 1, wherein the metallic mounting surface of the metallic connecting piece extends at least partially over the tap location, the method including the step of removing material of the metallic connecting piece. 13. A method according to claim 12, wherein the step of removing material comprises cutting simultaneously through the metallic material of the connecting piece and the wall. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein the material is removed by cutting through the welded portions of the metallic first wall and the metallic connecting piece. 15. A method according to claim 1, wherein said welding operation comprises: boring a hole through the metallic mounting surface of the metallic connecting piece within the opening and into the metallic first wall, locating a metallic plug in the hole bored, applying a load with a welding head and rotating the welding head and plug so that frictional heat and pressure generated between the plug and sides of the bored hole cause the metallic plug material to flow and form a weld, repeating the steps of boring a hole and forming a weld until a continuous welded joint is formed, and cutting through the metallic first wall to form a flow passage surrounded by said welded joint. 16. A method of forming a tap through a metallic first wall at a desired tap location, the method comprising: fitting against the metallic first wall a metallic connecting piece which comprises (i) a metallic mounting surface formed so as to fit directly against the metallic first wall, and (ii) a metallic connecting wall surrounding the tap location and providing an opening adapted for subsequent connection of a metallic conduit to complete said fluid connection, the material of said metallic mounting surface extending at least partially within said opening; bonding the material of the metallic connecting piece to that of the metallic first wall by means of a welding operation performed through said opening; said welding operation comprising boring a hole through the metallic mounting surface of the metallic connecting piece within the opening and into the metallic first wall, locating a metallic plug in the hole thus bored, applying a load with a welding head and rotating the welding head and plug so that frictional heat and pressure generated between the plug and the bored hole cause the metallic plug material to flow and form a weld, and repeating the steps of boring a hole and forming a weld until a continuous welded joint is formed; and cutting through at least the metallic first wall at the tap location to define an aperture to provide said fluid connection, the aperture being surrounded by said welded joint. 17. The method of claim 16, in which said metallic mounting surface extends across and forms a closed end to said metallic connecting wall, and in which said cutting step is performed through the welded joint to remove portions of both said metallic first wall and said metallic mounting surface to form said aperture. 