A method of error compensation for measurements taken using a co-ordinate positioning apparatus comprising an articulating probe head having a surface detecting device. The surface detecting device is rotated about at least one axis of the articulating probe head during measurement. The method comprises the steps of: determining the stiffness of the whole or part of the apparatus; determining one or more factors which relate to the load applied by the articulating probe head at any particular instant, and determining the measurement error at the surface sensing device caused by the load.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of error compensation for measurements taken using a coordinate positioning apparatus comprising an articulating probe head having a surface detecting device, the method comprising: rotating the surface detecting device about at least one axis of the articulating probe head during measurements; determining a stiffness of a whole or a part of the coordinate positioning apparatus; determining a load or one or more factors which relate to the load applied by a motion of the articulating probe head about the at least one axis at any particular instant; and determining a measurement error at the surface detecting device caused by the load, using data determined in the determining steps. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the load comprises a torque. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the load comprises a linear force. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the surface detecting device is a contact probe. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein the surface detecting device is a non-contact probe. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein the stiffness is determined by applying a load to the whole or part of the coordinate positioning apparatus and measuring a deflection. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein the stiffness is determined by: measuring an object of known dimensions to obtain measured dimensions whilst measuring the load applied to the whole or part of the coordinate positioning apparatus; wherein a deflection of the whole or part of the apparatus is determined based on a difference between the known and measured dimensions of the object; and the stiffness is derived from the load and the deflection. 8. A method according to claim 7 wherein the known dimensions of the object are determined by measuring the object at a slow speed. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein the surface detecting device is a contact probe having a workpiece contacting stylus, and wherein the stiffness is determined by: positioning the contact probe so that the workpiece contacting stylus is in contact with a surface of an object of known dimensions; and taking measurement readings of the surface when different probe forces are applied; wherein a deflection of the whole or part of the coordinate positioning apparatus is determined based on a difference between the known dimensions and the measurement readings; and the stiffness is derived from the probe forces and the deflection. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein the surface detecting device is a contact probe having a workpiece contacting stylus, and wherein the stiffness is determined by: positioning the contact probe so that the workpiece contacting stylus is in contact with a surface of an object of known dimensions; oscillating the articulating probe head as a probe tip of the articulating probe head remains in contact with the surface; and taking measurement readings of the surface when oscillating at different probe frequencies and hence accelerations; wherein a deflection of the whole or part of the coordinate positioning apparatus is determined based on a difference between the known dimensions and the measurement readings; and the stiffness is derived from the accelerations and the deflection. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein the one or more factors which relate to the load is determined based on system variables of the coordinate positioning apparatus. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein the one or more factors which relate to the load is determined based on current applied to at least one motor in the articulating probe head. 13. A method according to claim 11 wherein the one or more factors which relate to the load is determined by double differentiation of measurement data from a position measuring device in the articulating probe head. 14. A method according to claim 1 wherein the one or more factors which relate to the load is determined using a torque meter or accelerometer. 15. A method according to claim 1, further comprising determining an offset of a measurement path of the surface detecting device from a datum point, and wherein the offset is used in calculating the measurement error. 16. A method according to claim 15, wherein the measurement error is substantially proportional to (L cos .phi.).delta..theta., wherein L is a distance from the datum point, the datum point being in the articulating probe head, to the measurement path of the surface detecting device, .phi. is an angle between the surface detecting device and an axis normal to an axis of a structure onto which the articulating probe head is mounted and .delta..theta. is an angular deflection of the structure onto which the articulating probe head is mounted. 17. A method according to claim 16, wherein the surface detecting device is a contact probe and L is the distance between a tip of the surface detecting device and a center of rotation. 18. A coordinate positioning apparatus comprising: an articulating probe head having a surface detecting device, the surface detecting device being rotatable about at least one axis of the articulating probe head, a stiffness of a whole or a part of the coordinate positioning apparatus being known; a determining unit that determines one or more factors which relate to a load applied by a motion of the articulating probe head about said at least one axis at any particular instant; and a processor configured to determine a measurement error at the surface detecting device caused by the load, using the known stiffness of the whole or part of the coordinate positioning apparatus and the determined one or more factors relating to the load. 