A prosthetic finger includes a crossed four (4) bar linkage system having a base formed by a base bar, two cross bars, and an interface bar that engages an object to be held. The base bar is fixed to an artificial finger of an amputee. A first cross bar has a first end pivotally mounted to a first end of the base bar and a second cross bar has a first end pivotally mounted to a second end of the base bar. The first cross bar has a second end pivotally mounted to a first end of the interface bar and the second cross bar has a second end pivotally mounted to a second end of the interface bar. The first and second cross bars are slideably interconnected to one another at a cross point which changes its location as the prosthesis grasps objects of differing sizes and shapes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A conforming artificial finger four-bar linkage system, comprising: a base bar; an interface bar; a cross bar linkage that interconnects said base bar and said interface bar; said cross bar linkage including a first cross bar and a second cross bar; said interface bar adapted to contact an object to be articulated by the four-bar linkage system; said first cross bar having a first end pivotally mounted to a first end of said base bar and a second end pivotally mounted to a second end of said interface bar; said second cross bar having a first end pivotally mounted to a second end of said base bar and a second end pivotally mounted to a first end of said interface bar; and said interface bar adapted to rotate about an axis defined by a non-physical intersection of said first and second cross bars. 2. The four-bar linkage system of claim 1, further comprising: said first and second cross bars being coupled to said interface bar and said base bar by uniplanar, hinged joints. 3. The four-bar linkage system of claim 1, further comprising: said interface bar having a high-friction surface. 4. The four-bar linkage system of claim 1, further comprising: a mechanical bias for returning the four-bar linkage system to a position of repose upon disengaging from said object. 5. A conforming artificial finger four-bar linkage system, comprising: a base bar pivotally coupled to an interface bar by a crossed bar linkage that includes a first cross bar and a second cross bar, said interface bar adapted to contact an object to be articulated by the four-bar linkage system and said interface bar adapted to rotate about an axis defined by a non-physical intersection of said first and second cross bars; said base bar, said first cross bar, said second cross bar, and said interface bar having predetermined lengths that are related to one another by a ratio of 25:27:27:24, respectively. 6. The four-bar linkage system of claim 1, further comprising: said base bar, said first cross bar, said second cross bar, and said interface bar having predetermined lengths that are related to one another by a ratio of 25:27:27:24, respectively. 