Method and apparatus hems the edges of inner and outer panels by bending a peripheral flange of the outer panel over edge portions of the inner panel to form a panel assembly. A press apparatus has a lower platen and an upper platen. The outer panel is placed onto the lower platen and the inner panel is placed onto the lower panel with the peripheral flange of the outer panel surrounding the inner panel. The upper platen is lowered to capture the inner panel atop the outer panel. A first portion of the peripheral flange is hemmed by closing hemming dies over the first portion of the peripheral flange to bend the flange onto the inner panel. A second portion of the peripheral flange is hemmed by passing a hemming roller mechanism along the second portion of the peripheral flange to bend the flange onto the inner panel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of hemming together the side edges of inner and outer panels by bending a peripheral flange of the outer panel over the edge portion of the inner panel to form a panel assembly; comprising: providing a press apparatus having a stationary lower platen for supporting the outer panel and an upper platen that is raised and lowered relative to the tower platen; loading the outer panel onto the lower platen and the inner panel onto the lower panel with the peripheral flange of the outer panel surrounding the inner panel and then lowering the upper platen to capture the inner panel atop the outer panel; hemming at least a first portion of the peripheral flange by a hemming die mounted on the upper platen and closing over the first portion of the peripheral flange to bend the peripheral flange onto the inner panel upon the lowering of the upper platen; and hemming at least a second portion of the peripheral flange by passing a roller hemming mechanism along the second portion of the peripheral flange while the inner panel remains captured atop the inner panel by the upper platen to bend the peripheral flange onto the inner panel. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising said roller hemming mechanism having at least one roller carried by a multi-axis manipulator. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising said multi-axis manipulator being mounted to ride upon a track extending along side the lower platen of the press. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the first portion of the peripheral flange being first and second side edges of the panels that are opposed to each other and the second portion of the of the peripheral flange being third and fourth side edges of the panels that are opposed to each other. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the first portion of the peripheral flange being first and second opposing side edges of the panels and the second portion of the peripheral flange being third and fourth opposing side edges of the panels. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising said hemming die being operated to the closed position by the lowering motion of the upper platen. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising said roller hemming mechanism having at least one roller carried by a multi-axis manipulator that rides on a track extending along side the lower platen of the press. 8. A method of hemming together the four side edges of inner and outer panels by bending a peripheral flange of the outer panel over the edge portions of the inner panel to form a panel assembly; comprising: providing a press apparatus having a stationary lower platen for supporting the outer panel and an upper platen that is raised and lowered relative to the lower platen; loading the outer panel onto the lower platen and the inner panel onto the lower panel with the peripheral flange of the outer panel surrounding the inner panel and then lowering the upper platen to capture the inner panel atop the outer panel; hemming two opposing side edges of the inner and outer panels by closing hemming dies over the peripheral flange to bend the peripheral flange onto the inner panel; and hemming the other two opposing side edges of the panel assembly by passing rollers along the peripheral flanges at the other two side edges to bend the flange onto the inner panel. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising the passing of rollers along the peripheral flange while the hemming dies remain closed over the peripheral flange. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising said rollers being mounted on a track mechanism that extends along side the alongside the peripheral flange. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising said rollers being mounted on a track mechanism by a multi-axis manipulator. 12. A method of hemming together the edges of inner and outer panels by bending a peripheral flange of the outer panel over the side edge portions of the inner panel to form a panel assembly; comprising: providing a press apparatus having a stationary lower platen for supporting the outer panel and an upper platen that is raised and lowered relative to the lower platen; loading the outer panel onto the lower platen; loading the inner panel onto the outer panel with the peripheral flange of the outer panel surrounding the inner panel; lowering the upper platen to capture the inner panel atop the outer panel; first hemming a first portion of the peripheral flange by closing hemming dies associates with the press apparatus over the first portion of the peripheral flange to bend the peripheral flange onto the edge portions of the inner panel; and then hemming a second portion of the peripheral flange by passing a multi-axis-manipulated roller hemming mechanism progressively along a second portion of the peripheral flange while the hemming dies remain closed upon the peripheral flange; and then raising the upper platen of the press to release the hemmed together panels. 13. Apparatus for hemming together the side edges of inner and outer panels by bending a peripheral flange of the outer panel over the edge portions of the inner panel to form a panel assembly; comprising: a press apparatus having an upper platen that is raised and lowered and a stationary lower platen for supporting the outer panel with the inner panel loaded on top of the outer panel; locating mechanism carried by the upper platen to engage with the inner panel and locate and hold the inner panel when the upper platen is lowered; a hemming die mechanism having a hemming die for engaging with a first portion of the peripheral flange and bending the peripheral flange onto the inner panel; and a hemming roller mechanism having a hemming roller that passes progressively along a second portion of the peripheral flange to and bending the second portion of the peripheral flange onto the inner panel. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising first and second hemming die mechanisms provided along each of first and second side edges of the panels and first and second roller hemming mechanisms provided along each of third and fourth side edges of the panels. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising said roller hemming mechanism having at least one roller mounted on a multi-axis manipulator. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising said multi-axis manipulator being mounted on a track mechanism that extends alongside the third and fourth edges of the panels. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising said hemming die mechanism having an actuator to close the hemming die and hold the panels while the roller hemming mechanism is actuated. 