A pelvis interface may include a subject attachment module including a waist attachment and a back attachment. The interface may further include an arm assembly coupled to the subject attachment module, the arm assembly including a plurality of arms so coupled to one another and/or to the subject attachment module as to permit the subject attachment module at least one pelvis translation degree of freedom and at least one pelvis rotation degree of freedom. The interface may further include motors so coupled to the arm assembly as to actuate at least one pelvis translation degree of freedom and at least one pelvis rotation degree of freedom.
Claims We claim: 1. A pelvis interface comprising: a nonbackdriveable, high-impedance mobile base; and a backdriveable, low-impedance robot height-adjustably mounted to the base and comprising: a subject attachment module including: a waist attachment; and a back attachment; an arm assembly coupled to the subject attachment module, the arm assembly including a plurality of arms so coupled to one another and/or to the subject attachment module as to permit the subject attachment module, relative to the base, at least one pelvis translation degree of freedom and at least one pelvis rotation degree of freedom; and motors so coupled to the arm assembly as to actuate the subject attachment module relative to the base in at least one pelvis translation degree of freedom and at least one pelvis rotation degree of freedom. 2. The interface of claim 1, wherein the at least one pelvis rotational degree of freedom is about a vertical axis. 3. The interface of claim 2, wherein one or more of the motors is so coupled to the arm assembly as to actuate the rotational degree of freedom about the vertical axis. 4. The interface of claim 1, wherein the at least one translation degree of freedom is in a horizontal plane. 5. The interface of claim 4, wherein the arm assembly further permits a second pelvis translation degree of freedom. 6. The interface of claim 5, wherein the arm assembly further permits a third pelvis translation degree of freedom. 7. The interface of claim 6, wherein two of the pelvis translation degrees of freedom are in the horizontal plane and the third pelvis translation degree of freedom is along a vertical axis. 8. The interface of claim 7, wherein at least one motor actuates the vertical pelvis translation degree of freedom. 9. The interface of claim 7, wherein the motors actuate the two horizontal pelvis translation degrees of freedom. 10. The interface of claim 1, wherein the subject attachment module is coupled to the arm assembly at least through a rotary bearing that permits rotation of the subject attachment module about the forward-backward axis. 11. The interface of claim 1, further comprising a body weight support coupled to at least one of the arm assembly and the subject attachment module. 12. The interface of claim 1, wherein the plurality of arms in the arm assembly comprises a first arm, a second arm, a third arm, a fourth arm, a fifth arm, and a sixth arm, each arm having a proximal end and a distal end; and the plurality of motors comprises a first motor, a second motor, and a third motor. 13. The interface of claim 12, wherein: (a) the proximal end of the first arm is coupled to the first motor; (b) the distal end of the first arm is coupled to the proximal end of the second arm; (c) the distal end of the second arm is coupled to the subject attachment module or to a force transducer to which the subject attachment module is coupled; (d) the proximal end of the third arm is coupled to the second motor; (e) the distal end of the third arm is coupled to the proximal end of the fourth arm; (f) the distal end of the fourth arm is coupled to the subject attachment module or to the force transducer; (g) the proximal end of the fifth arm is coupled to the third motor; (h) the distal end of the fifth arm is coupled to the proximal end of the sixth arm; and (i) the distal end of the sixth arm is coupled to the second arm. 14. The interface of claim 1, further comprising a controller coupled to the motors and at least one sensor coupled to the controller, wherein: the sensor is responsive to a positional change or a force exerted on the subject attachment module to produce a signal indicative of such positional change or force; and the controller is responsive to the signal produced by the sensor to produce one or more signals to one or more of the motors to exert a torque on or to cause a displacement of the subject attachment module. 15. The interface of claim 14, wherein: the sensor is responsive to a positional change exerted on the subject attachment module to produce a signal indicative of such positional change; and the controller is responsive to the positional signal produced by the sensor to produce one or more signals to one or more of the motors to exert a torque on the subject attachment module. 16. The interface of claim 14, wherein: the sensor is responsive to a force exerted on the subject attachment module to produce a signal indicative of such force; and the controller is responsive to the force signal produced by the sensor to produce a signal to one or more of the motors to cause a displacement of the subject attachment module. 17. The interface of claim 14, wherein: the interface comprises at least two sensors; one of the sensors is responsive to a positional change exerted on the subject attachment module to produce a signal indicative of such positional change; one of the sensors is responsive to a force exerted on the subject attachment module to produce a signal indicative of such force; the controller is responsive to the positional signal and to the force signal to produce one or more signals to one or more of the motors to exert a torque on or to cause a displacement of the subject attachment module. 18. The interface of claim 14, wherein the mechanical impedance or mechanical admittance of the interface is substantially determined by the combined actions of the controller, motors and sensors. 19. A method comprising: attaching a subject to the subject attachment module of the pelvis interface defined by claim 1; and actuating at least one motor to impart a force or a torque to the arm assembly, thereby providing assistance, resistance, and/or perturbation to a pelvis motion by the subject. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising moving the base overground while actuating the at least one motor. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the at least one motor is so actuated as to match mechanical impedance of the robot to the mechanical impedance of the subject. 22. The interface of claim 1, further comprising a propulsion system actuating the mobile base. 23. The interface of claim 1, further comprising a height adjustment column extending vertically from the base and on which the robot is mounted and vertically adjustable. 