In accordance with the principles of the present invention utilizing a first radiation monitoring module, radiation information associated with the first radiation monitoring module within a tunnel is wirelessly transmitted to a second radiation monitoring module. The second radiation monitoring module is able to receive radiation information from the first radiation monitoring module for relay of the received radiation information to a central monitoring system. The radiation monitoring modules of the present invention allow long term monitoring of a tunnel's radiation levels with maintenance simply requiring replacement of a non-operational tunnel monitoring module by a robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A radiation monitoring module, comprising: a mount to mount a first radiation monitoring module within a storage tunnel; a radiation detector to detect radiation within a proximate vicinity of said first radiation monitoring module with said storage tunnel; and a wireless transmitter to wireless communicate said detected radiation with a second radiation monitoring module within said storage tunnel; wherein said radiation detector is comprised of a serpentine RF port to allow fore and aft communications while exposing shielded radiation detectors to said proximate vicinity. 2. The radiation monitoring module according to claim 1, wherein: said serpentine RF port is comprised of vanes on a downwind port to create a slight vacuum to improve an air draw across shielded radiation detectors. 3. The radiation monitoring module according to claim 1, further comprising: a redundant battery system. 4. The radiation monitoring module according to claim 1, wherein: said wireless transmitter is a piconet transceiver. 5. The radiation monitoring module according to claim 1, wherein: said wireless transmitter is operable in a low power mode and a high power mode. 6. The radiation monitoring module according to claim 1, wherein: said radiation monitoring module is able to communicate with a third radiation monitoring module further away from said first radiation monitoring module than said second radiation monitoring module. 7. The radiation monitoring module according to claim 1, wherein: said wireless transmitter is an infrared transmitter. 8. The radiation monitoring module according to claim 1, wherein: said wireless transmitter is adapted to communicate with a scatternet. 9. A method of monitoring radiation within a tunnel, comprising: mounting a first radiation monitoring module within a storage tunnel; determining a radiation value within a proximate vicinity of a first radiation monitoring module within said storage tunnel; establishing a wireless communication link between said first radiation monitoring module and a second radiation monitoring module within said storage tunnel; and transmitting said radiation information over said wireless communication link between said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation module; wherein said first radiation monitoring module and said radiation monitoring module comprise a serpentine RF port to allow fore and aft communications while exposing shielded radiation detectors to said proximate vicinity. 10. The method of monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 9, wherein: said serpentine RF port is comprised of vanes on a downwind port to create a slight vacuum to improve an air draw across shielded radiation detectors. 11. The method of monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 9, further comprising: periodically transmitting status information related to said first radiation monitoring module to said second radiation monitoring module. 12. The method of monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 9, further comprising: receiving at said first radiation monitoring module at least one of a status information and a radiation information from at least one of said second radiation monitoring module and a third radiation monitoring module; and transmitting said radiation information from said first radiation monitoring module to a central monitoring subsystem. 13. The method of monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 9, wherein: said wireless communication link is a piconet communication link. 14. The method of monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 9, wherein: said wireless communication link is an infrared communication link. 15. Apparatus for monitoring radiation within a tunnel, comprising: means for mounting a first radiation monitoring module within a storage tunnel; means for determining a radiation value within a proximate vicinity of a first radiation monitoring module within said storage tunnel; means for establishing a wireless communication link between said first radiation monitoring module and a second radiation monitoring module within said storage tunnel; and means for transmitting said radiation information over said wireless communication link between said first radiation monitoring module and said second radiation module; wherein said first radiation monitoring module and said radiation monitoring module comprise a serpentine RF port to allow fore and aft communications while exposing shielded radiation detectors to said proximate vicinity. 16. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 15, wherein: said serpentine RF port is comprised of vanes on a downwind port to create a slight vacuum to improve an air draw across shielded radiation detectors. 17. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 15, further comprising: means for periodically transmitting status information related to said first radiation monitoring module to said second radiation monitoring module. 18. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 15, further comprising: means for receiving at said first radiation monitoring module at least one of a status information and a radiation information from at least one of said second radiation monitoring module and a third radiation monitoring module; and means for transmitting said radiation information from said first radiation monitoring module to a central monitoring subsystem. 19. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 15, wherein: said wireless communication link is a piconet communication link. 20. The apparatus for monitoring radiation within a tunnel according to claim 15, wherein: said wireless communication link is an infrared communication link. 