A method and system for laser based instrument registration. The system includes an operating table coupled with a robot holding an instrument, and CT scanner. The CT scanner has first and second laser markers. The method includes moving the robot to align the instrument in a first position wherein a tip of the instrument is disposed within a first laser plane created by the first laser marker. Then, the robot moves the instrument to a second position wherein the entire instrument is disposed within the first laser plane. Coordinate data of the robot in the second position is obtained. Image data of a first slice is obtained from the CT scanner. The registration data is calculated based on the coordinate data and the image data.
Claims We claim: 1. A laser-based registration system, comprising: a robot having an end-effector capable of holding an instrument, said robot configured to orient said instrument about a point distal from said robot while maintaining one end of said instrument in contact with said point; a CT scanner having laser markers and configured to image an image slice; and a processing unit coupled with said robot and said CT scanner, said processing unit configured to control a movement of said robot, to determine the coordinate position of said robot, to receive imaging data from said CT scanner, and to calculate registration data by overlapping said instrument in image and robot coordinate systems. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said CT scanner includes three laser markers for creating three laser planes, respectively, a first and second laser plane being parallel to each other and being perpendicular to a third laser plane. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein said registration data is based upon imaging data collected for two positions of said instrument, as placed by said robot. 4. The system according to claim 2, wherein said registration data is based upon imaging data collected for two positions of said instrument, as placed by said robot. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein said processing unit includes an interface unit for allowing manual manipulation of said robot. 6. The system according to claim 4, wherein said processing unit includes an interface unit for allowing manual manipulation of said robot. 7. The system according to claim 2, wherein said first laser plane is coincident with a current CT image plane of said scanner. 8. The system according to claim 4, wherein said first laser plane is coincident with a current CT image plane of said scanner. 9. The system according to claim 4, wherein said registration data is calculated further based upon first coordinate data of said robot when said instrument is disposed entirely in said first laser plane in a first position. 10. The system according to claim 8, wherein said registration data is calculated further based upon second coordinate data of said robot when said instrument is disposed entirely in said first laser plane in a second position. 11. The system according to claim 9, wherein said registration data is calculated further based upon first image data of said robot when said instrument is disposed entirely in said first laser plane in said first position. 12. The system according to claim 10, wherein said registration data is calculated further based upon second image data of said robot when said instrument is disposed entirely in said first laser plane in said second position. 13. A method for laser-based instrument registration in a CT-guided system including an operating table coupled with a robot holding an instrument, and CT scanner, said CT scanner having first and second laser markers, said method comprising steps of: moving said robot to align said instrument in a first position wherein said instrument and a tip of said instrument are disposed entirely within a first laser plane created by said first laser marker when in the first position, wherein said first lser plane is coincident with a CT image plane of said CT scanner; obtaining coordinate date of said robot in said first position; moving said robot to align said instrument in a second position wherein said entire instrument is disposed within said first laser plane; obtaining coordinate data of said robot in said second position; obtaining image data of a first slice from said CT scanner; and calculating registration data based on said coordinate data and said image data. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein said step of moving said robot to align said instrument in a first position alignment includes moving said robot to align said instrument in said first position and moving said table until said instrument is disposed within a first laser plane created by said first laser marker. 15. The method according to claim 14, further including steps of: moving said robot to align said instrument in a third position wherein a tip of said instrument is disposed within a first laser plane created by said first laser marker; moving said robot to align said instrument in a fourth position wherein said entire instrument is disposed within said first laser plane; obtaining coordinate data of said robot in said fourth position; obtaining image data of a second slice from said CT scanner; and wherein said step of calculating registration data is based on said coordinate data for said second and fourth position and said image data of said first and second slice. 16. The method according to claim 15, further comprising a step of calculating geometric information about a plane created by said second and fourth positions to define a current image plane in robot space. 17. The method according to claim 13, wherein said step of calculating registration data includes overlapping coordinate data of said robot in said second position with image data about said instrument in said second position. 18. A laser-based registration system, comprising: a robot means for holding and orienting an instrument about a point distal from said robot means and while maintaining one end of said instrument in contact with said point; a CT scanner means for providing laser markers and imaging an image slice; and a processing means for controlling a movement of said robot means, for determining the coordinate position of said robot means, and for receiving imaging data from said CT scanner means and calculating registration data by overlapping said instrument into image and robot coordinate systems. 19. The system according to claim 18, wherein said CT scanner means includes three laser markers for creating three laser planes, respectively, a first and second laser plane being parallel to each other and being perpendicular to a third laser plane. 20. The system according to claim 18, wherein said registration data is based upon imaging data collected for two movements of said instrument by said robot means. 21. The system according to claim 19, wherein said registration data is based upon imaging data collected for two positions of said instrument, as placed by said robot means. 22. The system according to claim 18, wherein said processing means includes an interface means for allowing manual manipulation of said robot means. 23. The system according to claim 21, wherein said processing means includes an interface means for allowing manual manipulation of said robot means. 24. The system according to claim 19, wherein said first laser plane is coincident with a current CT image plane of said CT scanner means. 25. The system according to claim 21 wherein said first laser plane is coincident with a current CT image plane of said CT scanner means. 26. The system according to claim 21, wherein said registration data is calculated further based upon first coordinate data of said robot means when said instrument is disposed entirely in said first laser plane in a first position. 27. The system according to claim 25, wherein said registration data is calculated further based upon second coordinate data of said robot means when said instrument is disposed entirely in said first laser plane in a second position. 28. The system according to claim 26, wherein said registration data is calculated further based upon first image data of said robot means when said instrument is disposed entirely in said first laser plane in said first position. 29. The system according to claim 27, wherein said registration data is calculated further based upon second image data of said robot means when said instrument is disposed entirely in said first laser plane in said second position. 