Systems and methods for inspecting an object with a scanned beam of penetrating radiation are disclosed. Scattered radiation from the beam is detected, in either the backward or forward direction. Characteristic values of the backscattered radiation are compared to expected reference values to characterize the object. Additionally, penetrating radiation transmitted through the inspected object may be combined with scatter information. In certain embodiments, the inspected field of view is less than 0.1 steradians, and the detector is separate from the source of penetrating radiation and is disposed, with respect to the object, such as to subtend greater than 0.5 steradians in the field of view of the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An inspection system for inspecting an object, the system comprising: a source of penetrating radiation, disposed with respect to the object such that the inspected field of view is less than 0.1 steradians; a spatial modulator for forming the penetrating radiation into a beam for irradiating an object with a scanning profile; a detector for detecting scattered radiation from the object, separated from the source of penetrating radiation, and disposed, with respect to the object, such as to subtend greater than 0.5 steradians in a field of view of the object. 2. An inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the source of penetrating radiation and the detector are located on vehicles capable of road travel. 3. An inspection system according to claim 2, wherein the vehicles are robotic drone vehicles. 4. An inspection system according to claim 2 or 3, further comprising: a scan drive configured to regulate the speed of the vehicles. 5. An inspection system according to claim 2, wherein the detectors are buried in the ground in the area of interest. 6. An inspection system according to claim 5 further comprising: a structural support grid to protect the detectors from a passing object. 7. An inspection system according to claim 5 further comprising: pressure sensors integrated with the detectors configured to detect the presence of an object. 8. An inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the detectors are built into the walls of a room. 9. An inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the detectors are easily relocatable by hand. 10. An inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the source of radiation is an X-ray tube. 11. An inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the source of radiation is a gamma ray beam. 12. An inspection system according to claim 1, further comprising one or more chopper wheels with apertures configured to scan past the source and generate a scanning pencil beam. 13. An inspection system according to claim 1, further comprising a computer configured to continuously monitor output from repeat scans of the same region and automatically detect change. 14. An inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the source of penetrating radiation is mounted on a pivot mount. 15. An inspection system according to claim 1 further comprising: a stabilizer system configured to minimize source bounce on rough terrain. 16. An inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the detectors are concealed. 17. An inspection system according to claim 16, wherein the detectors are concealed in a ceiling. 18. The inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the detectors are free standing monoliths. 