A system for performing minimally invasive cardiac procedures includes a pair of surgical instruments that are coupled to a pair of robotic arms. The instruments have end effectors that can be manipulated to hold and suture tissue. The robotic arms are coupled to a pair of master handles by a controller. The handles can be moved by the surgeon to produce a corresponding movement of the end effectors. The system may also have a robotically controlled endoscope which allows the surgeon to remotely view the surgical site.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical robotic system that utilizes an endoscope,comprising: a first robotic arm; a first surgical instrument coupled to said first robotic arm; a second robotic arm; a second surgical instrument coupled to said second robotic arm; a third robotic arm coupled to the endoscope, the third robotic arm including a plurality of linkages and a plurality of motors, wherein the plurality of linkages are coupled together and movable by selective actuation of the plurality of motors so as to be capable of moving the endoscope in a three-dimensional space; a plurality of handles coupled to said first and second robotic arms; and a foot pedal coupled to said third robotic arm and the endoscope, and operable by an operator to move said third robotic arm and the endosdope by selective actuation of the plurality of motors. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a cabinet, said handles being connected to said cabinet. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said first and second robotic arms move in conjunction with movement of said handles. 4. The system of claim 3, further comprising an input device that can functionally disconnect said handles from said first and second robotic arms. 5. A medical robotic system that utilizes an endoscope, comprising: a first robotic arm, a first surgical instrument coupled to said first robotic arm; a second robotic arm; a second surgical instrument coupled to said second robotic arm; a third robotic arm coupled to the endoscope, the third robotic arm including a plurality of linkages and a plurality of motors, wherein the plurality of linkages are coupled together and movable by selective actuation of the plurality of motors so as to be capable of moving the endoscope in a three-dimensional space; a plurality of handles coupled to said first and second robotic arms; and input means for causing said third robotic arm to be moved according to input generated from sensed movement of a foot of a system operator by selective actuation of the plurality of motors. 6. The system of claim 5, further comprising a cabinet, said handles being connected to said cabinet. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein said first and second robotic arms move in conjunction with movement of said handles. 8. The system of claim 7, further comprising an input device that can functionally disconnect said handles from said first and second robotic arms. 9. A method for operating a medical robotic system comprising: causing a surgical instrument to be moved during a minimally invasive surgical procedure in response to an input received from a handle; receiving a camera view from an endoscope of a surgical site at which the minimally invasive surgical procedure is being performed; and causing the endoscope to be repositioned during the minimally invasive surgical procedure in response to an input received from a foot pedal by selective actuation of a plurality of motors in a robotic arm coupled to the endoscope so as to move the endoscope in a three-dimensional space. 10. A medical robotic system that utilizes an endoscope, comprising: a first robotic arm; a first surgical instrument coupled to the first robotic arm; a second robotic arm including a plurality of coupled together linkages and a plurality of motors; an endoscope coupled to the second robotic arm so as to be movable in a three-dimensional space by selective actuation of the plurality of motors; a first handle coupled to the first robotic arm and operable by an operator for manipulating the first surgical instrument; and a foot pedal coupled to the second robotic arm and operable by the operator for positioning the endoscope by selective actuation of the plurality of motors. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said foot pedal includes a button that can be depressed to actuate said second robotic arm. 12. The system of claim 10, further comprising a third robotic arm, and a second surgical instrument coupled to the third robotic arm. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising a second handle coupled to the third robotic arm and operable by the operator for manipulating the second surgical instrument. 14. A medical robotic system that utilizes an endoscope, comprising: a first robotic arm; a first surgical instrument coupled to the first robotic arm; a second robotic arm including a plurality of coupled together linkages and a plurality of motors; an endoscope coupled to the second robotic arm so as to be movable in a three-dimensional space by selective actuation of the plurality of motors; handle means for causing the first surgical instrument to be manipulated according to a first input generated from sensed movement of a hand of a surgeon; and input means for causing the endoscope to be positioned according to a second input generated from sensed movement of a foot of the surgeon by selective actuation of the plurality of motors. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said input means includes a foot pedal. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said foot pedal includes a button that can be depressed to activate said second robotic arm. 17. The system of claim 14, further comprising a third robotic arm and a second surgical instrument coupled to said third robotic arm. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein said handle means is positioned to be manipulatable by another hand of the surgeon for manipulating the second surgical instrument. 