A break-away mounting system for a continuous-motion, high-speed position conveyor system is disclosed. A support cradle may be suspended from a conveyor belt such that the support cradle maintains a fixed position and orientation relative to at least one point on the conveyor belt without inducing appreciable stress on the conveyor belt, the support cradle, or the coupling between the conveyor belt and the support cradle. The mount may include a leading rotatable bearing attached to the support cradle which may releasably engage a first key attached to the conveyor belt, the rotatable bearing adapted to accommodate rotational forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. The mount may also include a slide bearing attached to the support cradle which may releasably engage a second key attached to the conveyor belt, the slide bearing adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method comprising: driving a conveyor belt continuously along a transport path having at least one bend; and suspending a support cradle from the conveyor belt at two longitudinal positions such that the support cradle maintains a fixed position relative to a first one of the two longitudinal positions on the conveyor belt; accommodating rotation in yaw of the cradle about the first longitudinal position; and accommodating longitudinal translation at the second location due to variations in an absolute distance between the two longitudinal positions when turning about the at least one bend. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein coupling a rotatable bearing of the support cradle to a first key attached to the conveyor belt, the rotatable bearing being adapted to accommodate rotational forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein suspending a support cradle includes coupling a slide bearing of the support cradle to a second key attached to the conveyor belt, the slide bearing being adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. 4. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt; and a support cradle suspended from the conveyor belt at first and second longitudinal locations by a first coupling adapted to accommodate rotational forces and a second coupling adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the first coupling includes a rotatable bearing and a dowel. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the second coupling includes the slide bearing and a dowel. 7. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt; and a support cradle mounted on the conveyor belt via a first coupling adapted to accommodate rotational forces and a second coupling adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces wherein the first coupling includes a rotatable bearing and a first dowel, the second coupling includes a slide bearing and a second dowel, and the dowels are rigidly mounted vertically on the conveyor belt. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the dowels are bisected by the conveyor belt to form pieces having at least two relief surfaces that do not contact the conveyor belt. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the relief surfaces angle away from the conveyor belt such that at the minimum radius of the conveyor belt the relief surfaces can not contact the conveyor belt. 10. An apparatus comprising: a convey or belt; and a support cradle mounted on the conveyor belt via a first coupling adapted to accommodate rotational forces and a second coupling adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces wherein the support cradle is adapted to decouple from the conveyor belt in a predetermined direction upon experiencing an impact greater than a predefined amount of force. 11. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt; at least one mounting location on the conveyor belt including at least two keys extending from the belt; and a support suspended from the conveyor belt including at least a rotatable bearing and a slide bearing, each bearing adapted to engage one of the keys, wherein the support may be mounted on the conveyor belt at the mounting location by engaging the keys with the bearings wherein the rotatable bearing is adapted to accommodate yaw rotation relative to one of the keys, and the slide bearing is adapted to accommodate longitudinal translation relative to another of the keys. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the rotatable bearing is disposed as a lead bearing relative to the direction of the conveyor belt. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the bearings are operative to release from the keys in response to a predetermined amount of force applied to the support. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the keys are rigidly attached to the conveyor belt so as to minimize a contact area of the keys. 15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the keys are rigidly attached to the conveyor belt such that a height of the conveyor belt is the same without the keys attached. 16. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt; and a support cradle mounted on the conveyor belt via a first coupling adapted to accommodate rotational forces and a second coupling adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces wherein the first coupling includes a rotatable bearing and a first dowel, the second coupling includes a slide bearing and a second dowel, and the dowels are rigidly mounted vertically on the conveyor belt. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the dowels are bisected by the conveyor belt to form pieces having at least two relief surfaces that do not contact the conveyor belt. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the relief surfaces angle away from the conveyor belt such that at the minimum radius of the conveyor belt the relief surfaces can not contact the conveyor belt. 19. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt; and a support cradle mounted on the conveyor belt via a first coupling adapted to accommodate rotational forces and a second coupling adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces wherein the support cradle is adapted to decouple from the conveyor belt in a predetermined direction upon experiencing an impact greater than a predefined amount of force. 20. An apparatus comprising: a continuously moving conveyor belt; at least one mounting location on the continuously moving conveyor belt including at least two keys extending from the belt; and a support suspended from the at least two keys including at least a rotatable bearing and a slide bearing, each bearing adapted to engage either key, wherein the support may be mounted on the continuously moving conveyor belt at the mounting location by engaging the keys with the bearings. 