An apparatus and method for forming and controlling a pattern for spraying surfaces with a fluid uses a rotary atomizer spray head having an air shaping ring with shaping air nozzles inclined in a direction of rotation of a bell cup to direct the air onto the cup surface near the cup edge. The air shape ring optimizes the shape air control to create a stable, focused pattern that minimizes robot speed while maintaining high transfer efficiency. Nozzles extending parallel to the axis of rotation of the bell cup can be provided. Selection of the shaping air flow rate produces broad, collapsed and tubular spraying patterns.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for forming and controlling a pattern for spraying surfaces with a fluid using a rotary atomizer spray head comprising the steps of: a. providing a shaping air assembly connected to a supply of pressured air and having an open end; b. rotatably mounting a bell cup in the open end of the shaping air assembly on an axis of rotation, wherein the axis of rotation is a longitudinal axis of the bell cup; c. mounting a shaping air ring with a plurality of nozzles in the open end of the shaping air assembly surrounding the bell cup and adjacent an outer edge of the bell cup, the nozzles each having an inlet end for receiving air from the source of pressured air and an outlet for directing a flow of shaping air past the outer edge of the bell cup, wherein each of the plurality of nozzles have a right handed triad, base coordinate system that is placed on the longitudinal axis of the nozzle with an origin in the same plane as an outlet of the nozzle, the base coordinate system including an X-axis extending positively outward from the outlet of the nozzle, parallel with the axis of rotation of the bell cup, and away from the tubular housing, a Z-axis extending positively away from the outlet of the nozzle and perpendicular to the axis of rotation of the bell cup, and a Y-axis orthogonal to the X-axis and the Z-axis, at least one of the nozzles being angled from the inlet end to the outlet end in a predetermined direction of rotation of the bell cup, wherein a longitudinal axis of the at least one nozzle is not parallel to the axis of rotation of the bell cup, wherein the at least one nozzle extends from the inlet end to the outlet end in a +X and a -Y direction; and d. rotating the bell cup in the predetermined direction of rotation while supplying a fluid to be sprayed to the bell cup to maintain a high transfer efficiency and improved surface finish uniformity of the fluid. 2. The method according to claim 1 including at least one of the steps of: e. selecting the angle from a range of angles; f. selecting a diameter of the outlet end of the at least one nozzle from a range of nozzle diameters; g. selecting a location for the at least one nozzle outlet end at a point in a range of points rearward of and adjacent to the bell cup outer edge; h. selecting a number of the nozzles from a range of a total number of nozzles; i. selecting an outer diameter of the outer edge of the bell cup from a range of outer diameters; and j. selecting a flow rate forte shaping air from a range of flow rates. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the range of angles is from 10.degree. to 45.degree.. 4. The method according to claim 2 wherein the range of the diameter of the outlet end of the at least one nozzle is from 0.4 mm to 1.0 mm. 5. The method according to claim 2 wherein the range of the location of the at least one nozzle outlet is from 2 mm to 20 mm rearward of the bell cup outer edge. 6. The method according to claim 2 wherein the range of the number of nozzles is from 30 to 120 nozzles. 7. The method according to claim 2 wherein the range of the outer diameter of the outer edge of the bell cup is from 40 mm to 120 mm. 8. The method according to claim 2 wherein the range of the flow rate is from 50 slpm to 1000 slpm. 9. The method according to claim 1 wherein each of said nozzles is angled toward the predetermined direction of rotation and including a step of discharging the shaping air from said nozzles in a range of from 50 slpm to 180 slpm to form a broad pattern of the fluid being sprayed. 10. The method according to claim 1 wherein each of said nozzles is angled toward the predetermined direction of rotation and including a step of discharging the shaping air from said nozzles in a range of from 240 slpm to 400 slpm to form a collapsed pattern of the fluid being sprayed. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least another one of the nozzles extends generally parallel to the axis of rotation from the inlet end to the outlet end. 12. The method according to claim 11 including a step of discharging the shaping air from the straight nozzles in a range of from 200 slpm to 400 slpm to form a tubular pattern of the fluid being sprayed. 13. An apparatus for forming and controlling a pattern for spraying surfaces with a fluid using a rotary atomizer spray head comprising: a tubular housing having an open end; a bell cup rotatably supported in said open end of said housing and having an outer surface terminating in an annular edge from which the fluid is thrown by centrifugal force for atomization; a motor for rotating said bell cup in a predetermined direction about an axis of rotation, wherein the axis of rotation is a longitudinal axis of the bell cup; and an annular shaping air ring secured to said housing at said open end adjacent said annular edge and including a plurality of nozzles for directing shaping air past said annular edge of said bell cup, each said nozzle having an inlet end connected to a source of shaping air and an outlet end discharging the shaping air, wherein each of the plurality of nozzles have a right handed triad, base coordinate system that is placed on the longitudinal axis of the nozzle with an origin in the same plane as an outlet of the nozzle, the base coordinate system including an X-axis extending positively outward from the outlet of the nozzle, parallel with the axis of rotation of the bell cup, and away from the tubular housing, a Z-axis extending positively away from the outlet of the nozzle and perpendicular to the axis of rotation of the bell cup, and a Y-axis orthogonal to the X-axis and the Z-axis, and at least a first group of said nozzles being angled from said inlet end to said outlet end in said predetermined direction of rotation of said bell cup, wherein a longitudinal axis of each said nozzle of said first group is not parallel to a longitudinal axis of said bell cup whereby the shaping air discharged from said nozzles reduces turbulence and cleaning frequency of the spray head, wherein each of the first group of nozzles extend from the inlet end to the outlet end in a +X and a -Y direction. 14. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said nozzles are angled in a range from 10.degree. to 45.degree.. 15. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said nozzles have an outlet end diameter in a range from 0.4 mm to 1.0 mm. 16. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said outlet ends of said nozzles are located rearward from said annular edge in a range from 2 mm to 20 mm. 17. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the plurality of said nozzles is in a range from 30 to 120. 18. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said annular edge has a diameter in a range of from 40 mm to 120 mm. 19. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said nozzles are formed to produce a shaping air flow rate in a range from 50 slpm to 1000 slpm. 20. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the plurality of nozzles for directing shaping air past said annular edge of said bell cup includes at least a second group of said nozzles each having a longitudinal axis extending in a direction generally parallel to said axis of rotation. 21. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the tubular housing includes a shaping air passage connected to a shaping air supply line and having a slot outlet at one end facing an outer surface of the bell cup, and the annular shaping air ring includes an air passageway disposed along an outer edge of the annular shaping air ring for receiving shaping air from the shaping air passage, the nozzles in fluid communication with the air passageway. 22. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the air passageway is an angled slot formed in a peripheral edge of the annular shaping air ring, the angled slot slip fining with the slot outlet. 23. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the outer edge of the annular shaping air ring is larger than an inner edge of the annular shaping air ring to provide a tight fit about an outwardly angled edge of the open end of the tubular housing. 24. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein each of the first group of nozzles is configured to provide an angled shaping air flow defined by a fluid vector extending outwardly from the outlet end of the nozzle to a point that is in the +X and -Y direction. 25. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said shaping air ring includes a second group of said nozzles extending generally parallel to said axis of rotation from an inlet end to an outlet end, wherein each of the second group of nozzles extend from the inlet end to the outlet end in only a +X direction. 26. The apparatus according to claim 25, wherein each of the second group of nozzles is configured to provide a perpendicular shaping air flow defined by a fluid vector extending outwardly from the outlet end of the nozzle to a point that is only in the +X direction. 27. An apparatus for forming and controlling a pattern for spraying surfaces with a fluid using a rotary atomizer spray head comprising: a tubular housing having an open end; a bell cup rotatably supported in said open end of said housing and having an outer surface terminating in an annular edge from which the fluid is thrown by centrifugal force for atomization; a motor for rotating said bell cup in a predetermined direction about an axis of rotation, wherein the axis of rotation is a longitudinal axis of the bell cup; and an annular shaping air ring secured to said housing at said open end adjacent said annular edge and including a plurality of nozzles for directing shaping air past said annular edge of said bell cup, each said nozzle having an inlet end for connection to a source of shaping air and an outlet end discharging the shaping air, wherein each of the plurality of nozzles have a right handed triad, base coordinate system that is placed on the longitudinal axis of the nozzle with an origin in the same plane as an outlet of the nozzle, the base coordinate system including an X-axis extending positively outward from the outlet of the nozzle, parallel with the axis of rotation of the bell cup, and away from the tubular housing, a taxis extending positively away from the outlet of the nozzle and perpendicular to the axis of rotation of the bell cup, and a Y-axis orthogonal to the X-axis and the Z-axis, at least a second group of said nozzles each having a longitudinal axis extending in a direction generally parallel to said axis of rotation, and at least a first group of said nozzles being angled from said inlet end to said outlet end in said predetermined direction of rotation of said bell cup, wherein each said nozzle of said first group has a longitudinal axis that is not parallel to said axis of rotation, wherein each of the first group of nozzles extend from the inlet end to the outlet end in a +X and a -Y direction; and a manifold connecting the source of shaping air to said nozzles whereby the shaping air discharged from said nozzles reduces turbulence and cleaning frequency of the spray head. 28. The apparatus according to claim 27 including at least one valve for selectively connecting the source of shaping air to at least one of said first group of nozzles and said second group of nozzles. 