The invention provides an assay device for quantification or detection of the presence or absence of an analyte in a liquid sample, comprising a molding (1) permanently or removably attached to a substantially planar plate (2) such that a part of said molding forms a capillary chamber (3) between said plate and the said molding, the device further comprising a chamber (5) into which a test sample and/or reagent can be introduced and further comprising a chamber (7) capable of accommodating an absorbent pad, wherein the said chamber into which a test sample and said chamber capable of holding an absorbent pad are in lateral flow contact via the said capillary chamber (3).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An assay device for quantification or detection of the presence or absence of an analyte in a liquid sample, comprising: (a) a first sub-assembly; (b) a capillary chamber; (c) a sample receiving zone in the first sub-assembly permanently fixed in relation to and in contact with the capillary chamber; (d) a second sub-assembly comprising a holder to accommodate an absorbent pad; and (e) wherein the first and second sub-assemblies are arranged in movable sliding relation relative to each other such that in a first position there is a gap between the holder of the second sub-assembly and the capillary chamber and in a second position the holder of the second sub-assembly is in contact with the capillary chamber, and wherein the capillary chamber is between said sample receiving zone and said holder. 2. A device as in claim 1 wherein the capillary chamber has a first edge in contact with the sample receiving zone and a second edge that contacts said holder of said second sub-assembly and wherein the depth of the capillary chamber is greater at the first edge of the capillary chamber in contact with the sample-receiving zone than at the second edge of the capillary chamber that comes into contact with said holder. 3. A device as in claim 2 wherein the device comprises a planar plate, wherein said planar plate or a portion thereof forms a wall of the capillary chamber. 4. A device as in claim 1 wherein the device comprises a planar plate, wherein said planar plate or a portion thereof forms a wall of the capillary chamber. 5. A device as in claim 1 wherein the capillary chamber comprises a zone selected from the group consisting of a detection zone and a binding zone or a combination thereof. 6. A device as in any one of claim 1, 2 or 4 wherein at least a portion of the planar plate or a portion of a wall of the capillary chamber is transparent to radiation selected from the group consisting of visible, UV aid/or infra-red radiation. 7. A device as in claim 4 wherein said planar plate is a microscope slide. 8. A device as in claim 7 wherein the said microscope slide is a glass microscope slide. 9. A device as in claim 1 wherein the first and/or second sub-assembly comprises a plastic molding. 10. A device as in claim 1 wherein the device comprises material with high thermal conductivity. 11. A device as in claim 10 wherein said material with high thermal conductivity comprises copper. 12. A device as in either of claim 10 or 11 wherein said capillary chamber is in contact with or comprises in part said material with high thermal conductivity. 13. A device as in claim 1 wherein the device is adapted to utilize a visual signal in quantification or detection of the presence or absence of an analyte in a liquid sample. 14. A device as in claim 1 wherein the device is adapted to utilize a fluorescent signal in quantification or detection of the presence or absence of an analyte in a liquid sample. 15. A method of forming an assay device comprising permanently or removably attaching a planar plate to an assembly such that a first sub-assembly of said assembly forms a planar capillary chamber between said plate and said assembly and participates in forming a sample receiving zone on one side of said capillary chamber, such that said sample receiving zone and said capillary chamber are in permanent fixed contact, the method further comprising slidingly attaching a second sub-assembly to the first sub-assembly, the second sub-assembly comprising a holder to accommodate an absorbent pad, whereby the holder of the second sub-assembly is moveable relative to the capillary chamber such that said holder can be moved in and out of contact with a second side of said capillary chamber. 16. A method as in claim 15 further comprising immobilizing one or more capture reagents on said planar plate. 17. A method as in claim 15 further comprising attaching the second sub-assembly to the planar plate and/or the first sub-assembly for forming part of an assay device. 18. A method of quantifying or detecting the presence or absence of an analyte in a liquid sample, comprising: (a) applying the liquid sample to a device comprising: 1) a first sub-assembly; 2) a capillary chamber; 3) a sample receiving zone in the first sub-assembly in permanent contact with a first side of the capillary chamber; 4) a second sub-assembly comprising a holder to accommodate an absorbent pad; and 5) wherein the first and second sub-assemblies are arranged in sliding relation to each other such that in a first position there is a gap between the holder of the second sub-assembly and the capillary chamber and a second position in which the holder of the second sub-assembly is in contact with a second side of the capillary chamber; wherein the device is in the first position when the liquid sample is applied to the device; and (b) moving the second sub-assembly to the second position. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein (b) is performed after a determined time has elapsed since the application of the liquid sample to the device. 