A break-away mounting system for a continuous-motion, high-speed position conveyor system is disclosed. A support cradle may be suspended from a conveyor belt such that the support cradle maintains a fixed position and orientation relative to at least one point on the conveyor belt without inducing appreciable stress on the conveyor belt, the support cradle, or the coupling between the conveyor belt and the support cradle. The mount may include a leading rotatable bearing attached to the support cradle which may releasably engage a first key attached to the conveyor belt, the rotatable bearing adapted to accommodate rotational forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. The mount may also include a slide bearing attached to the support cradle which may releasably engage a second key attached to the conveyor belt, the slide bearing adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor including a first key and a second key; and a support cradle including a first bearing adapted to accommodate rotational forces and a second bearing adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces, wherein the bearings are adapted to couple to the keys and the first key is different than the second key. 2. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor including a first key and a second key; and a support cradle including a first bearing adapted to accommodate rotational forces and a second bearing adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces, wherein the bearings are adapted to couple to the keys. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the keys are rigidly mounted on the conveyor. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the bearings are adapted to releasably couple to the keys. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the first key is identical to the second key. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the first bearing precedes the second bearing when the bearings are coupled to the keys and the conveyor is moving. 7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the second bearing precedes the first bearing when the bearings are coupled to the keys and the conveyor is moving. 8. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the first bearing includes a rotatable bearing. 9. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the second bearing includes a slide bearing. 10. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor including a first dowel and a second dowel; and a support cradle including a first bearing adapted to accommodate rotational forces and a second bearing adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces, wherein the bearings are adapted to couple to the dowels. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the dowels are rigidly mounted on the conveyor. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the bearings are adapted to releasably couple to the dowels. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first dowel is identical to the second dowel. 14. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first bearing precedes the second bearing when the bearings are coupled to the dowels and the conveyor is moving. 15. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the second bearing precedes the first bearing when the bearings are coupled to the dowels and the conveyor is moving. 16. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first bearing includes a rotatable bearing. 17. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the second bearing includes a slide bearing. 18. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor including a first dowel and a second dowel; and a support cradle including a first bearing adapted to accommodate rotational forces and a second bearing adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces, wherein the bearings are adapted to couple to the dowels and the first dowel is different than the second dowel. 19. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor including a first dowel and a second dowel; and a support cradle including a first bearing adapted to accommodate rotational forces and a second bearing adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces, wherein the bearings are adapted to couple to the dowels and the dowels are mounted on the conveyor in a vertical orientation relative to a longitudinal dimension of the dowels and half of each dowel is mounted to each side of the conveyor. 