The invention relates to the control of an orienting/positioning system comprising comprising at least a sensor and an actuator for controlling an orienting and/or positioning action adapted to change an input space of the sensor. A first step evaluates pre-action output information of the sensor in order to detect a pre-action position of a manipulating device in the input space of the sensor. A second step decides on a targeted post-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor. A third step defines a command for the actuator by mapping any deviation of the pre-action position and the targeted post-action position in the input space of the sensor to actuator control coordinates using a predefined mapping function. A fourth step orients/positions the manipulating device according to the defined command in order to carry out the orienting/positioning action. A fifth step detects a real post-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor. A sixth step adapts the mapping function used in step three based on any difference of the real post-action position and the targeted post-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor in order to carry out an incremental adaptive learning of the mapping function. According to one embodiment of the present invention, steps S1 to S6 are cyclically repeated at least once using the respectively adapted mapping function.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling an orienting/positioning system, the orienting/positioning system comprising at least a sensor and an actuator for controlling at least one of an orienting action and a positioning action adapted to change an input space of the sensor, the method comprising the steps of: (S1) evaluating pre-action output information of the sensor in order to detect a pre-action position of a manipulating device in the input space of the sensor; (S2) determining a targeted post-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor; (S3) defining a command for the actuator by mapping any deviation of the pre-action position and the targeted post-action position in the input space of the sensor to actuator control coordinates using a predefined mapping function; (S4) orienting the manipulating device by the actuator according to the defined command in order to carry out the orienting action; (S5) detecting a real post-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor; and (S6) adapting the mapping function used in step S3 based on any difference of the real post-action position and the targeted post-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor in order to carry out an incremental adaptive learning of the mapping function, said adapting comprising the steps of: determining a correction signal based on any difference of the real post-action position and the targeted position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor, adapting the mapping function taking into account the correction signal, the executed actuator command and the pre-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor, determining a confidence value based on a plausibility of the difference of the real post-action position and the targeted position of the manipulating device, and modulating an adaptation vector with the confidence value such that an adaptation rate depends on the confidence value; wherein steps S1 to S6 are cyclically repeated at least once using the respectively adapted mapping function. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein before adapting the mapping function, an adaptation vector is multiplied with a factor larger than or equal to 0 and smaller than or equal to 1 in order to control an adaptation rate for the mapping function. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the mapping function is implemented by means of a look-up table. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein in steps S1 to S6, for each cycle, not only the position of the manipulating device, but also a neighborhood in a defined range surrounding the manipulating device is used. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the range of the neighborhood can be changed between two subsequent cycles. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the adaptation of the mapping function is carried out in the sensor coordinates. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the adaptation of the mapping function is carried out in the actuator coordinates. 8. A computer software product adapted for implementing the method of claim 1 when running on a computing device. 9. An auto-calibrating orienting/positioning system, comprising at least a sensor means, a computing means and an actuator means for controlling at least one of an orienting and a positioning action of a manipulating device adapted to change an input space of the sensor means, the computing means comprising: means for evaluating pre-action output information of the sensor means in order to detect a pre-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor means; means for deciding on a targeted post-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor means; means for commanding the actuator means, a command being generated by mapping any deviation of the pre-action position and the targeted post-action position in the input space of the sensor means to actuator control coordinates using a predefined mapping function; means for detecting a real post-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor means; and means for calibrating the mapping function based on any difference of the real post-action position and the targeted post-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor means in order to carry out an incremental adaptive learning of the mapping function, said means for calibrating comprising: means for determining a correction signal based on any difference of the real post-action position and the targeted position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor, wherein the mapping function is calibrated taking into account the correction signal and the pre-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor means, means for adapting the mapping function taking into account the correction signal, the executed actuator command and the pre-action position of the manipulating device in the input space of the sensor, means for determining a confidence value based on a plausibility of the difference of the real post-action position and the targeted position of the manipulating device, and means for modulating an adaptation vector with the confidence value such that an adaptation rate depends on the confidence value. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein before the calibration of the mapping function, the correction signal is multiplied with a factor larger than or equal to 0 and smaller than or equal to 1 in order to control an adaptation rate for the mapping function. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein the mapping function is implemented by means of a look-up table. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the sensor means comprise at least one of a camera or a microphone. 13. The system of claim 9, wherein the manipulating device comprises a robotic device. 