A fixture and method is provided for gripping an article, such as a sputtering target. The fixture comprises a base, a first set of contact rollers, and a second set of contact rollers, wherein at least one of the first set and the second set are adjustably positioned relative to the other of the first set and the second set on the base. The contact rollers can be configured as v-grooved wheels that will only touch chamfered portions of an outer diameter of the sputtering target when the contact rollers are clamped against the sputtering target. At least one of the first set and the second set of contact rollers can be pivotally mounted on a slide, with the slide being adjustably positioned on the base of the fixture.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for manufacturing a sputtering target, comprising: a robotic part handling sub system; an optional weighing sub system adapted to measure the weight of a pre-finished and/or finished sputtering target; a machining sub system adapted to finish machine a pre-finished sputtering target; a cleaning sub system adapted to clean a pre-finished sputtering target; an optional inspection sub system adapted to measure dimensions of a pre-finished and/or finished sputtering target; a feedback control sub system adapted to provide control signals to one or more of the robotic part handling sub system, the weighing sub system, the cleaning sub system, and/or the inspection sub system to control processing performed by one or more of the sub systems; and wherein the weighing sub system is present and is adapted to compare the actual measured weight of a prefinished or finished sputtering target with an expected weight or previously recorded weight for the same sputtering target as stored in the feedback control sub system, and wherein said weighing sub system further includes a marking device adapted to mark a prefinished or finished sputtering target. 2. The system of claim 1, further including: a computer numerically controlled machining sub system adapted to finish machine one or more surfaces of a pre-finished or semi-finished sputtering target. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the robotic part handling sub system comprises a multi-axis, modular, electric, servo-driven robot. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the robotic part handling sub system comprises a single carriage, heavy duty, floor-mount robot transport unit. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the robotic part handling sub system further comprises a multi-axis, modular, electric, servo-driven robot, the robot transport unit transporting the multi-axis, modular, electric, servo-driven robot. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a product load station, wherein parts to be manufactured into sputtering targets are staged and mounted in fixtures adapted to hold the parts during further processing. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the product load station comprises multiple universal part fixtures, each adapted to hold a part to be manufactured into a sputtering target. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the product load station comprises a floor supported bridge crane. 9. the system of claim 6, wherein the product load station comprises a vacuum lifting mechanism. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the cleaning sub system comprises a degreasing, cleaning, and drying station. 11. The system of claim 1, further including a grit blast station adapted to etch at least a portion of a pre-finished sputtering target. 12. The system of claim 1, further including a coating station adapted to coat at least a portion of a pre-finished sputtering target. 13. The system of claim 1, further including a secondary cleaning sub system, the secondary cleaning sub system comprising one or more stations that are provided in a zone separate from a zone that induces the weighing sub system, the cleaning sub system, and the inspection sub system. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the secondary cleaning sub system comprises an ultrasonic cleaning station, and an inert gas-filled clean room station. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein the secondary automatic part handling sub system is provided for transferring a part to be manufactured into a sputtering target to and/or between one or more of the ultrasonic cleaning station and the inert gas-filled clean room station. 16. A method of manufacturing a sputter target, comprising: gripping a pre-finished sputtering target utilizing a robotic part handling apparatus; weighing the pre-finished sputtering target and comparing the actual weight of the part to an expected weight or previously recorded weight, determining whether further processing of the part should be performed based on the results of comparing the actual weight to the expected weight; finish machining the part to desired dimensions; cleaning the finish machined part; and inspecting the finish machined part to determine conformance of the dimensions of the finish machined part with desired dimensions. 17. The method of claim 16, further including leak testing the finish machined and cleaned part. 18. The method of claim 16, further including grit blasting at least a portion of the pre-finished sputtering target. 19. The method of claim 16, further including moving the finish machined and cleaned part to a secondary cleaning station wherein further cleaning is performed including one or more of deionized water cleaning and rinsing, ultrasonic cleaning, and filtered air blow drying. 20. The method of claim 16, further including: providing a system controller; providing an input signal to the system controller indicative of the presence of a part at a desired location for further processing including one or more of gripping the part, weighing the part, finish machining the part, and cleaning the part; and performing the one or more processing operations upon receiving a control signal from the system controller based on receipt by the system controller of the input signal indicative of the presence of the part. 