A robotic system and process for automatically orienting/positioning a vehicle panel prior to its installation to a vehicle. The panel is first moved by the robot from a temporary storage position to an alignment fixture that acts to initially define the orientation/position of the panel in two directions. The robot subsequently contacts the panel such that the panel is pushed against a position stop that defines the position of the panel in a third direction. With the panel properly oriented/positioned, the robot removes the panel from the alignment fixture and transfers it to the vehicle for installation. Panels of dissimilar size and/or shape may be installed using the same system and process.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vehicle panel alignment process, comprising: providing an alignment fixture for receiving a vehicle panel; locating a robot to move said panel between a temporary storage position, said alignment fixture, and a vehicle to which said panel is to be installed; once deposited to said alignment fixture by said robot, using a pushing element attached to said robot to allow said robot to move said panel against a position stop of said alignment fixture, thereby ensuring the position of said panel; and using said robot to move said panel from said alignment fixture to said vehicle. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein said alignment fixture is set at a compound angle. 3. The process of claim 2, wherein said alignment fixture is tilted rearward with respect to vertical and also to one side. 4. The process of claim 1, wherein said alignment fixture includes a rear support/stop and a bottom/support stop that act to define the orientation/position of said panel in two directions when said panel is initially placed on said alignment fixture. 5. The process of claim 1, further comprising an end effector attached to said robot and provided to grasp said panel, said end effector including at least one suction cup in communication with a suction generating device. 6. The process of claim 5, wherein after said robot places said panel against said rear support/stop of said alignment fixture, suction generation is terminated, but said at least one suction cup remains slidably affixed to said panel via a vacuum existing therebetween. 7. The process of claim 6, further comprising moving said robot and said panel toward said bottom support/stop at least until a corresponding portion of said panel makes contact therewith. 8. The process of claim 7, further comprising subsequently releasing said vacuum between said at least one suction cup and said panel. 9. The process of claim 1, further comprising a sensor for indicating when said panel has made contact with said position stop. 10. The process of claim 1, wherein said temporary storage position comprises a delivery cart. 11. The process of claim 1, wherein said vehicle panel comprises a hood skin. 12. A process for orienting/positioning a vehicle panel prior to its robotic installation to a vehicle, comprising: providing an alignment fixture for receiving a vehicle panel, said alignment fixture having supports/stops that initially define the orientation/position of a panel in two directions when said panel is initially placed on said alignment fixture; locating a robot to move said panel between a temporary storage position, said alignment fixture, and a vehicle to which said panel is to be installed; attaching an end effector to said robot, said end effector adapted to grasp said panel by using one or more suction cups in communication with a suction generating device; once deposited to said alignment fixture by said robot, using a pushing element attached to said robot to subsequently move said panel against a position stop of said alignment fixture, thereby ensuring the position of said panel in a third direction; and using said robot to remove said panel from said alignment fixture and install it to said vehicle. 13. The process of claim 12, wherein said alignment fixture is set at a compound angle. 14. The process of claim 13, wherein said alignment fixture is tilted rearward with respect to vertical and also to one side. 15. The process of claim 12, wherein said supports/stops include a rear support/stop and a bottom/support stop that act to define the orientation/position of an underside surface and a rear surface of said panel, respectively. 16. The process of claim 15, wherein after said robot places said panel against said rear support/stop of said alignment fixture, suction generation is terminated, but said at least one suction cup remains slidably affixed to said panel via a vacuum existing therebetween. 17. The process of claim 16, further comprising moving said robot and said panel toward said bottom support/stop at least until a corresponding portion of said panel makes contact therewith. 18. The process of claim 17, further comprising subsequently releasing said vacuum between said at least one suction cup and said panel. 19. The process of claim 12, wherein said pushing element is attached to said end effector. 20. The process of claim 12, further comprising a sensor for indicating when said panel has made contact with said position stop. 21. The process of claim 12, wherein said vehicle panel comprises a hood skin. 22. A robotically accomplished vehicle panel orienting/positioning and installation process, comprising: providing an alignment fixture for receiving a vehicle panel, said alignment fixture having at least one rear supports/stop and at least one bottom support/stop that define the orientation/position of a panel in two directions when said panel is initially placed on said alignment fixture; locating a robot to move said panel between a temporary storage location, said alignment fixture, and a vehicle to which said panel is to be installed; attaching an end effector to said robot, said end effector adapted to grasp said panel by using one or more suction cups in communication with a suction generating device; using said robot to transfer said panel from said temporary storage location to a position initially against said rear support/stop and above said bottom support/stop of said alignment fixture; subsequently terminating suction generation with respect to said one or more suction cups, said one or more suction cups remaining slidably affixed to said panel via a preexisting vacuum therebetween; moving said robot and said panel toward said bottom support/stop at least until a corresponding portion of said panel makes contact therewith; subsequently releasing said vacuum between said one or more suction cups and said panel; using said robot and a pushing element attached thereto to subsequently move said panel against a position stop of said alignment fixture, thereby ensuring the position of said panel in a third direction; and using said robot to remove said panel from said alignment fixture and install said panel to said vehicle. 23. The process of claim 22, wherein said alignment fixture is set at a compound angle. 24. The process of claim 23, wherein said alignment fixture is tilted rearward with respect to vertical and also to one side. 25. The process of claim 22, wherein said rear support/stop and said bottom/support stop that act to define the orientation/position of an underside surface and a rear surface of said panel, respectively. 26. The process of claim 22, wherein said pushing element is attached to said end effector. 27. The process of claim 22, further comprising a sensor for indicating when said panel has made contact with said position stop. 28. The process of claim 22, wherein said vehicle panel comprises a hood skin. 29. A vehicle panel alignment process, comprising: providing an alignment fixture for receiving a vehicle panel; said alignment fixture including a rear support/stop, a bottom support/stop, and a position stop; locating a robot to move said panel between a temporary storage position, said alignment fixture, and a vehicle to which said panel is to be installed; once deposited to said alignment fixture by said robot, using said robot to subsequently move said panel against said supports/stops and said position stop of said alignment fixture, thereby defining the orientation/position of said panel in three directions when said panel is initially placed on said alignment fixture; and using said robot to move said panel from said alignment fixture to said vehicle. 30. The process of claim 29 further comprising a pushing element attached to said robot and adapted to allow said robot to move said panel against said position stop of said alignment fixture. 