A multi-part tool assembly for harvesting and implanting follicular units, comprising an outer cannula having an open, tissue-piercing distal end, and an inner cannula coaxially positioned in a lumen of the first cannula, the second cannula having an open, tissue-coring distal end sized to engage and retain single hair follicular units. An obturator may be positioned in the lumen of the second cannula, wherein at least one of the first cannula, second cannula, and obturator are movable relative to the other ones.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for harvesting and implanting hair follicular units, comprising: an outer implanting cannula having an interior lumen and an open, tissue-piercing distal end configured for implanting a follicular unit into an implant region; and an inner harvesting cannula positioned coaxially in the implanting cannula lumen, the inner harvesting cannula having an open, tissue-coring distal end and an interior lumen sized to engage and retain a follicular unit, wherein the harvesting and implanting cannulas are moveable relative to each other in a reciprocating relationship, and wherein when harvesting hair follicular units, the distal end of the implanting cannula is located proximal to the distal end of the harvesting cannula. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an obturator coaxially positioned in the lumen of the harvesting cannula and independently movable relative to one or both of implanting and harvesting cannulas. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is selected from the group comprising a hand-held device, a substantially automated device, and a device configured to be maneuverable by a robotic system. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising one or more of a mechanical system, electromechanical system, pneumatic system, hydraulic system and magnetic system for effecting controlled movement of the harvesting and implanting cannulas relative to each other. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a motor drive assembly configured for operatively coupling with the implanting and harvesting cannulas for providing automated translational movement of at least one of the implanting and harvesting cannulas relative to the other. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, the motor drive assembly further configured for providing rotational movement of the harvesting cannula about its longitudinal axis. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising a processor for controlling the motor drive assembly for determining a relative position of the implanting and harvesting cannulas. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the processor controls the motor drive assembly based at least in part on image data received from one or more cameras. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a source of negative pressure in communication with the lumen of the harvesting cannula. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a force sensor, and wherein the processor is configured to stop a harvesting or an implanting process if a force sensed by the force sensor exceeds a prescribed limit. 11. An apparatus for harvesting and implanting follicular units, comprising: an outer implanting cannula having an open, tissue-piercing distal end and an interior lumen; a harvesting cannula positioned in the interior lumen of the implanting cannula, the harvesting cannula having an open, tissue-coring distal end and an interior lumen respectively configured and sized to excise and retain a follicular unit; and an obturator positioned in the interior lumen of the harvesting cannula, wherein at least one of the implanting cannula, harvesting cannula, and obturator is movable relative to another one of the implanting cannula, harvesting cannula, and obturator, and wherein when harvesting hair follicular units, the distal end of the implanting cannula is located proximal to the distal end of the harvesting cannula. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the implanting cannula, harvesting cannula, and obturator are coaxially aligned along a common axis and independently movable relative to one another. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the harvesting cannula is rotatable about its axis. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the interior lumen of the harvesting cannula is at least partially texturized and sized for receiving a single follicular unit. 15. An apparatus for harvesting and implanting follicular units, comprising: an outer implanting cannula having an open, tissue-piercing distal end and an interior lumen; a harvesting cannula positioned in the interior lumen of the implanting cannula, the harvesting cannula having an open, tissue-coring distal end and an interior lumen respectively configured and sized to excise and retain a follicular unit; and an obturator positioned in the interior lumen of the harvesting cannula, wherein the implanting cannula, harvesting cannula, and obturator are coaxially aligned along a common axis and movable relative to one another, and wherein when harvesting hair follicular units, the distal end of the implanting cannula is located proximal to the distal end of the harvesting cannula. 