A cartridge magazine is shown for placement in a robotic media library. The magazine body has two walls to guide a tape cartridge into a final stopping position. A prong extends into the cartridge from a first wall and an opening is formed in the second wall to permit a friction pad to contact an opposing side of the cartridge. The friction pad is mounted onto a lever that rotates upon a pivot outside a cartridge chamber on the magazine body. The lever is pushed by a spring to ordinarily extend the friction pad well into vacant cartridge chambers. An operator pad of the lever may extend out of the magazine body for engagement by an operator or by door pressures to retract the friction pad so that the cartridge becomes either disengaged, or slightly engaged with the friction pad.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cartridge magazine for storing at least one cartridge comprising: a body having at least one shelf, a first wall and a second wall parallel to the first wall, the first wall positioned a selected width from the second wall that is sufficient to accommodate a cartridge, the second wall including a surface defining an opening, the first wall, second wall, and at least one shelf defining a chamber for the cartridge; a retention member movable with respect to the body operating such that the retention member extends a first portion through to a travel inhibit position, the retention member having a portion disposed outside the chamber operable to retract the first portion from the travel inhibit position; and a pivot point extending from the body and disposed outside the chamber, the first portion including a friction pad, the retention member comprising a lever rotatable mounted to the pivot point and having a spring member operating in which the lever extends the friction pad through the opening such that the portion disposed outside the chamber is operable to retract the friction pad from the opening. 2. The cartridge magazine of claim 1 further comprising: a handle connected by at least one joint to the second wall wherein the joint is substantially longitudinally displaced from the portion disposed outside the chamber. 3. The cartridge magazine of claim 1 further comprising: a third wall extending from the body, the third wall substantially longitudinal; a fourth wall extending from the body, the fourth wall parallel to the third wall, a cartridge width from the third wall, wherein the third wall and the fourth wall define a second chamber and the opening in the body is formed, in part, by the fourth wall such that the friction pad may extend through the opening into the second chamber. 4. The cartridge magazine of claim 3 further comprising: a first prong extending from the first wall; and a second prong extending from the third wall. 5. The cartridge magazine of claim 1 further comprising: a prong extending from the first wall. 6. The cartridge magazine of claim 1, wherein the spring member is a helical spring. 7. A cartridge magazine for storing at least one cartridge comprising: a body having a first wall and a second wall substantially parallel to the first wall, the first wall and the second wall defining a chamber for the cartridge; a pivot point attached to the body near the second wall and disposed outside the chamber; a lever biased to rotate about the pivot point, the lever having a friction pad biased to extend through an opening in the second wall, an operator pad extending from the body, and a spring member extending from the lever to the second wall. 8. The cartridge magazine of claim 7 further comprising: a prong extending from the first wall. 9. The cartridge magazine of claim 8, wherein the prong is biased toward the chamber. 10. The cartridge magazine of claim 7, wherein the spring member comprises a spring. 11. The cartridge magazine of claim 7 further comprising a third wall extending from the body and a fourth wall substantially parallel to the third wall, the third wall and the fourth wall defining a second chamber, wherein the friction pad is biased to extend into the chamber and the second chamber. 12. The cartridge magazine of claim 7, wherein a backside extends from the first wall to the second wall and the opening is near the backside, wherein the backside substantially blocks movement of a cartridge through the chamber beyond the backside. 13. The cartridge magazine of claim 12 wherein the friction pad presents a surface at a slight angle from the second wall such that a portion of the surface is less than a cartridge width from the first wall. 14. The cartridge magazine of claim 12 further comprising: a handle transverse from a cartridge travel, the handle having at least one end, wherein the operator pad is longitudinally displaced from the end. 15. The cartridge magazine of claim 10, wherein a backside extends from the first wall to the second wall, wherein the backside substantially blocks movement of a cartridge through the chamber beyond the backside. 