In a semiconductor fabrication facility, a conveyor transports substrate carriers. The substrate carriers are unloaded from the conveyor and loaded onto the conveyor without stopping the conveyor. A load and/or unload mechanism lifts the substrate carriers from the conveyor during unloading operations, while matching the horizontal speed of the conveyor. Similarly, during loading operations, the load/unload mechanism lowers a substrate carrier into engagement with the conveyor while matching the horizontal speed of the conveyor. Individual substrates, without carriers, may be similarly loaded and/or unloaded from a conveyor.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A substrate transport system comprising: a conveyor adapted to transport a substrate carrier; an unload mechanism adapted to unload the substrate carrier from the conveyor while the conveyor is moving the substrate carrier; and a controller coupled to the unload mechanism and adapted to raise the unload mechanism while substantially matching a velocity of the unload mechanism to a velocity at which the substrate carrier is transported by the conveyor, wherein the unload mechanism is adapted to move through a circular path. 2. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 1, wherein the circular path is defined in a vertical plane. 3. A substrate transport system comprising: a conveyor adapted to transport a substrate carrier; an unload mechanism adapted to unload the substrate carrier from the conveyor while the conveyor is moving the substrate carrier; and a controller coupled to the unload mechanism and adapted to raise the unload mechanism while substantially matching a velocity of the unload mechanism to a velocity at which the substrate carrier is transported by the conveyor, wherein the unload mechanism includes a four bar mechanism. 4. A method of operating a substrate carrier transport system, comprising: using a conveyor to move a substrate carrier; and while the substrate carrier is moving along the conveyor, unloading the substrate carrier from the conveyor; and moving the substrate carrier in a semi-circular path after the substrate carrier is disengaged from the conveyor. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the semi-circular path is defined in a vertical plane. 6. A method of operating a substrate carrier transport system, comprising: using a conveyor to move a substrate carrier; and while the substrate carrier is moving along the conveyor, unloading the substrate carrier from the conveyor to an unload mechanism; and moving the substrate carrier along a non-rotary path while unloading the substrate carrier from the conveyor wherein during unloading the unload mechanism is raised. 7. A substrate carrier transport system comprising: a conveyor adapted to transport a substrate carrier; a load mechanism adapted to load the substrate carrier onto the conveyor while the conveyor is moving; and an unload mechanism adapted to unload the substrate carrier from the conveyor while the substrate carrier is moving along the conveyor wherein the load mechanism and the unload mechanism each include an end effector adapted to raise the substrate carrier relative to the conveyor. 8. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 7, wherein the load mechanism and the unload mechanism are adapted to substantially match velocity between the substrate carrier and the conveyor, and between the substrate carrier and the unload mechanism, respectively, at the time of contact. 9. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 8, wherein: during loading, the substrate carrier contacts the conveyor with substantially zero acceleration or less; and during unloading, the unload mechanism contacts the substrate carrier with substantially zero acceleration or less. 10. A substrate carrier transport system comprising: a conveyor adapted to transport a substrate carrier; a load mechanism adapted to load the substrate carrier onto the conveyor while the conveyor is moving; an unload mechanism adapted to unload the substrate carrier from the conveyor while the substrate carrier is moving along the conveyor; and a controller coupled to the unload mechanism and adapted to raise the unload mechanism while substantially matching a velocity of the unload mechanism to a velocity at which the substrate carrier is transported by the conveyor. 11. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 10 wherein the controller is further adapted to cause the unload mechanism to contact the substrate carrier with substantially zero velocity or zero velocity in a vertical direction as the substrate carrier is transported by the conveyor. 12. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 11, wherein the conveyor includes a plurality of suspension assemblies, each suspension assembly adapted to suspend a respective substrate carrier from the conveyor. 13. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 12, wherein the unload mechanism is adapted to disengage the substrate carrier from one of the suspension assemblies as the unload mechanism is raised. 14. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 7, wherein the substrate carrier is a single substrate carrier. 15. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 7, wherein the unload mechanism is also adapted to load a substrate carrier onto the conveyor as the conveyor is moving. 16. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 8, wherein the unload mechanism is adapted to move in a nonrotary path. 17. A substrate loading station comprising: a load port from which a substrate may be loaded to or from a processing tool; a load/unload mechanism for loading or unloading substrate carriers to or from a factory transport mechanism, the load/unload mechanism being adapted so as to substantially match a velocity of a substrate carrier moving along the factory transport mechanism when the load/unload mechanism initially contacts the substrate carrier; and an apparatus for transporting a substrate carrier between the load/unload mechanism and the load port, wherein the load/unload mechanism comprises a rotatable member. 18. The substrate loading station of claim 17, wherein the load/unload mechanism is adapted to load/unload substrate carriers to/from a factory transport mechanism that includes a plurality of suspension assemblies, each suspension assembly adapted to suspend a respective substrate carrier from a conveyor. 19. The substrate loading station of claim 18, wherein the load/unload mechanism is adapted to disengage the substrate carrier from one of the suspension assemblies as the load/unload mechanism is raised. 20. The substrate loading station of claim 17, wherein the substrate carrier is a single substrate carrier. 