An intermediate module comprising a dimensionally stable mounting module and a first device attached to the dimensionally stable mounting module. The dimensionally stable mounting module can include a front docking unit with front alignment elements for connecting the mounting module to a load/unload module, and a rear docking unit with rear alignment elements for connecting the mounting module to a main processing unit. The mounting module can further include a deck between the front docking unit and the rear docking unit, positioning elements at the deck, and attachment elements at the deck. The first device can be a processing chamber, an annealing station, a metrology station, a buffer station, or another type of component for holding or otherwise performing a function on a workpiece. The first device has a device interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements and a device fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements so that the first device is positioned precisely at a known location in a fixed reference frame defined by the mounting module.
Claims We claim: 1. An integrated tool assembly for processing of microfeature workpieces, comprising: a load/unload module having first and second workpiece carriers and a first docking unit with first alignment elements; an intermediate module including (a) a dimensionally stable first mounting module defining a fixed first reference frame and having a front docking unit with front alignment elements engaged with the first alignment elements of the load/unload module for registering the load/unload module with the first reference frame of the first mounting module, a rear docking unit with rear alignment elements, a first deck between the front docking unit and the rear docking unit, positioning elements at the first deck, and attachment elements at the first deck, and (b) a first device attached to the first deck for performing a function on a microfeature workpiece, the first device having a device interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements at the first deck and a device fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements at the first deck; and a main processing unit including (a) a second dimensionally stable mounting module defining a fixed second reference frame and having a second docking unit with second alignment elements engaged with the rear alignment elements of the rear docking unit for registering the first reference frame with the second reference frame, and also including positioning elements, and attachment elements; (b) a wet chemical processing chamber carried by the second mounting module and having a chamber interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements of the second mounting module and a chamber fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements of the second mounting module; and (c) a transport system carried by the second mounting module, the transport system having a transport interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements of the second mounting module and a transport fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements of the second mounting module. 2. The integrated tool assembly of claim 1 wherein the first mounting module further comprises a platform having positioning elements and attachment elements, and wherein the intermediate module further comprises (a) a track extending along the platform laterally in a width-wise direction of the tool assembly and having track interface members engaged with positioning elements at the platform and track fasteners engaged with attachment elements at the platform, and (b) a robot carried by the track to move linearly along the track. 3. The integrated tool assembly of claim 1 wherein: the first mounting module further comprises a first platform having positioning elements and attachment elements, and wherein the intermediate module further comprises (a) a first track extending along the first platform laterally in a width-wise direction of the tool assembly and having track interface members engaged with positioning elements at the first platform and track fasteners engaged with attachment elements at the first platform, and (b) a first robot carried by the first track to move linearly along the second track; and the second mounting module further comprises a second platform having positioning elements and attachment elements, and wherein the transport system of the main processing unit comprises (a) a second track extending longitudinally in a depth-wise direction of the tool assembly and having track interface members engaged with positioning elements at the second platform and track fasteners engaged with attachment elements at the second platform, and (b) a second robot carried by the second track to move linearly along the second track. 4. The integrated tool assembly of claim 3, further comprising a second device attached to the first deck for performing a function on a microfeature workpiece, the second device having a device interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements at the first deck and a device fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements at the first deck so that the second device is also precisely positioned in the first reference frame defined by the first mounting module. 5. The integrated tool assembly of claim 4 wherein: the first device comprises a buffer mounted to one side of the first deck, the buffer having a plurality of workpiece support sites for supporting individual workpieces, a buffer interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements at the first deck, and a buffer fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements at the first deck; and the second device comprises an annealing station mounted to another side of the first deck, the annealing station having an annealing interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements at the first deck, and an annealing fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements at the first deck. 6. The integrated tool assembly of claim 4 wherein: the first device comprises a buffer mounted to one side of the first deck, the buffer having a plurality of workpiece support sites for supporting individual workpieces, a buffer interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements at the first deck, and a buffer fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements at the first deck; and the second device comprises a metrology station mounted to another side of the first deck, the metrology station having a metrology interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements at the first deck, and a metrology fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements at the first deck. 7. The integrated tool assembly claim 1 wherein the first mounting module further comprises a first platform extending between the first device and a second device, and wherein the intermediate module further comprises (a) a first track extending along the first platform in a depth-wise direction of the tool assembly between the first and second devices and the first track having track interface members engaged with positioning elements at the first platform and track fasteners engaged with attachment elements at the first platform, and (b) a first robot carried by the first track to move linearly between the first and second devices. 8. The integrated tool assembly of claim 7 wherein the second mounting module further comprises a second platform having positioning elements and attachment elements, and wherein the transport system of the main processing unit comprises (a) a second track extending longitudinally in a depth-wise direction of the tool assembly and having track interface members engage with positioning elements at the second platform and track fasteners engaged with attachment elements at the second platform, and (b) a second robot carried by the second track to move linearly along the second track. 9. The integrated tool assembly of claim 8, wherein: the first device comprises a buffer mounted to one side of the first deck, the buffer having a plurality of workpiece support sites for supporting individual workpieces, a buffer interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements at the first deck, and a buffer fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements at the first deck; and the second device comprises an annealing station mounted to another side of the first deck, the annealing station having an annealing interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements at the first deck, and an annealing fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements at the first deck. 10. The integrated tool assembly of claim 8 wherein: the first device comprises a buffer mounted to one side of the first deck, the buffer having a plurality of workpiece support sites for supporting individual workpieces, a buffer interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements at the first deck, and a buffer fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements at the first deck; and the second device comprises a metrology station mounted to another side of the first deck, the metrology station having a metrology interface member engaged with one of the positioning elements at the first deck, and a metrology fastener engaged with one of the attachment elements at the first deck. 11. The integrated tool assembly of claim 1 wherein the first deck further comprises a first rigid panel, a second rigid panel juxtaposed under the first rigid panel, and braces between the first and second panels, and wherein the first and second panels are fixedly attached to the braces. 12. The integrated tool assembly of claim 11 wherein the braces comprise joists having through holes, and wherein the deck further comprises bolts in the through holes that compress the joists between the first and second rigid panels. 13. The integrated tool assembly of claim 1, wherein the intermediate module further comprising comprises a robot having a rotatable waist member, an arm fixedly attached to the waist member, a first end-effector attached directly to the arm without an intervening rotatable link between the arm and the first end-effector, and a second end-effector carried by the arm, wherein the first and second end-effectors coaxially rotate about a common axis. 14. An integrated tool assembly for processing of microfeature workpieces, comprising: a load/unload module having first alignment elements; an intermediate module having front alignment elements engaged with the first alignment elements to register the load/unload module with the intermediate module, a first robot carried by a first track to move linearly in a width-wise direction of the tool assembly, a first device fixed relative to the first track for performing a function on a microfeature workpiece, and rear alignment elements; and a main processing unit having second alignment elements engaged with the rear alignment elements of the intermediate module to register the intermediate module with the main processing unit, a second robot carried by a second track to move linearly along the second track, and a wet chemical processing chamber fixed relative to the second track. 15. The integrated tool assembly of claim 14 wherein the intermediate module further comprises a second device fixed relative to the first track, and the main processing unit further comprises a plurality of wet chemical chambers fixed relative to the second track. 16. The integrated tool assembly of claim 15 wherein the first device comprises a buffer and the second device comprises an annealing station. 17. The integrated tool assembly of claim 15 wherein the first device comprises a buffer and the second device comprises a metrology station. 18. The integrated tool assembly of claim 15 wherein the first and second devices comprises additional wet chemical processing stations. 19. The integrated tool assembly of claim 15 wherein: the first device comprises a buffer; the second device comprises an annealing station; and the wet chemical processing station comprises an electrochemical deposition chamber. 20. The integrated tool assembly of claim 14 wherein the main processing unit further comprises a plurality of wet chemical processing chambers configured to electrochemically deposit material onto workpieces. 21. The integrated tool assembly of claim 14 wherein the main processing unit further comprises a plurality of wet chemical processing chambers configured to clean surfaces of workpieces. 