A printhead system is provided having at least one printhead module and at least one controller. The printhead module(s) has at least two print nozzle integrated circuits, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the print nozzle integrated circuits, and a plurality of electrical connectors individually connected to a respective one of the print nozzle integrated circuits. The controller(s) is arranged to control the printing operation of at least one of the print nozzle integrated circuits. Each electrical connector simultaneously connects a power supply to the controller and the controller to the respective print nozzle integrated circuit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead system, comprising: at least one printhead module having at least two print nozzle integrated circuits, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the print nozzle integrated circuits, and a plurality of electrical connectors individually connected to a respective one of the print nozzle integrated circuits; and at least one controller arranged to control the printing operation of at least one of the print nozzle integrated circuits, wherein each electrical connector simultaneously connects a power supply to the controller and the controller to the respective print nozzle integrated circuit. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the electrical connectors each comprise a flexible printed circuit board connected to respective ones of the print nozzle integrated circuits. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein the controller is provided on a printed circuit board carrying respective connection ports which are directly aligned with and connected to the respective flexible printed circuit boards and print nozzle integrated circuits. 4. A printhead system according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors arranged to provide the power from the power supply to the electrical connectors. 5. A printhead system according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two print nozzle integrated circuits, the support member, the at least two electrical connectors, and at least one fluid distribution member mounting the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 