A cable handling system mounted to a mobile robot to dispense and retrieve cable at zero tension includes a cable reel drive and a downstream tension roller drive that includes an idler. As a cable passes through the tension roller drive, position along the length of the cable and/or the cable speed is monitored accurately by a sensor attached to the idler. A system controller in communication with the sensor controls the cable reel drive and the tension roller drive for dispensing and retrieving cable downstream of the tension roller drive.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cable handling system comprising: a cable reel drive; a downstream tension roller drive comprising an idler; an idler sensor for monitoring a movement of the idler, the idler sensor determining at least one of a position along a length of cable and a cable speed; and a system controller in communication with the sensor for controlling the cable reel drive and the tension roller drive for dispensing and retrieving cable downstream of the tension roller drive at substantially zero tension. 2. The cable handling system of claim 1, wherein the cable reel drive comprises a motor and a sensor for determining rotation of the cable reel drive. 3. The cable handling system of claim 2, wherein the tension roller drive further comprises a motor and a sensor for determining rotation of the tension roller drive. 4. The cable handling system of claim 3, wherein the system controller comprises a cable state estimator for receiving signals from the idler sensor, the cable reel drive sensor, and the tension roller drive sensor. 5. The cable handling system of claim 3, wherein at least one of a cable reel drive and a tension roller drive further comprises at least one dynamic thermal limiter for monitoring at least one of a motor current and a motor case temperature. 6. The cable handling system of claim 1, further comprising a level wind mechanism located between the cable reel drive and the tension roller drive. 7. The cable handling system of claim 1, wherein the system controller comprises a cable reel drive velocity controller. 8. The cable handling system of claim 1, wherein the system controller comprises a tension roller drive torque controller. 9. The cable handling system of claim 1, wherein the system controller comprises a feed forward compensator for providing a torque command to the cable reel drive velocity controller. 10. The cable handling system of claim 1, wherein the system controller comprises a cable gain scheduler for providing a compensating command to at least one of the cable reel drive and the tension roller drive, wherein the compensating command compensates for a change in mass of a cable spool as the cable is dispensed and retrieved. 11. A control system for a cable handling system comprising: a cable reel drive controller; a tension roller drive controller; an idler sensor for monitoring a movement of an idler, the idler sensor determining at least one of a position along a length of cable and a cable velocity; and a system controller for providing commands to the cable reel drive controller and commands to the tension roller drive controller, the commands based at least in part on a signal from the idler sensor, whereby a cable is dispensed and retrieved from the cable handling system at substantially zero tension. 