Apparatus, systems, and methods for inspecting a structure are provided which use a sensor holder, which is configured to support one or more curved linear inspection sensors and may be constructed from rapid prototyping, such as stereolithography. Integrated curved linear ultrasonic transducer inspection apparatus, systems, and methods provide fast and efficient methods of constructing custom inspection devices and inspecting otherwise difficult-to-inspect curved radius features of structures, such as a corner of a hat stringer.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A non-destructive inspection apparatus for inspecting a structure, comprising: a first curved linear inspection sensor; and a sensor holder defining a first recess for supporting and orienting the first curved linear inspection sensor, wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least a first portion of the structure, wherein the first portion of the structure comprises at least a first curved structural feature, and wherein the first recess is configured to orient the first curved linear inspection sensor to inspect the first curved structural feature. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor holder is configured for inspecting and traveling over at least a portion of a hat stringer, and wherein the first curved structural feature is a curved corner between a web side and a top cap of the hat stringer. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the sensor holder is configured for spanning the width of the top cap of the hat stringer and both curved corners along the top cap adjacent the web sides of the hat stringer such that the sensor holder straddles the upper radius of the hat stringer. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor holder further defines a handle for manual inspection of a structure. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor holder comprises an adjustable portion adapted to relocate to perform at least one of sizing the first recess and defining a position of a concave corner of the sensor holder. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the adjustable portion comprises an adjustable corner portion adapted to relocate to perform at least defining a position of a concave corner of the sensor holder. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the sensor holder further comprises an alignment member adapted to control relocation of the adjustable portion. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the alignment member is an alignment screw adapted to control relocation of the adjustable portion by rotating the alignment screw. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one removable and adjustable transducer support capable of securing the curved linear inspection sensor in the first recess. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second curved linear inspection sensor, wherein the sensor holder is further configured to define a second recess, wherein the first portion of the structure comprises a second curved structural feature, and wherein the second recess is configured to support and orient the second curved linear inspection sensor to inspect the second curved structural feature while the sensor holder travels over the first portion of the structure. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the first and second curved structural features are curved corners along a top cap of a hat stringer and the first portion of the structure comprises an upper radius portion of the hat stringer. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second linear inspection sensor, wherein the sensor holder is further configured to define a second recess, wherein the first portion of the structure comprises a first planar structural feature, and wherein the second recess is configured to support and orient the second linear inspection sensor to inspect the first planar structural feature while the sensor holder travels over the first portion of the structure. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the first planar structural feature is selected from the group of a web side and a top cap of a hat stringer. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a fluid manifold and a fluid inlet port connected to the fluid manifold, wherein the fluid inlet port is configured for injecting a fluid into the fluid manifold, and wherein the sensor holder is further configured for permitting the dispersion of fluid from the fluid manifold between the at least one recess and the structure. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the sensor holder is further configured to define the fluid manifold. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the fluid manifold is configured for permitting the dispersion of fluid from the fluid manifold between the first curved linear inspection sensor and the structure. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an encoder configured for measuring at least one of the following characteristics of the inspection apparatus with respect to the structure under inspection: position, speed, direction, and velocity. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a motion device capable of moving the sensor holder over at least the first portion of the structure, wherein the first curved structural feature has a length perpendicular to the curve of the first curved structural feature and a width parallel to the curve of the first curved structural feature, wherein the first curved linear inspection sensor has an end-to-end orientation associated with the width of the first curved structural feature, and wherein the motion device is configured for moving the sensor holder over the structure along an axis perpendicular to the end-to-end orientation of the first curved linear inspection sensor such that the first curved linear inspection sensor moves over the structure for inspection of at least a portion of the length of the first curved structural feature. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the motion device comprises a motor with an attached wheel. 20. A method of non-destructively inspecting a first curved structural feature of a structure, the method comprising the steps of: providing a first curved linear inspection sensor adapted for inspection of the first curved structural feature, wherein the first curved structural feature has a length perpendicular to the curve of the first curved structural feature and a width parallel to the curve of the first curved structural feature, and wherein the first curved linear inspection sensor has an end-to-end orientation associated with the width of the first curved structural feature; supporting and orienting the first curved linear inspection sensor in a first recess defined by a sensor holder, wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least a first portion of the structure, wherein the first portion of the structure comprises the first curved structural feature, and wherein the first recess is configured to orient the first curved linear inspection sensor to inspect the first curved structural feature; and translating the first curved linear inspection sensor and sensor holder over the structure along a first axis perpendicular to the end-to-end orientation of the first curved linear inspection sensor such that the first curved linear inspection sensor moves over the structure for inspection of at least a portion of the length of the first curved structural feature. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the structure is a hat stringer, the first curved structural feature is a radius between a first web side and the top cap of the hat stringer, wherein the hat stringer has a second curved structural feature with a length perpendicular to the curve of the first curved structural feature and a width parallel to the curve of the first curved structural feature, wherein the second curved structural feature is the radius between a second web side and the top cap of the hat stringer, wherein the first curved linear inspection sensor has an end-to-end orientation associated with the width of the second curved structural feature, and the method further comprises the step of translating the first curved linear inspection sensor and sensor holder over the structure along a second axis parallel to the first access and perpendicular to the end-to-end orientation of the second curved linear inspection sensor such that the first curved linear inspection sensor moves over the structure for inspection of at least a portion of the length of the second curved structural feature. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein the sensor holder comprises a fluid manifold and a fluid inlet port connected to the fluid manifold, wherein the fluid inlet port is configured for injecting a fluid into the fluid manifold, and wherein the sensor holder is further configured for permitting the dispersion of fluid from the fluid manifold between the at least one recess and the structure, and the method further comprises the steps of: injecting a fluid into the fluid manifold; and dispersing the fluid from the fluid manifold between the at least one recess and the structure. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein the sensor holder comprises an adjustable portion adapted to relocate to perform at least one of sizing the first recess and defining a position of a concave corner of the sensor holder, and the method further comprises the step of relocating the adjustable portion. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the step of relocating the adjustable portion comprises sizing the first recess. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the step of relocating the adjustable portion comprises defining a position of a concave corner of the sensor holder. 26. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of measuring at least one of the following characteristics of the inspection sensor with respect to the structure under inspection: position, speed, direction, and velocity. 