A camera alignment system that can enable alignment in at least one of three planes and about an axis of at least one of the planes. An alignment mount can mate to a camera and lens. The alignment mount can comprise a mechanism to adjust the camera relative to the lens to that an image plane of the camera aligns with an image plane of the lens in a predetermined orientation. One predetermined orientation can be that the image plane of the camera being parallel to the image plane of the lens.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of aligning a sequence detection system comprising: providing a light source in the expected location of a well of a high density well plate; providing a collection camera defining a camera image plane, said collection camera being mounted to a camera mounting plate, said collection camera operable to detect said light source; providing a lens having an optical assembly defining a lens image plane, said lens being mounted to a base plate; actuating a planarity adjustment mechanism operably coupled to at least one of said camera mounting plate and said base plate to rotate an axis normal to said camera image plane relative to an axis normal to said lens image plane; and actuating a concentricity adjustment mechanism operably coupled to one of said camera mounting plate and said base plate to translate an axis normal to said camera image plane with respect to an axis normal to said lens image plane. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: biasing said camera mounting plate relative to said base plate using a biasing force. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein said actuating a planarity adjustment mechanism comprises: rotating a setscrew to adjust the position of said camera mounting plate relative to said base plate. 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein said rotating a setscrew comprises rotating a ball-end setscrew. 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein said actuating a planarity adjustment mechanism comprises: individually rotating a plurality of setscrews positioned radially about at least one of said collection camera and said lens to adjust the position of said camera mounting plate relative to said base plate. 6. The method according to claim 2 wherein said actuating a planarity adjustment mechanism comprises: actuating at least one of a cam, motorized screw, fluid-containing bag, and inclined plane to adjust the position of said camera mounting plate relative to said base plate. 7. The method according to claim 1 wherein said actuating a concentricity adjustment mechanism comprises: rotating a setscrew to apply a force along a plane generally parallel to at least one of said camera image plane and said lens image plane. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein said rotating a setscrew comprises rotating a ball-end setscrew. 9. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: biasing said camera mounting plate toward said base plate using a biasing force. 10. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: biasing said camera mounting plate away from said base plate using a biasing force. 11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: providing a gasket between said camera mounting plate and said base plate. 12. A method of aligning a sequence detection system comprising: providing a light source in the expected location of a well of a high density well plate; providing a collection camera defining a camera image plane, said collection camera being mounted to a camera mounting plate, said collection camera operable to detect said light source; providing a lens having an optical assembly defining a lens image plane, said lens being mounted to a base plate; and actuating a concentricity adjustment mechanism operably coupled to one of said camera mounting plate and said base plate to translate an axis normal to said camera image plane with respect to an axis normal to said lens image plane. 