The system for the automatically tuning of multicavity filters of high frequency signals, by means of screws sticking out from the lid of the plate incorporating said cavities, comprises a robotized movement imparting subsystem SUB-1A, a measuring subsystem SUB-2M for the extraction of the transfer characteristic, a subsystem SUB-3C to compare said measured values to reference parameters, a subsystem SUB-4G for the generation of said reference parameters, and a subsystem SUB-5CO enslaved to said SUB-4G and SUB-1.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system to automatically tune multicavity filters of high frequency (HF) signals, comprising: at least one filter body with a plate which includes said cavities and is crossed by metallic tuning screws having heads sticking out of said plate and stems penetrating into one of said cavities, said system including: at least one arm for coupling and moving said tuning screws to adjust the resonant frequency of each corresponding cavity; a subsystem (SUB-1A) of driving and robotized movement of said screws as well for the regulation of the entity of their penetration inside the cavity, consisting of at least one frictioning device (MF-1) and at least one fine tuning regulation device (MRS-2); a measuring subsystem (SUB-2MI) for the real time measurement of scatter parameters S1, S2 . . . Si, . . . SN (N being the number of tuning screws), the measuring subsystem comprising a VNA (Vectorial Network Analyzer), adapted to measure the real-time frequency response of an under-test filter (DUT); a subsystem SUB-3C for comparing the values S1, S2 . . . Si, . . . SN measured by SUB-2MI with parameters of reference Sri generated by a reference parameter-generating subsystem SUB-4G; and a subsystem (SUB-5) comprising a controller (CONT) enslaved to SUB-4G for controlling the means included in SUB-1A and SUB-5, wherein the subsystem SUB-3C compares the real-time frequency response from SUB-2MI with a reference frequency response recorded in a non-volatile memory of SUB-4G and feeds the results of the comparison as MSE (Mean Square Errors) to the controller (CONT) of SUB-5. 2. The system according to claim 1, in which the robotized subsystem (SUB-1A) includes two coaxial arms. 3. The system according to claim 1, in which the subsystem SUB-5 receives said MSE and controls the subsystems SUB-1A and SUB-4G. 4. The system according to claim 1, in which the subsystem SUB-4G includes a reference parameter generator (6) and an algorithm generator (5). 5. The system according to claim 4, in which said reference parameter generator (6) includes at least: a measurement tool for measuring reference parameters Sr1, Sr2 . . . Sr . . . SrN from a perfectly-tuned reference unit; and a storage device for storing the measured reference parameters Sr1, Sr2 . . . Sri . . . SrN. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one frictioning device is a screw driver. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein a single arm is used to couple and move all of said tuning screws. 8. A system to automatically tune multicavity filters of high frequency (HF) signals, comprising: at least one filter body with a plate which includes said cavities and is crossed by metallic tuning screws having heads sticking out of said plate and stems penetrating into one of said cavities, said system including: at least one arm for coupling and moving said tuning screws to adjust the resonant frequency of each corresponding cavity; a subsystem (SUB-1A) of driving and robotized movement of said screws as well for the regulation of the entity of their penetration inside the cavity, consisting of at least one frictioning device (MF-1) and at least one fine tuning regulation device (MRS-2); a measuring subsystem (SUB-2MI) for the real time measurement of scatter parameters S1, S2 . . . Si, . . . SN (N being the number of tuning screws); a subsystem SUB-3C for comparing the values S1, S2 . . . Si, . . . SN measured by SUB-2MI with parameters of reference Sri generated by a reference parameter-generating subsystem SUB-4G, the reference parameter-generating subsystem SUB-4G comprising a reference parameter generator (6) and an algorithm generator (5) comprising a processor for loading the scatter parameters S1, S2 . . . Si . . . SN measured by SUB-2MI and determining a difference (.delta..sub..epsilon.) between a current measurement of one of said scatter parameters (.epsilon.1) and a prior measurement of one of said scatter parameters (.epsilon.0) while a corresponding tuning screw is being inserted, wherein when .delta..sub..epsilon.is less than 0 the tuning screw is inserted and when .delta..sub..epsilon.is less than a threshold (lim .epsilon.), insertion of the corresponding tuning screw is stopped; and a subsystem (SUB-5) comprising a controller (CONT) enslaved to SUB-4G for controlling the means included in SUB-1A and SUB-5. 