The invention is an apparatus for physically exchanging a force with a user in an environment local to the user. A connection element connects to a user's body member and a linkage between the connection element and ground. The linkage includes means for powering at least three independent freedoms of the connection element relative to ground and means for maintaining at least one independent freedom of the connection element relative to ground free of power. Up to three independent freedoms of the connection element may be maintained free of power, and up to five independent freedoms may be powered. Other aspects of the invention include a two actuator counter-balance for controlling a point on a link. The invention also includes apparatus for establishing a virtual, switch, which presents to the user the force and displacement relationship of a spring switch. Another embodiment is a virtual bristled brush, again which presents to the user the force and displacement relationship of such a brush, while also changing the virtual environment to reflect the user's changes in location.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for physically exchanging a force with a user in a user-local environment, the apparatus comprising: at least two user connection elements configured to provide relative movement therebetween to simulate a grasping motion; and a means of providing force feedback to at least one of the two user connection elements. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one linkage physically linking the at least two user connection elements to at least one reference. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the at least one linkage provides at least six independent degrees of freedom to the at least two connection elements. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising separate linkages for the at least two user connection elements. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the linkages include at least one actuator configured to apply force feedback. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the linkages include at least one sensor configured for position feedback. 7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the linkages comprise three force feedback actuated degrees of freedom. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the linkages further comprise three unpowered degrees of freedom. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one user connection element comprises a user interface selected from the group consisting of a thimble, a stylus, a mouse, a joystick, a foot attachment element, and a sensory aid. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each user connection element connects to a quarter-gimbal end assembly. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a first user connection element is configured for manipulation by a user's thumb, and a second user connection element is configured for manipulation by a user's finger. 12. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the at least one linkage further comprises at least two linked orthogonal bearings. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a third user connection element. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a linkage associated with the third user connection element, wherein the third linkage links the third user connection element to the at least one reference. 15. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the linkages are connected to a common reference. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the common reference is a fixed ground. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the common reference is a portion of a user's body. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the relative movement of said user connection elements are with respect to a common reference. 19. A method for physically exchanging a force between an apparatus and a user in a user-local environment, the method comprising the steps of: providing an apparatus comprising at least two user connection elements configured to provide relative movement therebetween to simulate a grasping motion; connecting said at least two user connection elements to at least one body member of a user; and providing a means of providing force feedback to at least one of the two user connection elements. 