A slitting mechanism for a roll media printer is provided. The slitting mechanism has a rotatable carousel of rotatable slitting shafts which extend across the width of a media web arranged to pass the slitting shafts along a path. Each slitting shaft has at least one slitter misaligned with at least one of the slitters of the other slitting shafts. Each slitter has a cutting edge. The slitting mechanism is selectively movable and the carousel is selectively rotatable to a plurality of cutting positions within the path. Each cutting position results in a different width of roll media being output from the printer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A slitting mechanism for a roll media printer, the slitting mechanism comprising: a rotatable carousel of rotatable slitting shafts which extend across the width of a media web arranged to pass one of the slitting shafts along a path, each slitting shaft having at least one slitter misaligned with at least one of the slitters of other slitting shafts, each slitter having a cutting edge; a guide roller arranged to guide the media web past one of the slitting shafts, the guide roller having a plurality of grooves arranged so that respective grooves correspond to the location of respective slitters of the slitting shafts; and a transverse cutter positioned along at least the width of the media web, the transverse cutter having a blade mounted eccentrically between a pair of cams, said cams being rotated in unison to cause a circular cutting stroke by said blade; wherein the carousel is selectively rotatable to a plurality of cutting positions within the path, each cutting position resulting in a different width of roll media being output from the slitting mechanism. 2. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 1, further comprising rotatable brackets between which the slitting shafts extend and a motor for driving rotation of at least one of the brackets. 3. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 1, further comprising transport rollers arranged to transport the media web past one of the slitting shafts and a motor for driving rotation of at least one of the transport rollers. 4. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 3, wherein the transport rollers incorporate a pair of entry rollers and a pair of exit rollers arranged at opposite sides of the carousel. 5. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 4, wherein the motor is arranged to drive rotation of one each of the entry and exit rollers. 6. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 5, wherein the one each of the entry and exit rollers are rotated by a belt around the one each of the entry and exit rollers and a rotating shaft associated with the motor. 