A method for calculating a process center for a chuck in a processing chamber is provided. The method includes generating pre-processing and post-processing measurement data points, which is perform by measuring thickness of a film substrate at a set of orientations and a set of distances from a geometric center of the substrate. The method also includes comparing the pre-processing and post-processing measurement data points to calculate a set of etch depth numbers. The method further includes generating etch profiles for the set of orientations. The method yet also includes extrapolating a set of radiuses, which is associated with a first etch depth, from the etch profiles. The method yet further includes generating an off-centered plot, which is a graphical representation of the set of radiuses versus the set of orientations. The method more over includes calculating the process center by applying a curve-fitting equation to the off-centered plot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calculating a process center for a chuck in a processing chamber, comprising: generating a set of pre-processing measurement data points including measuring thickness of a substrate having thereon a film before substrate processing, said measuring occurring at a set of orientations and at a set of distances from a geometric center of said substrate; generating a set of post-processing measurement data points including measuring thickness of said substrate after said substrate processing, said measuring occurring at least at said set of orientations and said set of distances from said geometric center of said substrate; comparing said set of pre-processing measurement data points with said set of post-processing measurement data points to calculate a set of etch depth numbers; generating a set of etch profiles for said set of orientations; extrapolating a set of radiuses from said set of etch profiles, said set of radiuses being associated with a first etch depth; generating an off-centered plot, said off-centered plot being a graphical representation of said set of radiuses versus said set of orientations; and calculating said process center by applying a curve-fitting equation to said off-centered plot. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said set of etch profiles representing a set of graphical representations of said set of etch depth numbers versus said set of distances from said geometric center of said substrate. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said set of etch profiles representing a set of graphical representations of a set of etch rate numbers versus said set of distances from said geometric center of said substrate, said set of etch rate number being created by dividing each of said set of etch depth numbers by a substrate process time. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said film is a refractive film. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said set of pre-processing measurement data points including at least 2 data points. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said set of pre-processing measurements data points including at least 100 data points. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said set of data points are employed to obtain both of said pre-processing measurements and post-processing measurements. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said set of pre-processing measurement data points and said set of post-processing measurement data points are generated using a scan pattern. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein a metrology tool is employed to generate said set of distances from said geometric center of said substrate. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said curve-fitting equation is a Fourier Series Equation from Fourier Transform. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said curve-fitting equation is a Least Square Fit on a sinusoid equation. 12. The method of claim 1 further including teaching a robot arm of said processing system coordinates of said process center. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said set of orientations including at least three orientations on said substrate. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said off-centered plot is a sinusoidal curve. 15. A computer-implemented method for calculating a process center for a chuck in a processing chamber, comprising: generating a set of pre-processing measurement data points including measuring thickness of a substrate having thereon a film before substrate processing, said measuring occurring at a set of orientations and at a set of distances from a geometric center of said substrate; generating a set of post-processing measurement data points including measuring thickness of said substrate after said substrate processing, said measuring occurring at least at said set of orientations and said set of distances from said geometric center of said substrate; comparing said set of pre-processing measurement data points with said set of post-processing measurement data points to calculate a set of etch depth numbers; generating a set of etch profiles for said set of orientations; extrapolating a set of radiuses from said set of etch profiles, said set of radiuses being associated with a first etch depth; generating an off-centered plot, said off-centered plot being a graphical representation of said set of radiuses versus said set of orientations; and calculating said process center by applying a curve-fitting equation to said off-centered plot. 16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15 wherein said set of etch profiles representing a set of graphical representations of said set of etch depth numbers versus said set of distances from said geometric center of said substrate. 17. The computer-implemented method of claim 15 wherein said film is a refractive film. 18. The computer-implemented method of claim 15 wherein said set of data points are employed to obtain both said pre-processing measurements and post-processing measurements. 19. The computer-implemented method of claim 15 wherein said curve-fitting equation is a Fourier Series Equation from Fourier Transform. 20. The computer-implemented method of claim 15 wherein said curve-fitting equation is a Least Square Fit on a sinusoid equation. 21. The computer-implemented method of claim 15 further including teaching a robot arm of said processing system coordinates of said process center. 22. The method of claim 15 wherein said off-centered plot is a sinusoidal curve. 