A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle comprises a chassis, a pair of right and left drive pulleys, a right and left planetary wheel, a right and left track, a right and left arm mechanism, and a right and left drive motor. The drive pulleys are rotatably attached to the chassis and each pair of drive pulleys is in the same plane. The planetary wheels are movable relative to the chassis such that each planetary wheel is in the same plane as its respective drive pulleys. The tracks extend around the pair of drive pulleys and the planetary wheel on the respective sides. The arm mechanisms connect the respective planetary wheel to the chassis. Each arm mechanism is rotatably attached to the chassis with a cam. The cam defines a motion path of one end of the arm whereby the motion of the planetary wheel provides a path for the planetary wheel such that the track path defined by the respective drive pulleys and the planetary wheel is a constant track length. The motors are each operably connected to the respective pair of drive pulleys for driving the track.
Claims What is claimed as the invention is: 1. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle comprising: a chassis; a pair of right drive pulleys and a pair of left drive pulleys rotatably attached to a right and left side of the chassis, respectively, each pair of right drive pulleys and left drive pulleys defining a right plane and left plane, respectively; a right and a left planetary wheel moveable relative to the chassis such that each of the right and left planetary wheels is in the same plane as the respective right and left planes of the pairs of right and left drive pulleys; a right and a left track belt, each belt extending around the pair of drive pulleys and the planetary wheel on the respective side of the chassis; a right and a left planetary wheel arm assembly operably connecting the respective planetary wheels to the respective sides of the chassis, each planetary wheel arm assembly including a cam attached to the chassis and defining a cam path, a cam follower movable along the cam path and having an end attached to the planetary wheel, and a crank rotatably attached to the chassis, the crank being attached to the cam follower such that the cam follower is moveable relative to the crank, whereby the planetary wheel moves along an elliptical path; a drive means for the right and left track belt; and a means for rotating the crank. 2. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 wherein the drive means includes a right drive motor and a left drive motor, each operably connected to the respective pair of right and left drive pulleys for driving the respective right and left track belts. 3. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 2 wherein the means for rotating the crank is a planetary motor operably connected to the right and left planetary wheels. 4. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 3 further including a right and left skid support for a bottom of the respective right and left track belts. 5. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 4 wherein each right and left skid support is compliant to impact. 6. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 5 wherein each pair of drive pulleys is compliant to impact. 7. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 wherein each planetary wheel arm assembly further includes a track tensioning mechanism. 8. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 7 wherein tensioning mechanism includes a tension follower, a guider and a spring attached therebetween whereby the spring biases the planetary wheel outwardly to tension the respective track belt. 9. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 8 wherein the right and left pairs of drive pulleys have diameters. 10. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 9 wherein the right and left planetary wheels have diameters that are the same as the diameters of the respective right and left pairs of drive pulleys. 11. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 10 wherein the elliptical paths of the right and left planetary wheels each have focal points at the pairs of right and left drive pulleys, respectively. 12. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 8 wherein the right and left planetary wheel arm assemblies are attached together with an arm main shaft such that movement of the arm main shaft moves the right and left planetary wheels in concert. 13. The variable configuration articulated tacked vehicle as claimed in claim 12 wherein the drive means is a right drive motor and a left drive motor each operably connected to the respective pair of right and left drive pulleys for driving the respective right and left track belts. 14. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 13 wherein the means for rotating the cranks includes a planetary motor operably connected to the right and left planetary wheels. 15. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 further including a right and left skid support for the bottom of the respective right and left track belts. 16. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 15 wherein each skid support is compliant to impact. 17. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 further including a robotic arm mounted on the chassis. 18. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 17 further including accessories attached thereto wherein the accessories are chosen from the group consisting of PTZ cameras, bio-chem sensors, x-ray equipment, disrupters; wireless equipment, standard sensors and combinations thereof. 19. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 wherein the means for rotating the crank includes a planetary motor operably attached to the right and left planetary wheel. 20. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 wherein the vehicle is operated remotely. 21. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 20 wherein the vehicle is invertable remotely without disturbing operation of the vehicle. 22. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 20 wherein the right and left planetary wheels are used to facilitate stair ascending and descending. 23. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 20 wherein the right and left planetary wheels are used to facilitate ditch crossing. 24. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 wherein each pair of drive pulleys is compliant to impact. 25. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 further including a remote control unit operably connected to the vehicle. 26. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 25 wherein the remote control unit is connected by way of radio frequency. 27. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 25 wherein the remote control unit includes an arm command that automatically moves a robotic arm attached to the chassis into a stowed position. 28. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 27 further includes another arm command that automatically moves the robotic arm into a predetermined location. 29. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 25 wherein the remote control unit includes a straight line chassis command that automatically moves the chassis in a straight line between a point A and a point B. 30. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 29 wherein the remote control unit includes circle chassis command that automatically moves the chassis in a circle of a selected radius. 31. The variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 30 further include a GPS system attached to the vehicle, wherein readings from the GPS system are used to correct the straight line chassis command and the circle chassis command. 