The present invention provides a magazine-based data cartridge library that, in one embodiment, comprises a plurality of shelves that are capable of holding a plurality of data cartridge magazines, one or more drives, a magazine transport for moving magazines within the cabinet, and a cartridge transport for moving data cartridges between a magazine and a drive.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A data cartridge library comprising: a frame; a shelf system, operatively attached to said frame, for supporting at least two cartridge magazines and comprising at least one shelf; a drive that is operatively attached to said frame; a magazine transport device, operatively attached to said frame, for moving a magazine comprised of a frame structure that defines a space for accommodating a plurality of data cartridges and an opening in the horizontal plane through which a data cartridge can be inserted/removed into/from the space in a vertical direction, and a partitioning structure that divides the space into a plurality of substantially parallel slots with each slot capable of accommodating a data cartridge, and when such a magazine is associated with the library, the magazine is oriented such that a data cartridge held within one of said plurality of slots is oriented such that the face of the data cartridge with the greatest surface area lies in a substantially vertical plane; and a cartridge transport device, operatively attached to said frame, for moving a data cartridge between a data cartridge magazine and said drive; wherein said magazine transport device is capable of moving a magazine to a site at which at least two of the plurality of substantially parallel slots of the magazine are exposed to said cartridge transport; wherein said cartridge transport comprises: a grasper for grasping a data cartridge and releasing a previously grasped data cartridge; and a grasper transport, located adjacent to said site, for horizontally displacing said grasper so that said grasper is able to insert/remove a data cartridge into/from each of the at least two of the plurality of substantially parallel slots of a magazine positioned at said site. 2. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said grasper transport comprises a lead screw. 3. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said grasper transport comprises a rack and pinion. 4. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said grasper transport comprises a pulley. 5. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said grasper transport comprises a rotary actuator. 6. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said grasper transport comprises a linear actuator. 7. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said grasper transport moves at least a portion of said grasper along a substantially horizontal and straight line; and said cartridge transport comprises means for rotating said grasper about a substantially horizontal axis that is substantially perpendicular to said straight line. 8. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said grasper transport moves at least a portion of said grasper along a substantially horizontal and straight line; and said cartridge transport comprises means for rotating said grasper about a substantially horizontal axis that is substantially parallel to said straight line. 9. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said grasper transport moves at least a portion of said grasper along a substantially horizontal and straight line; and said cartridge transport comprises means for rotating said grasper about a substantially vertical axis. 10. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said cartridge transport comprises: means for vertically moving at least a portion of said grasper towards and away from said site so that said grasper is capable of displacing a data cartridge within a substantially vertical plane. 11. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 10, wherein: said cartridge transport comprises: means for horizontally moving said grasper towards and away from said site so that said grasper is capable of displacing a data cartridge within a substantially vertical plane. 12. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said grasper comprises: a housing capable of accommodating a first data cartridge with a first height or a second data cartridge with a second height that is greater than the first height, with the height of a data cartridge being the distance between the two substantially parallel faces of the data cartridge that have the greatest surface area. 13. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said magazine transport device and said cartridge transport comprise an elevator. 14. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: means for reading a first label and a second label that are each potentially associated with a magazine when the magazine is associated with the library and that are each differently oriented to the other; wherein the first label is associated with a magazine and is located in a first plane; wherein the second label is associated with a data cartridge and located in a second plane that is different than said first plane. 15. A data cartridge library comprising: a frame; a shelf system, operatively attached to said frame, for supporting at least two cartridge magazines and comprising at least one shelf; a drive that is operatively attached to said frame; a magazine transport device, operatively attached to said frame, for moving a magazine comprised of a frame structure that defines a space for accommodating a plurality of data cartridges and an opening located in a horizontal plane through which a data cartridge can be inserted/removed into/from the space in a vertical direction, and a partitioning structure that divides the space into a plurality of substantially parallel slots with each slot capable of accommodating a data cartridge, and when such a magazine is associated with the library, the magazine is oriented such that a data cartridge held within one of said plurality of slots is oriented such that the face of the data cartridge with the greatest surface area lies in a substantially vertical plane; and a cartridge transport device, operatively attached to said frame, for moving a data cartridge between a data cartridge magazine and said drive; wherein said magazine transport device is capable of moving a magazine to a site at which at least one of the plurality of substantially parallel slots of the magazine are exposed to said cartridge transport; wherein said cartridge transport comprises: a grasper for grasping a data cartridge and releasing a previously grasped data cartridge; and means for linearly moving at least a portion of said grasper relative to said site so that said grasper is capable of displacing a data cartridge within a substantially vertical plane. 16. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said means for linearly moving comprises means for vertically moving said grasper. 17. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said means for linearly moving comprises means for horizontally moving said grasper. 18. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said means for linearly moving comprises a lead screw. 19. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said means for linearly moving comprises a rack and pinion. 20. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said means for linearly moving comprises a pulley. 21. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said means for linearly moving comprises a rotary actuator. 22. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said means for linearly moving comprises a linear actuator. 23. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said cartridge transport comprises: a grasper transport, located adjacent to said site, for horizontally displacing said grasper so that said grasper is able to insert/remove a data cartridge into/from each of the at least two of the plurality of substantially parallel slot of a magazine positioned at said site. 24. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said cartridge transport comprises: means for rotating said grasper about a horizontal axis. 25. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said cartridge transport comprises: means for rotating said grasper about a vertical axis. 26. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said grasper comprises: a housing capable of accommodating a first data cartridge with a first height and a second data cartridge with a second height that is greater than the first height, with the height of a data cartridge being the distance between the two substantially parallel faces of the data cartridge that have the greatest surface area. 27. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said magazine transport device comprises: a magazine picker for moving a magazine to and from said shelf; and an elevator; said cartridge transport comprises said elevator. 28. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, further comprising: means for reading a first label and a second that are each potentially associated with a magazine when the magazine is associated with the library and that are each differently oriented to the other; wherein the first label is associated with a magazine and is located in a first plane; wherein the second label is associated with a data cartridge and located in a second plane that is different than said first plane. 29. A data cartridge library comprising: a frame; a shelf system, operatively attached to said frame, for supporting at least two cartridge magazines and comprising at least one shelf; a drive that is operatively attached to said frame; a magazine transport device, operatively attached to said frame, for moving a magazine; and a cartridge transport, operatively attached to said frame, for moving a data cartridge between a data cartridge magazine and said drive; wherein said cartridge transport comprises: a grasper for grasping a data cartridge from one of said at least two magazines and withdrawing said data cartridge from said cartridge magazines in a vertical direction and releasing a previously grasped data cartridge; and means for rotating said grasper about an axis. 30. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 29, wherein: said means for rotating comprises means for rotating said grasper about a horizontal axis. 31. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 29, wherein: said means for rotating comprises means for rotating said grasper about a vertical axis. 32. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 29, wherein: said means for rotating comprises means for rotating a data cartridge about an axis that is parallel to the face of the data cartridge with the greatest area. 33. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 29, wherein: said means for rotating comprises an electrical motor. 34. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 29, wherein: said cartridge transport comprises: a grasper transport for horizontally displacing said grasper so that said grasper is able to insert/remove a data cartridge into/from magazine. 35. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 29, wherein: said cartridge transport comprises: means for vertically moving said grasper so that said grasper is capable of displacing a data cartridge within a substantially vertical plane. 36. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 29, wherein: said cartridge transport comprises: means for horizontally moving said grasper so that said grasper is capable of displacing a data cartridge within a substantially vertical plane. 37. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 29, wherein: said grasper comprises: a housing capable of accommodating a first data cartridge with a first height and a second data cartridge with a second height that is greater than the first height, with the height of a data cartridge being the distance between the two substantially parallel faces of the data cartridge that have the greatest surface area. 38. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 29, wherein: said magazine transport device comprises: a cartridge magazine picker; and an elevator; wherein said cartridge transport comprises said elevator. 39. The data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 29, further comprising: means for reading a first label and a second that are each potentially associated with a magazine when the magazine is associated with the library and that are each differently oriented to the other; wherein the first label is associated with a magazine and is located in a first plane; wherein the second label is associated with a data cartridge and located in a second plane that is different than said first plane. 