A flexible conveyor carrier fixture that can be easily and quickly adjusted to allow for the transport of arts along the same conveyor. For example, a flexible conveyor carrier fixture that allows for the transport of dissimilar body panels along the same overhead conveyor. An exemplary conveyor carrier fixture includes a frame to which one or more cross-rails are attached. At least one of the cross-rails is moveable along the carrier frame to permit the repositioning thereof. At least one of the cross rails is preferably provided with a part support, such as a hanger. The position of the moveable cross-rail(s) can preferably be secured by a releasable retention mechanism. The repositionability of the cross-rail(s) allows the carrier fixture to support a greater number of dissimilar body panels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flexible conveyor carrier fixture for transporting parts along an overhead conveyor, comprising: a carrier frame adapted for attachment to said overhead conveyor; at least one moveable cross-rail extending across said carrier frame in a direction substantially transverse to the direction of travel of said overhead conveyor; at least one hanger associated with said at least one moveable cross-rail for supporting said parts in a suspended position therefrom; a linear guide means for directing movement of said at least one cross-rail back-and-forth along said carrier frame in a direction substantially parallel to the direction of travel of said overhead conveyor; and a cross-rail retention mechanism associated with said at least one moveable cross-rail, said cross-rail retention mechanism including a spring-biased clamping mechanism having a clamping body with a gear rack segment that engages a like gear rack attached to said carrier frame when in a normal position so as to secure said at least one moveable cross-rail to said carrier frame; wherein the position of said at least one moveable cross-rail along the length of said carrier frame can be adjusted to support parts of various shape and/or size. 2. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 1, wherein said parts are vehicle body side panels. 3. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 1, wherein a plurality of moveable cross-rails are present. 4. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 1, wherein at least one fixed position cross-rail is also present. 5. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 1, wherein said retention mechanism is released by exerting sufficient force against said clamping body to overcome said spring bias and disengage said clamping body from said gear rack. 6. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 5, wherein access to said clamping body is provided through said at least one moveable cross-rail. 7. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 1, wherein said linear guide means comprises at least one linear guide rail affixed to said frame and at least one corresponding linear guide block attached to said at least one moveable cross-rail. 8. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 1, wherein said at least one moveable cross-rail supports parts on both sides of said overhead conveyor. 9. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 1, wherein said at least one moveable cross-rail supports parts on only one side of said overhead conveyor. 10. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 1, further comprising means for indicating the position of said at least one moveable cross-rail. 11. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 10, wherein said means for indicating the position of said at least one moveable cross-rail is a numeric scale. 12. A flexible conveyor carrier fixture for facilitating the transport of dissimilar body side panels along an overhead conveyor, comprising: a carrier frame adapted for attachment to said overhead conveyor, said carrier frame having a length dimension extending along the direction of travel of said overhead conveyor, and a width dimension extending substantially transverse thereto; a moveable front, center and rear cross-rail residing below and extending across the width of said carrier frame; at least one hanger located at or near an end of each of said front and rear cross-rails, said hangers for supporting said body side panels in a suspended position therefrom; a position adjusting/setting element located at or near an end of said center cross-rail, said position adjusting/setting element for locating said body side panels along the length of said carrier frame; a pair of linear guide rails extending along the length of said carrier frame; a corresponding pair of linear guide blocks attached to each cross-rail and engaged with said linear guide rails to direct movement of said cross-rails along the length of said carrier frame; a cross-rail retention mechanism associated with each cross-rail and operative to secure the position of its associated cross-rail along the length of said carrier frame; and a cross-rail position indicator for identifying the positions of said cross-rails. 13. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 12, wherein at least one fixed position cross-rail is also present. 14. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 12, wherein said cross-rail retention mechanism comprises a spring-biased clamping mechanism that secures said at least one moveable cross-rail to said carrier frame. 15. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 14, wherein said spring-biased clamping mechanism includes a clamping body having a gear rack segment that engages a like gear rack attached to said carrier frame when in a normal position. 16. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 15, wherein said retention mechanism is released by exerting sufficient force against said clamping body to overcome said spring bias and disengage said clamping body from said gear rack. 17. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 16, wherein access to said clamping body is provided through its associated cross-rail. 18. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 12, wherein said carrier fixture is adapted to transport body side panels along both sides of said overhead conveyor. 19. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 12, wherein said carrier fixture is adapted to transport body side panels along only one side of said overhead conveyor. 20. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 12, wherein said cross-rail position indicator is a numeric scale. 21. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 12, wherein said hangers are grooved to receive an edge of said body panels. 22. A method of transporting dissimilar parts along an overhead conveyor, comprising: connecting at least one flexible conveyor carrier fixture to said overhead conveyor, said at least one flexible conveyor carrier fixture further comprising: (a) a carrier frame adapted for attachment to said overhead conveyor, (b) at least one moveable cross-rail extending across said carrier frame in a direction substantially transverse to the direction of travel of said overhead conveyor, (c) at least one hanger associated with said at least one moveable cross-rail for supporting said parts in a suspended position therefrom, (d) a linear guide means for directing movement of said at least one cross-rail back-and-forth along said carrier frame in a direction substantially parallel to the direction of travel of said overhead conveyor, and (e) a cross-rail retention mechanism associated with said at least one moveable cross-rail and operative to secure the position of said at least one moveable cross-rail along the length of said carrier frame, providing a robot end effector adapted to mate with said cross-rail retention mechanism; and using a robot equipped with said end effector to disengage said cross-rail retention mechanism and to subsequently reposition said at least one moveable crossrail along said carrier frame as needed to allow said flexible conveyor carrier fixture to accommodate parts of different size and/or shape. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein said robot also performs at least one other task unrelated to the repositioning of said at least one moveable cross-rail. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein said cross-rail retention mechanism comprises a spring-biased clamping mechanism that includes a clamping body having a gear rack segment that engages a like gear rack attached to said carrier frame when in a normal position. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said retention mechanism is released by using said robot to exert sufficient force against said clamping body with said end effector to overcome said spring bias and disengage said clamping body from said gear rack. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said end effector is an elongated pin. 27. The method of claim 25, further comprising an access hole in said at least one moveable cross-rail for allowing said end effector to pass therethrough and contact said clamping body. 28. The method of claim 25, further comprising a proximity sensor associated with said robot to detect when said clamping body has been sufficiently displaced by said end effector so as to be disengaged from said gear rack. 29. The method of claim 22, wherein said robot is provided with numerical coordinate data that allows it to properly position said at least one moveable cross-rail along said carrier frame with respect to each dissimilar part to be transported. 30. The method of claim 22, wherein said parts are vehicle side body panels. 31. A flexible conveyor carrier fixture for transporting parts along an overhead conveyor, comprising: a carrier frame adapted for attachment to said overhead conveyor; at least one moveable cross-rail extending across said carrier frame in a direction substantially transverse to the direction of travel of said overhead conveyor; at least one hanger associated with said at least one moveable cross-rail for supporting said parts in a suspended position therefrom; a linear guide means for directing movement of said at least one cross-rail back-and-forth along said carrier frame in a direction substantially parallel to the direction of travel of said overhead conveyor; a cross-rail retention mechanism associated with said at least one moveable cross-rail and operative to secure the position of said at least one moveable cross-rail along the length of said carrier frame; and a numeric scale for indicating the position of said at least one moveable cross-rail; wherein the position of said at least one moveable cross-rail along the length of said carrier frame can be adjusted to support parts of various shape and/or size. 32. The flexible conveyor carrier fixture of claim 31, wherein said parts are vehicle body side panels. 