The present invention provides meta-materials with an actively controllable mechanical property. The meta-material includes a deformable structure and a set of activation elements. The activation elements are controllable between multiple states. The meta-material includes a first value for a mechanical property when one or more of the activation elements is in the first activation state and includes a second value for the mechanical property when the activation elements have been activated to the second activation state. In one aspect, the meta-material resembles a composite material where the connectivity between the component materials or shape and arrangement of the component materials is dynamically controllable so as to affect a mechanical property of the meta-material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A meta-material comprising: a deformable or reconfigurable structure adapted to move or deform in a first lateral direction; and a set of activation elements, where each activation element a) mechanically couples to the deformable structure, b) includes a component that participates in an activation mechanism, and c) is configured to change between a first activation state and a second activation state, wherein the meta-material includes a first value for a mechanical property when at least one of the activation elements is in the first activation state and the meta-material includes a second value for the mechanical property when the at least one activation element has been activated to the second activation state, wherein the first activation state permits relative motion in said first lateral direction in the deformable or reconfigurable structure, and wherein the second activation state includes an electrostatic clamp that prevents relative motion in said first lateral direction in the deformable or reconfigurable structure between two activation elements participating in the electrostatic clamp, until an applied external force having a component in said first lateral direction exceeds an opposing friction force caused by an electrostatic force exerted between the two activation elements participating in the electrostatic clamp, said electrostatic force being substantially perpendicular to said first lateral direction. 2. The meta-material of claim 1 wherein the deformable structure comprises a compliant layer. 3. The meta-material of claim 1 wherein each activation element includes a stiff component having a stiffness greater than a stiffness for the deformable structure. 4. The meta-material of claim 3 wherein each activation element is bendable but not extendable. 5. The meta-material of claim 3 wherein each activation element at least partially laterally overlaps an adjacent activation element. 6. The meta-material of claim 3 wherein each activation element includes an electrode disposed on one surface of the stiff component. 7. The meta-material of claim 6 wherein each activation element further includes an insulating layer disposed between the electrode and either a) an adjacent activation element or b) the deformable structure. 8. The meta-material of claim 3 wherein a first subset of activation elements attach to a first surface of the compliant layer and a second subset of activation elements attach to a second surface of the compliant layer that is opposite to the first surface. 9. The meta-material of claim 8 wherein an activation element in the first subset laterally overlaps an activation element in the second subset when the at least one activation element has been activated to the second activation state. 10. The meta-material of claim 1 wherein the electrostatic force is exerted perpendicular to a surface between the two activation elements participating in the electrostatic clamp. 11. The meta-material of claim 1 wherein the meta-material is configured such that activation of one or more of the activation elements in the set of activation elements permits a third value for the mechanical property that is between the first value and the second value. 12. The meta-material of claim 1 wherein the meta-material includes a first shape when the at least one of the activation elements is in the first activation state and includes a second shape when the at least one of the activation elements has been activated to the second activation state. 13. The meta-material of claim 1 wherein the mechanical property is one of: toughness, elastic modulus, stiffness, damping, shape, and resilience. 14. The meta-material of claim 1 further comprising a locking mechanism that reduces the energy required to maintain a position of the meta-material when the at least one of the activation element has been activated to the second activation state. 15. The meta-material of claim 1 wherein a portion of the activation element couples to the deformable structure. 16. The meta-material of claim 1 wherein the meta-material comprises a composite of two materials, one of the two materials includes an active or intrinsically variable material and the one or more activation elements are included in the active or intrinsically variable material. 17. The meta-material of claim 1 further comprising independent electrical communication with each activation element in the set of activation elements. 18. The meta-material of claim 1 wherein each activation element attaches to the deformable structure. 19. The meta-material of claim 1 wherein a surface of the deformable structure is not flat. 20. The meta-material of claim 1 wherein the second state includes a different connectivity between the activation elements than a connectivity between the activation elements in the first state. 21. The meta-material of claim 1 wherein the meta-material includes a different shape when the at least one activation element has been activated to the second activation state than a shape for the meta-material when the at least one activation element is in the first state. 22. A meta-material comprising: a deformable structure adapted to move or deform in a first lateral direction; and a set of activation elements, where each activation element a) couples to the deformable structure, b) includes a stiff component, and c) is configured to change between a first activation state and a second activation state, wherein the meta-material includes a first stiffness that permits a portion of the deformable structure to move or deform freely in said first lateral direction when at least one of the activation elements is in the first activation state and the meta-material includes a second stiffness that restricts relative motion or deformation in said first lateral direction at said portion of the deformable structure when the at least one activation element has been activated to the second activation state, wherein the second activation state includes an electrostatic clamp that restricts the relative motion or deformation in the deformable structure between in said first lateral direction at the at least one of the activation elements participating in the electrostatic clamp, up to a friction force in said first lateral direction that is caused by and is substantially perpendicular to an electrostatic force resulting from the electrostatic clamp. 23. The meta-material of claim 22 wherein the deformable structure comprises a compliant layer. 24. The meta-material of claim 22 wherein the stiff component has a stiffness greater than a stiffness for the deformable structure. 25. The meta-material of claim 24 wherein each activation element is bendable but not extendable. 26. The meta-material of claim 24 wherein each activation element at least partially laterally overlaps an adjacent activation element. 27. The meta-material of claim 24 wherein each activation element includes an electrode disposed on one surface of the stiff component. 28. The meta-material of claim 27 wherein each activation element further includes an insulating layer disposed between the electrode and either a) an adjacent activation element or b) the deformable structure. 29. The meta-material of claim 24 wherein a first subset of activation elements attach to a first surface of the compliant layer and a second subset of activation elements attach to a second surface of the compliant layer that is opposite to the first surface. 30. The meta-material of claim 29 wherein an activation element in the first subset laterally overlaps in an activation element in the second subset. 31. The meta-material of claim 22 further comprising independent electrical communication with each activation element in the set of activation elements. 32. The meta-material of claim 22 wherein the electrostatic force is exerted perpendicular to a surface between the two activation elements participating in the electrostatic clamp. 33. The meta-material of claim 22 wherein a strength for the electrostatic clamp limits the second stiffness. 34. The meta-material of claim 22 wherein the set of activation elements is mechanically redundant. 35. The meta-material of claim 22 wherein the meta-material is configured such that activation of one or more of the activation elements in the set of activation elements permits a third stiffness that is between the first stiffness and the second stiffness. 36. The meta-material of claim 22 wherein the meta-material includes a first shape when the at least one of the activation elements is in the first activation state and includes a second shape when the at least one of the activation elements has been activated to the second activation state. 37. The meta-material of claim 22 wherein the second stiffness is tunable according to the number and location of activation elements that have been activated. 38. The meta-material of claim 37 wherein each stiff component has an elastic modulus greater than about 100 MPa. 39. The meta-material of claim 37 wherein the first stiffness is less than about 10 MPa and the second stiffness is greater than about 100 MPa. 40. A meta-material comprising: a deformable structure adapted to move in at least a first lateral direction; and a set of activation elements, where each activation element a) includes a stiff component, b) couples to the deformable structure, and c) is configured to change between a first activation state and a second activation state in response to external input, wherein the meta-material includes a first damping coefficient with respect to movement in said first lateral direction when at least one of the activation elements is in the first activation state and the meta-material includes a second damping coefficient with respect to movement in said first lateral direction when the at least one activation element has been activated to the second activation state, wherein the second activation state includes an electrostatic clamp that prevents relative motion along said first lateral direction in said deformable structure between two activation elements participating in the electrostatic clamp up to a friction force along said first lateral direction that is caused by and is substantially perpendicular to an electrostatic force exerted between the two activation elements. 41. The meta-material of claim 40 wherein each activation element includes a stiff component having a stiffness greater than a stiffness for the deformable structure. 42. The meta-material of claim 41 wherein each activation element includes an electrode disposed on one surface of the stiff component. 43. The meta-material of claim 40 wherein the friction force is not strong enough to withstand an external force being damped. 44. A meta-material comprising: a deformable structure adapted to move or deform in a first lateral direction; and a set of activation elements, where each activation element includes a stiff component that couples to the deformable structure, wherein the meta-material includes a first value for a mechanical property when at least one of the activation elements is not electrostatically clamped to another activation element and the meta-material includes a second value for the mechanical property when the at least one activation element has been electrostatically clamped to another activation element, wherein the electrostatic clamp prevents relative motion along the first lateral direction in the deformable structure between two activation elements that are participating in the electrostatic clamp, up to a friction force along said first lateral direction that is caused by and is substantially perpendicular to an electrostatic force exerted between the two activation elements participating in the electrostatic clamp. 45. The meta-material of claim 44 wherein the stiff component comprises a conductive material. 46. The meta-material of claim 44 wherein the stiff component comprises a coupling portion that couples to the deformable structure and an electrostatic clamping portion. 47. The meta-material of claim 44 further comprising an electrode attached to the stiff component. 48. The meta-material of claim 44 wherein each activation element at least partially laterally overlaps an adjacent activation element. 49. The meta-material of claim 48 wherein each activation element further includes an insulating layer disposed between an electrode and either a) an adjacent activation element or b) the deformable structure. 50. The meta-material of claim 44 wherein the deformable structure comprises a compliant layer. 51. The meta-material of claim 50 wherein a first subset of activation elements attach to a first surface of the compliant layer and a second subset of activation elements attach to a second surface of the compliant layer that is opposite to the first surface. 52. The meta-material of claim 51 wherein an activation element in the first subset laterally overlaps in an activation element in the second subset. 53. The meta-material of claim 44 further comprising independent electrical communication with each activation element in the set of activation elements. 54. The meta-material of claim 44 wherein each activation element attaches to the deformable structure. 55. The meta-material of claim 44 wherein a surface of the deformable structure is not flat. 56. A meta-material comprising: a deformable or reconfigurable structure adapted to move or deform in at least a first lateral direction; and a set of activation elements, where each activation element a) couples to the deformable structure, and b) includes a stiff component configured to participate in an electrostatic clamp with another overlapping activation element, wherein the meta-material includes a first value for a mechanical property when a first activation element is not electrostatically clamped to a second overlapping activation element and the meta-material includes a second value for the mechanical property when the first activation element is electrostatically clamped to second overlapping in activation element, wherein the electrostatic clamp prevents relative motion along the first lateral direction between the first activation element and the second overlapping activation element up to a friction force along said first lateral direction that is caused by and is substantially perpendicular to an electrostatic force created by an applied electric field exerted between the first activation element and the second overlapping activation element. 57. The meta-material of claim 56 wherein the deformable structure comprises a compliant layer. 58. The meta-material of claim 56 wherein the stiff component has a stiffness greater than a stiffness for the deformable structure. 59. The meta-material of claim 58 wherein each activation element is bendable but not extendable. 60. The meta-material of claim 58 wherein each activation element at least partially laterally overlaps an adjacent activation element. 61. The meta-material of claim 58 wherein each activation element includes an electrode disposed on one surface of the stiff component. 62. The meta-material of claim 61 wherein each activation element further includes an insulating layer disposed between the electrode and either a) an adjacent activation element or b) the deformable structure. 63. The meta-material of claim 58 wherein a first subset of activation elements attach to a first surface of the compliant layer and a second subset of activation elements attach to a second surface of the compliant layer that is opposite to the first surface. 64. The meta-material of claim 63 wherein an activation element in the first subset laterally overlapping an activation element in the second subset when the at least one activation element has been activated to the second activation state. 65. The meta-material of claim 56 wherein the meta-material includes a first shape when the at least one of the activation elements is in the first activation state and includes a second shape when the at least one of the activation elements has been activated to the second activation state. 66. The meta-material of claim 56 wherein the mechanical property is one of: toughness, elastic modulus, stiffness, damping, shape, and resilience. 67. The meta-material of claim 56 further comprising a locking mechanism that reduces the energy required to maintain a position of the meta-material when the applied electric field is applied and the electrostatic clamp prevents relative motion between the activation element and the overlapping activation element. 68. The meta-material of claim 56 further comprising independent electrical communication with each activation element in the set of activation elements. 69. The meta-material of claim 56 wherein each activation element attaches to the deformable structure. 70. The meta-material of claim 56 wherein a surface of the deformable structure is not flat. 71. The meta-material of claim 56 the meta-material has a different connectivity between the activation elements when the electrostatic clamp is applied than a connectivity between the activation elements without the electrostatic clamp. 72. A meta-material comprising: a compliant layer adapted to move or deform in at least a first lateral direction; and a set of activation elements, where each activation element a) couples to the compliant layer, b) includes a stiff component having a stiffness greater than a stiffness for the compliant layer, c) at least partially laterally overlaps an adjacent activation element, and d) includes an electrode disposed on one surface of the stiff component, wherein the meta-material includes a first value for a mechanical property when a first activation element is not electrostatically clamped to when an overlapping in second activation element and the meta-material includes a second value for the mechanical property when the first activation element is electrostatically clamped to the overlapping second activation element, wherein the electrostatic clamp prevents relative motion along the first lateral direction between the first activation element and the overlapping second activation element up to a friction force along said first lateral direction that is caused by and is substantially perpendicular to an electrostatic force created by an applied electric field exerted between the first activation element and the overlapping second activation element. 73. The meta-material of claim 72 wherein each activation element is bendable but not extendable. 74. The meta-material of claim 72 wherein the stiff component includes the electrode. 75. The meta-material of claim 72 wherein each activation element further includes an insulating layer disposed between the electrode and either a) an adjacent activation element or b) the deformable structure. 76. The meta-material of claim 72 wherein a first subset of activation elements attach to a first surface of the compliant layer and a second subset of activation elements attach to a second surface of the compliant layer that is opposite to the first surface and the compliant layer includes an insulating material. 77. The meta-material of claim 72 wherein the meta-material includes a first shape when the at least one of the activation elements is in the first activation state and includes a second shape when the at least one of the activation elements has been activated to the second activation state. 78. The meta-material of claim 72 wherein the mechanical property is one of: toughness, elastic modulus, stiffness, damping, shape, and resilience. 79. The meta-material of claim 72 further comprising a locking mechanism that reduces the energy required to maintain a position of the meta-material when the applied electric field is applied and the electrostatic clamp prevents relative motion between the activation element and the overlapping activation element. 80. The meta-material of claim 72 further comprising independent electrical communication with each activation element in the set of activation elements. 81. The meta-material of claim 72 wherein each activation element attaches to the deformable structure. 82. The meta-material of claim 72 wherein a surface of the deformable structure is not flat. 83. The meta-material of claim 72 the meta-material has a different connectivity between the activation elements when the electrostatic clamp is applied than a connectivity between the activation elements without the electrostatic clamp. 84. The meta-material of claim 72 wherein each stiff component has an elastic modulus greater than about 100 MPa. 85. A meta-material comprising: a compliant layer with a stiffness less than about 10 MPa; and a set of activation elements, where each activation element a) couples to the compliant layer, b) includes a stiff component having a stiffness greater than about 100 MPa, c) at least partially laterally overlapping an adjacent activation element along a first lateral direction, and d) includes an electrode disposed on one surface of the stiff component, wherein the meta-material includes a first value for a mechanical property when a first activation element is not electrostatically clamped to an overlapping second activation element and the meta-material includes a second value for the mechanical property when the first activation element is electrostatically clamped to the overlapping second activation element, and wherein the electrostatic clamp prevents relative motion along said first lateral direction between the first activation element and the overlapping in second activation element up to a friction force along said first lateral direction that is caused by and is substantially perpendicular to an electrostatic force created by an applied electric field exerted between the first activation element and the overlapping second activation element. 