A new architecture overcomes the limitation of conventional robotic technologies. Named the Self Organizing Model ("SOM") it includes a method that allows systems to learn, grow and continually evolve without outside control. This technology enables Artificial Life, one aspect of which is robotic "life." If this system is compared to a real living thing, the hardware is like the body and the potential instinct and habits and related data are like the DNA. The hardware includes memory which contains the instinct and related data. Algorithms and organizations are provided so that the hardware forms an adapting and evolving brain that senses the environment and formulates actions to improve the survival of the Artificial Life according to predetermined rules. The organism can learn and become more complex all without complex software programs that attempt to anticipate all possible situations.
Claims I claim: 1. An architecture for a self-organizing robotic system comprising: an input system which comprises: sensory organ means for receiving information from the environment and translating the information into an information pattern; and input receptive organ means for receiving each information pattern and converting each information pattern into a geometric connection; an output system which comprises: output receptive organ means for receiving geometric connections; and effect organ means for receiving the geometric connections from the output receptive organ means and for causing an effect in response; a mind system for receiving geometric connections from the input system, processing the geometric connections and transmitting the geometric connections to the output system, which mind system comprises: an advanced mind subsystem comprising an advanced neuro-matrix means for providing consciousness; and a primitive mind subsystem comprising: a primitive neuro-matrix means for providing subconsciousness; instinct means for storing causal relationships to provide a geometric connection output according to a geometric connection input; instinct for survival means for prioritizing each input and output in terms of comfortable and uncomfortable; and instincts arbiter means for controlling future actions through promotion and inhibition of the output geometric connection according to status of the instinct for survival means; wherein the output geometric connection observes conditions expressed by the instinct for survival means and the instincts arbiter means. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the input receptive organ means comprises a potential memory field means for receiving a receptive cell impulse from the sensory organ means and forming and temporarily storing a geometric connection from each receptive cell impulse, and an environmental adaptation memory field means for receiving and storing the geometric connections from the potential memory field means and interacting with the mind system to form causal relationships within the mind system. 3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the potential memory field means comprises a lower abstraction layer for receiving the receptive cell impulses and an upper abstraction layer for temporarily storing the geometric connections and for sending the geometric connections to the environmental adaptation memory field means. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the sensory organ means is one or more organs selected from the group consisting of sense organs, vision organs, auditory organs and motion recognition organs. 5. The system according to claim 4, wherein the motion recognition organ receives geometric connections from the potential memory field means of the vision organ, the sense organ and the auditory organ and compares successive geometric connections to detect serial time-related changes to create new geometric connections representing said changes. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein the effect is a movement caused by a motor. 7. The system according to claim 1, further comprising receiver means for receiving data from other self organizing systems and transmitter means for transmitting data to other self organizing systems. 8. A geometric connection control unit for hardware implementation of a self-organizing robotic system comprising: a data bus; a central processing unit in communication with the data bus; a main memory in communication with the data bus; an output network in communication with the main memory; an inside queue network in communication with the data bus for servicing data requests from other geometric connection control units connected in parallel; an inside bank memory containing memory maps from other geometric connection control units connected in parallel; an inside memory window in communication with the data bus for addressing the main memory according to memory maps contained in the inside bank memory; an outside queue network in communication with the data bus for servicing data requests that do not come from other geometric connection control units connected in parallel; an outside bank memory containing memory maps that do not come from other geometric connection control units connected in parallel; and an outside memory window in communication with the data bus for addressing the main memory according to memory maps contained in the outside bank memory. 9. A self-organizing system comprising a plurality of the geometric connection control units according to claim 8 comprising: receptive field means for generating a receptive cell impulse in response to the environment; a receptive organ means comprising: geometric connection generator means for a creating geometric connection from the receptive cell impulse; potential memory field means comprising at least one geometric connection control unit for receiving the geometric connection; environmental adaptation memory means comprising at least one geometric connection control unit for receiving geometric connections from the potential memory field means; instinct means comprising at least one geometric connection control unit in data communication with the receptive organ means and in bidirectional communication with the advanced neuro-matrix means and the primitive neuro-matrix means; primitive neuro-matrix means comprising at least one geometric connection control unit for receiving geometric connections from the instinct means; advanced neuro-matrix means comprising at least one geometric connection control unit in bidirectional communication with the primitive neuro-matrix means; instincts arbiter means and instinct for survival means comprising at least one geometric connection control unit in communication with each other and with the advanced neuro-matrix means and the instinct means for inhibiting and promoting actions; and effect field means receiving communications from instincts arbiter means and the instinct for survival means and the advanced neuro-matrix means for producing an effect in response to the communications. 10. A method for creating a self-organizing robotic system comprising the steps of: providing an input process which comprises the steps of: a sensing step for receiving information from the environment and translating the information into an information pattern; and an input receptive step for receiving each information pattern and converting each information pattern into a geometric connection; an output process which comprises the steps of: an output receptive step for receiving geometric connections; and an effect step for receiving the geometric connections from the output receptive step and for causing an effect in response; a mind process for receiving geometric connections from the input step, processing the geometric connections and transmitting the geometric connections to the output step, which mind process comprises the steps of: an advanced mind subprocess comprising the steps of furnishing an advanced neuro-matrix means for providing consciousness; and a primitive mind subsystem comprising the steps of: furnishing a primitive neuro-matrix means for providing subconsciousness; furnishing an instinct means for storing causal relationships to output a geometric connection according to input of a geometric connection; furnishing an instinct for survival means for prioritizing each input and output in terms of comfortable and uncomfortable; furnishing an instincts arbiter means for controlling future actions through promotion and inhibition of the output geometric connection according to status of the instinct for survival means; and revising the output geometric connection based on a condition expressed by the instinct for survival means and a condition expressed by the instincts arbiter means. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the input receptive step further comprises a memorizing step for receiving a receptive cell impulse from the sensing step, forming and temporarily storing a geometric connection from each receptive cell impulse, and an environmental adaptation step for receiving and storing the geometric connections from the memorizing step and interacting with the mind process to form causal relationships. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the memorizing step comprises using a lower abstraction layer for receiving the receptive cell impulses and an upper abstraction layer for temporarily storing the geometric connections and for communicating the geometric connections with the environmental adaptation step. 13. The method according to claim 10, wherein the step uses one or more organs selected from the group consisting of sense organs, vision organs, auditory organs and motion recognition organs. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the motion recognition organ receives geometric connections from the vision organ, the sense organ and the auditory organ and compares successive geometric connections to detect serial time-related changes to create new geometric connections representing said changes. 15. The method according to claim 10, wherein the effect is a movement caused by a motor. 16. The method according to claim 10, further comprising a receiving step for receiving data from other self organizing systems and a transmitting step for transmitting data to other self organizing systems. 