A microtitre plate having a relieved perimeter includes a plate defining a plurality of wells and the perimeter of the plate is horizontally relieved. Alternatively, a microtitre plate may include a base and a holding section extending from the base. The holding section defines a plurality of wells and the perimeter thereof being horizontally relieved.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A microtitre plate comprising a plate defining a plurality of wells arranged in a plurality of rows, the wells having walls therebetween, the perimeter of the microtitre plate being relieved by a plurality of reliefs, each of the plurality of reliefs comprising a concavity, each of the plurality of reliefs being aligned with one of the plurality of rows, each of the plurality of reliefs having a wall between the relief and an adjacent well that is not thicker than the walls between the wells. 2. The microtitre plate of claim 1, wherein the plate defines 96, 384, or 1,536 wells. 3. The microtitre plate of claim 1, wherein the microtitre plate is rectangular in shape, having two long edges and two short edges. 4. The microtitre plate of claim 3, wherein the perimeter of the microtitre plate is relieved on the long edges thereof. 5. The microtitre plate of claim 4, wherein the perimeter of the microtitre plate is relieved on the short edges thereof. 6. The microtitre plate of claim 1, wherein the reliefs are scallop shaped. 7. A microtitre plate, comprising: a base; and a holding section extending from the base, the holding section defining a plurality of wells arranged in a plurality of rows, the wells having walls therebetween, the perimeter of the holding section being relieved by a plurality of reliefs each of the plurality of reliefs comprising a concavity, each of the plurality of reliefs being aligned with one of the plurality of rows, each of the plurality of reliefs having a wall between the relief and an adjacent well that is not thicker than the walls between the wells. 8. The microtitre plate of claim 7, wherein the holding section defines 96, 384, or 1,536 wells. 9. The microtitre plate of claim 7, wherein the holding section is rectangular in shape, having two long edges and two short edges. 10. The microtitre plate of claim 9, wherein the perimeter of the holding section is relieved on the long edges thereof. 11. The microtitre plate of claim 10, wherein the perimeter of the holding section is relieved on the short edges thereof. 12. The microtitre plate of claim 7, wherein the reliefs are scallop shaped. 13. The microtitre plate of claim 1, wherein the reliefs are square shaped. 14. The microtitre plate of claim 7, wherein the reliefs are square shaped. 15. The microtitre plate of claim 1, wherein the reliefs are configured to allow clearance for an automated liquid handler to access a subset of the wells. 16. The microtitre plate of claim 7, wherein the reliefs are configured to allow clearance for an automated liquid handler to access a subset of the wells. 