A method and apparatus are provided for forming elongated composite structural members with a desired cross-sectional geometry as taken transverse to the length of the member. An apparatus may include a base with a substantially elongated mandrel mounted thereon. One or more rollers configured to at least partially complementarily engage the mandrel are configured to roll over and press one or more plies of composite material onto the mandrel. The mandrel may be disposed on a rotary table and configured to exhibit a curved elongated geometry to form at least partially curved or arcuate elongated members. The present invention enables the formation of elongated structural members from resin impregnated materials while maintaining the materials in a substantially uncured state. The formed members may then be cocured with a skin or other composite structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for forming elongated composite structural members comprising: a table configured to rotate about a defined axis; at least one mandrel mounted on the table, the at least one mandrel exhibiting a substantially elongated geometry including at least one substantially arcuate portion; a carriage assembly disposed adjacent the table; at least one roller exhibiting a geometry configured to at least partially complementarily engage the at least one mandrel and roll thereover, the at least one roller coupled with the carriage assembly; at least one material dispensing device configured to dispense at least one ply of material onto the at least one mandrel; and at least one force applying mechanism located and configured to apply a desired force to the at least one ply and induce a desired amount of tension therein while the material is on the at least one mandrel and while the at least one roller passes over the at least one ply disposed on the at least one mandrel. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one roller comprises a plurality of rollers coupled with the carriage assembly. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one material dispensing device is configured to dispense a first ply of material exhibiting a first width and at least a second ply of material exhibiting a second width different than the first width. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one roller and the at least one mandrel are complementarily configured to form an elongated composite structural member substantially exhibiting a cross-sectional geometry of a hat as taken transversely to a length thereof. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one roller and the at least one mandrel are complementarily configured to form an elongated composite structural member substantially exhibiting a cross-sectional geometry of at least one C-shape as taken transversely to a length thereof. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one roller and the at least one mandrel are complementarily configured to form an elongated composite structural member substantially exhibiting a cross-sectional geometry of at least one angle as taken transversely to a length thereof. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one roller and the at least one mandrel are complementarily configured to form an elongated composite structural member substantially exhibiting a cross-sectional geometry including at least one arcuate section taken transversely to a length thereof. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one actuator operably coupled between the carriage assembly and the at least one roller configured to apply a force to the at least one mandrel via the at least one roller. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the at least one actuator includes a hydraulic system. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the at least one actuator includes a pneumatic system. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one mandrel includes a plurality of mandrels. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the carriage assembly is configured to be displaced in a radial direction relative to the defined axis. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the at least one roller is configured to track a radial deviation of the at least one mandrel while the table rotates about the defined axis. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a heating device configured and oriented to heat at least a portion of the at least one ply of material. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one material dispensing device further comprises: at least one supply roller having a supply of material to be dispensed as the at least one ply of material; at least one feeding device to motivate the at least one ply of material from the at least one supply roller to the at least one mandrel; and at least one tack roller configured to press the at least one ply of material against a portion of the at least one mandrel. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the at least one material dispensing device further comprises at least one cutting device located and configured to cut the at least one ply of material. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the at least one cutting device is configured to cut the at least one ply of material to a desired width. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the at least one cutting device is configured to cut the at least one ply of material to a desired length. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a controller operably coupled with the apparatus and configured to control the at least one feeding device. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a controller operably coupled with the apparatus and configured to control the at least one force applying mechanism. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a controller operably coupled with the apparatus and configured to control the rotation of the table. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the controller includes a processor, a memory device, at least one input device and at least one output device. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one force applying mechanism is located and configured to apply the desired force to the at least one ply in a direction that is substantially tangent to the at least one mandrel at a location where the at least one ply is disposed on the at least one mandrel. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one force applying mechanism is located and configured to apply the desired force to the at least one ply at an angle of approximately 89.degree. to 90.degree. relative to a radial centerline passing through the defined axis and through the at least one mandrel at a location where the at least one ply is disposed on the at least one mandrel. 