The invention relates to methods and compositions for identifying soybean plants that are tolerant, have improved tolerance or are susceptible to Phytophthora root rot infection. The methods use molecular genetic markers to identify, select and/or construct disease-tolerant plants or identify and counter-select disease-susceptible plants. Soybean plants that display tolerance or improved tolerance to Phytophthora root rot infection that are generated by the methods of the invention are also a feature of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying a first soybean plant or germplasm that displays tolerance or improved tolerance to Phytophthora sp. infection, the method comprising detecting in the first soybean plant or germplasm at least one allele of a marker locus that is associated with the tolerance or improved tolerance, wherein the marker locus is localized within a chromosomal interval defined by and including the termini SATT270 and SATT440 on linkage group I. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the germplasm is a soybean line or soybean variety. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the tolerance or improved tolerance is a non-race specific tolerance or a non-race specific improved tolerance. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the tolerance or improved tolerance is assayed by an inoculum layer assay. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the Phytophthora sp. is Phytophthora sojae. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting comprises detecting at least one allelic form of a polymorphic simple sequence repeat (SSR) or a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting comprises amplifying the marker locus or a portion of the marker locus and detecting the resulting amplified marker amplicon. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the at least one SNP allele is detected by allele specific hybridization (ASH) analysis. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the amplifying comprises employing a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or ligase chain reaction (LCR) with a nucleic acid isolated from the first soybean plant or germplasm as a template in the PCR or LCR. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one allele comprises two or more alleles. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the marker locus is determined using the mapping population from the cross between P9242 and OX715. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the marker locus is determined using software selected from the group consisting of TASSEL, GeneFlow and MapManager-QTX. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting the first soybean plant or germplasm, or selecting a progeny of the first soybean plant or germplasm comprising the at least one allele of a marker locus that is associated with the tolerance or improved tolerance to Phytophthora sp. infection. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising crossing the selected first soybean plant or germplasm with a second soybean plant or germplasm. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the second soybean plant or germplasm comprises an exotic soybean strain or an elite soybean strain. 