A path generator includes a map generator for generating a map for a movement space based on information on the position and shape of a mobile object, an obstacle, and a target object. It also includes a composite potential generator for calculating an attractive potential and a repulsive potential based on relative positional relationship among the mobile object, the obstacle, and the destination position, and generating a composite potential that is a sum of the attractive potential and the repulsive potential. A local minimum determination unit performs a path search in the map based on the composite potential and determines whether a convergence position of the path search is a local minimum. If it is, a phantom potential generator generates a phantom potential to be added to the potential of the convergence position. If the convergence position is the destination position, a path generator generates a movement path for the mobile object based on the result of the path search.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A path generator for autonomously generating a movement path for a mobile object in a movement space, comprising: a map generator configured to generate a map of said movement space based on an initial position and a destination position of said mobile object, and the positions and shapes of one or more obstacles; a composite potential generator configured to calculate an attractive potential and a repulsive potential that are based on a relative positional relationship in said map of said mobile object, said obstacles and said destination position, wherein said generator is configured to generate a composite potential that is a sum of the attractive potential and the repulsive potential; a local minimum determination unit configured to perform a path search in said map based on said composite potential, wherein said local determination unit is configured to determine a position of a lowest composite potential in a local area of a predetermined size around said mobile object and to determine whether said position of the lowest composite potential matches said destination position, wherein said path generator is configured such that when said position of a lowest composite potential does not match said destination position, a potential is added to said lowest composite potential so that said mobile object may move out of said position of the lowest composite potential; and when said position of the lowest composite potential matches said destination position, a movement path for said mobile object is produced. 2. The path generator for a mobile object according to claim 1, further comprising: a tag information detector configured to receive signals from tags attached to said mobile object, said obstacles and a target object. 3. The path generator for a mobile object according to claim 2, wherein said tags include RF-ID tags attached to the target object and one or more movable obstacles and ultrasonic tags attached to said mobile object and one or more fixed obstacles. 4. The path generator for a mobile object as in any one of claims 1, 2, and 3, wherein said attractive potential is determined by a formula represented by .function..times..times. ##EQU00003## where (x,y) is a coordinate in said map, (x.sub.d,y.sub.d) is a coordinate of said destination position, and k.sub.p is a positive weighting factor, said repulsive potential is determined by a formula represented by .function..times..eta..function..function..function..ltoreq..function.>- ; ##EQU00004## where .eta. is a positive weighting factor, p.sub.0 is a positive constant representing a threshold at which repulsive potential occurs, p(x,y) is a smallest distance between a certain coordinate (x,y) in said map and a coordinate where said obstacle lies, p(x,y) is determined by a formula represented by p(x,y)=min {square root over ((x-x.sub.m).sup.2+(y-y.sub.m).sup.2)}{square root over ((x-x.sub.m).sup.2+(y-y.sub.m).sup.2)} where (x.sub.m,y.sub.m)represents all coordinates contained in an area of said obstacle in said map, and said composite potential is determined by a formula represented by U(x,y)=U.sub.xd(x,y)+U.sub.0(x, y)+U.sub.v(x,y) where U.sub.xd(x,y) is an attractive potential, U.sub.0(x,y) is a repulsive potential, and U.sub.v(x,y) is a potential to be added to said lowest composite potential so that said mobile object may move out of said position of the lowest composite potential. 5. A computer executable program, stored in a computer readable medium, for autonomously generating a movement path for a mobile object in a movement space, said program causing a computer to perform a process, the process comprising: generating a map for said movement space based on information that is stored in a memory including an initial position and a destination position of said mobile object and a position and shape of one or more obstacles; calculating an attractive potential and a repulsive potential in said map based on a relative positional relationship among said mobile object, said obstacles and said destination position, and generating a composite potential as a sum of the attractive potential and the repulsive potential; performing a path search in said map based on said composite potential, determining a position of a lowest composite potential in a local area of a predetermined size around said mobile object, and determining whether said position of the lowest composite potential matches said destination position; adding a potential to said lowest composite potential so that said mobile object may move out of said position of the lowest composite potential when said position of the lowest composite potential does not match said destination position; and producing a movement path for said mobile object when said position of the lowest composite potential matches said destination position. 6. The program according to claim 5, further causing the computer to identify information from signals from tags attached to said mobile object, said obstacle and a target object at said destination position. 7. The program according to claim 6, wherein said tags include RF-ID tags attached to said target object and movable obstacle and ultrasonic tags attached to said mobile object and one or more fixed obstacles. 8. The program as in any one of claims 5, 6, and 7, wherein said attractive potential is determined by a formula represented by .function..times..times. ##EQU00005## where (x,y) is a certain coordinate in said map, (x.sub.d,y.sub.d) is a coordinate of said destination position, and k.sub.p is a positive weighting factor, said repulsive potential is determined by a formula represented by .function..times..eta..function..function..function..ltoreq..function.>- ; ##EQU00006## where .eta. is a positive weighting factor, p.sub.0 is a positive constant and is a threshold at which repulsive potential occurs, p(x,y) is the smallest distance between a certain coordinate (x,y) in said map and a coordinate at which said obstacle is recognized to exist, p(x,y) is determined by a formula represented by p(x,y)=min {square root over ((x-x.sub.m).sup.2+(y-y.sub.m).sup.2)}{square root over ((x-x.sub.m).sup.2+(y-y.sub.m).sup.2)} where (x.sub.m,y.sub.m) represents all coordinates contained in an area of said obstacle in said map, and said composite potential is determined by a formula represented by U(x,y)=U.sub.xd(x,y)+U.sub.0(x,y)+U.sub.v(x,y) where U.sub.xd(x,y) is an attractive potential, U.sub.0(x,y) is a repulsive potential, and U.sub.v(x,y) is a potential to be added to said lowest composite potential so that said mobile object may move out of said position of the lowest composite potential. 