An assembly is provided for simulating the dilating and constricting of a pupil of an eye. The assembly includes a shell that is at least translucent to light and a dilation mechanism with a deformable member positionable to contact an inner surface of the shell. An actuator is provided in the dilation mechanism to move the deformable member toward and away from the inner surface, which causes the size of a contact area between the inner surface and a lip of the deformable member to vary over a preset range. The assembly includes a light source directing light onto the inner surface of the shell. The deformable member dynamically blocks light from reaching the inner surface, creating a pupil or dark hole. The light may be an ultraviolet light and the deformable member contacts a pattern or artwork on the inner surface including portions that glow in ultraviolet light.
Claims I claim: 1. An assembly for simulating a dilating and constricting pupil in an eye, comprising: a shell comprising a material that is at least translucent to light; and a dilation mechanism comprising a deformable member positioned to contact an inner surface of the shell and an actuator connected to the deformable member moving the deformable member toward and away from the inner surface to vary a size of a contact area between the inner surface and the deformable member. 2. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a light source directing light onto the inner surface of the shell, whereby the deformable member blocks the light from reaching the inner surface at least at the contact area. 3. The assembly of claim 2, further comprising a pattern on the inner surface including a portion that is illuminated when exposed to ultraviolet light and wherein the light source comprises an ultraviolet light source and wherein the contact area at least partially covers the ultraviolet light portion of the pattern. 4. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the shell comprises a semi-spherical wall, the ultraviolet light portion of the pattern is located in a center area of the wall, and the contact area is positioned in a center of the ultraviolet light portion of the pattern. 5. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the deformable member is formed of a resilient material and the deformable member has a position that is variable by the actuator from a first position in which the contact area is at a minimum value to a second position more proximate to the inner surface in which the contact area is at a maximum value. 6. The assembly of claim 5, further comprising a controller controlling the actuator to move the deformable member in response to ambient light levels proximate to an exterior surface of the shell. 7. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a colored liquid contacting the inner shell and being at least partially displaced by the deformable member at the contact area. 8. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a supplemental light source directing light onto a side of the deformable member. 9. An eye assembly operable to provide a dilating pupil effect, comprising: a shell with an inner surface comprising a pattern formed with fluorescent materials; a light source generating ultraviolet light directed toward the pattern on the inner surface of the shell; and a dilating mechanism with a plunger formed of resilient material that is positionable at a first position to contact the inner surface within the pattern over a first contact area, at a second position to contact the inner surface within the pattern over a second contact area that is greater in magnitude than the first contact area, and at positions between the first and second positions. 10. The assembly of claim 9, wherein the dilating mechanism further comprises a linear actuator attached to the plunger via a shaft, the linear actuator operating to selectively position the plunger at one of the plunger positions relative to the shell inner surface. 11. The assembly of claim 9, further comprising a supplementary light source focusing light onto a side of the plunger. 12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the supplementary light source comprises a colored light emitting diode and further comprising means for varying a brightness of the light emitting diode. 13. The assembly of claim 9, wherein the resilient material is black and the plunger is conical, frustoconical, semi-spherical, or spherical in shape. 14. A method for creating a dilating pupil effect, comprising: providing a pattern including fluorescent material on a surface of a wall that is at least partially transparent to light; directing ultraviolet light toward the pattern; and blocking the ultraviolet light from illuminating a portion of the pattern, whereby the portion of the pattern appears as a dark hole in surround portions of the pattern illuminated by the ultraviolet light, wherein the blocking of the ultraviolet light comprises contacting the portion of the pattern on the wall surface with a plunger formed of deformable and resilient material. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the blocking comprises altering the contacting of the wall surface with the plunger such that the portion of the pattern blocked from the ultraviolet light increases or decreases in size. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the positioning of the plunger is performed by operation of a linear actuator with a movable shaft attached to the plunger. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the linear actuator is operated in response to sensed ambient light proximate to the wall. 18. The method of claim 14, further comprising directing supplemental light onto a side of the plunger concurrently with the blocking of the ultraviolet light. 