An automatic milking system having a vacuum pump arrangement, the automatic milking system includes a milking system controller arranged to control milking system parameters and a vacuum pump arrangement having a vacuum system controller for controlling vacuum system parameters. Communication means is coupled to the vacuum system controller and to the milking system controller for establishing communication between the vacuum system controllers and the milking system controller. The milking system controller has signal transmitting means for transmitting a message to the vacuum system controller. The vacuum system controller has signal receiving means for receiving the message from the milking system controller, and the vacuum system controller is arranged to change a least one of the vacuum system parameters depending on the received message.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An automatic milking system comprising a vacuum pump arrangement, wherein said automatic milking system comprises a milking system controller arranged to control milking system parameters and said vacuum pump arrangement comprises a vacuum system controller for controlling vacuum system parameters, comprising: communication means coupled to said vacuum system controller and to said milking system controller for establishing communication between said vacuum system controller and said milking system controller, said milking system controller comprises signal transmitting means for transmitting a message to said vacuum system controller, said vacuum system controller comprises signal receiving means for receiving said message from said milking system controller, and said vacuum system controller is arranged to change at least one of said vacuum system parameters depending on said received message, wherein said milking system controller is arranged to send a message to said vacuum system controller in dependence of a first milking system parameter, said message is an order to reduce the vacuum Level to a stand-by vacuum level, which is substantially lower than a milking vacuum level, and said first milking system parameter is a parameter indicating that no animal is present in the automatic milking system. 2. The automatic milking system according to claim 1, wherein said vacuum system controller comprises signal transmitting means for sending a message relating to at least one of said vacuum system parameters to said milking system controller, and said milking system controller comprises signal receiving means for receiving said message. 3. The automatic milking system according to claim 1, wherein said automatic milking system is a fully automatic robotic milking system for automatic application of teat cups to an animal. 4. The automatic milking system according to claim 2, wherein said automatic milking system comprises vacuum measurement means for measuring a vacuum level in the milking system, at least one of said vacuum system parameters is relating to a vacuum level as measured in said vacuum pump arrangement, and said milking system controller comprises means for taking an appropriate measure if the difference between said vacuum measured in the milking system and said vacuum as indicated by said parameter is greater than a predetermined value. 5. The device according to claim 2, wherein said milking system controller is arranged to receive said vacuum system parameters and take an appropriate measure if any of said vacuum system parameters deviates more than a predetermined value from a given set point. 6. The device according to claim 1, wherein said message is an order to increase or decrease the speed of a vacuum pump motor. 7. The device according to claim 6, wherein said message is sent a predetermined time before a respective increase or decrease of air in-flow to the milking system is expected. 8. An automatic milking system comprising a vacuum pump arrangement, wherein said automatic milking system comprises a milking system controller arranged to control milking system parameters and said vacuum pump arrangement comprises a vacuum system controller for controlling vacuum system parameters, comprising: communication means coupled to said vacuum system controller and to said milking system controller for establishing communication between said vacuum system controller and said milking system controller, said milking system controller comprises signal transmitting means for transmitting a message to said vacuum system controller, said vacuum system controller comprises signal receiving means for receiving said message from said milking system controller, and said vacuum system controller is arranged to change at least one of said vacuum system parameters depending on said received message, wherein said milking system controller is arranged to send a message to said vacuum system controller in dependence of a first milking system parameter, said message is an order to increase the vacuum level from a stand-by vacuum level, which is substantially lower than the milking vacuum level, and said first milking system parameter is a parameter indicating that an animal is present in the automatic milking system. 9. The automatic milking system according to claim 8, wherein said vacuum system controller comprises signal transmitting means for sending a message relating to at least one of said vacuum system parameters to said milking system controller, and said milking system controller comprises signal receiving means for receiving said message. 10. The automatic milking system according to claim 9, wherein said automatic milking system comprises vacuum measurement means for measuring a vacuum level in the milking system, at least one of said vacuum system parameters is relating to a vacuum level as measured in said vacuum pump arrangement, and said milking system controller comprises means for taking an appropriate measure if the difference between said vacuum measured in the milking system and said vacuum as indicated by said parameter is greater than a predetermined value. 11. The device according to claim 9, wherein said milking system controller is arranged to receive said vacuum system parameters and take an appropriate measure if any of said vacuum system parameters deviates more than a predetermined value from a given set point. 12. The automatic milking system according to claim 8, wherein said automatic milking system is a fully automatic robotic milking system for automatic application of teat cups to an animal. 13. The device according to claim 8, wherein said message is an order to increase or decrease the speed of a vacuum pump motor. 14. The device according to claim 13, wherein said message is sent a predetermined time before a respective increase or decrease of air in-flow to the milking system is expected. 15. An automatic milking system comprising a vacuum pump arrangement, wherein said automatic milking system comprises a milking system controller arranged to control milking system parameters and said vacuum pump arrangement comprises a vacuum system controller for controlling vacuum system parameters, comprising: communication means coupled to said vacuum system controller and to said milking system controller for establishing communication between said vacuum system controller and said milking system controller, said milking system controller comprises signal transmitting means for transmitting a message to said vacuum system controller, said vacuum system controller comprises signal receiving means for receiving said message from said milking system controller, and said vacuum system controller is arranged to change at least one of said vacuum system parameters depending on said received message, wherein said automatic milking system comprises several milking points, each of which comprises a cluster of teat cups and a milking point controller, each of said clusters of teat cups is arranged to be applied to teats of a respective animal, each of said milking point controllers being arranged to initiate take-off of said teat cups from said teats, and each of said milking point controllers being connected to said milking system controller. 16. The device according to claim 15, wherein said milking system controller is arranged to send a message to said vacuum system controller ordering said vacuum system controller to reduce the vacuum level to a stand-by vacuum level if each of said milking point controllers reports that no animal is present for milking. 17. The automatic milking system according to claim 15, wherein said vacuum system controller comprises signal transmitting means for sending a message relating to at least one of said vacuum system parameters to said milking system controller, and said milking system controller comprises signal receiving means for receiving said message. 18. The automatic milking system according to claim 17, wherein said automatic milking system comprises vacuum measurement means for measuring a vacuum level in the milking system, at least one of said vacuum system parameters is relating to a vacuum level as measured in said vacuum pump arrangement, and said milking system controller comprises means for taking an appropriate measure if the difference between said vacuum measured in the milking system and said vacuum as indicated by said parameter is greater than a predetermined value. 19. The device according to claim 17, wherein said milking system controller is arranged to receive said vacuum system parameters and take an appropriate measure if any of said vacuum system parameters deviates more than a predetermined value from a given set point. 20. The automatic milking system according to claim 15, wherein said automatic milking system is a fully automatic robotic milking system for automatic application of teat cups to an animal. 21. The device according to claim 15, wherein said message is an order to increase or decrease the speed of a vacuum pump motor. 22. The device according to claim 21, wherein said message is sent a predetermined time before a respective increase or decrease of air in-flow to the milking system is expected. 