A tentacle-like manipulator has a resiliently longitudinally extensible, laterally bendable elongate member, e.g. an inflatable bellows or a helical compression spring-like member, with an end effector mounting on one end thereof. Tendon-like tension members extend along said elongate member and are spaced apart from one another around said elongate member, one end of each of said tension members being to said elongate member at said one end thereof. Guides spaced apart along and secured to said elongate member and slidably engage said tension members for guiding said tension members relative to said elongate member. Further tension members extend along only a portion of the length of the elongate member and are secured to the elongate member at a location intermediate the ends of the elongate member. Winches are used to wind and unwind the tension members to correspondingly control the length and the bending of the elongate member.
Claims I claim: 1. A tentacle-like manipulator, comprising: a resilient laterally bendable elongate member having a proximal end and a distal end; said elongate member being inflatable and being longitudinally extensible and contractible in response to pressure variations within said elongate member; means for varying the pressure within said elongate member and thereby longitudinally extending and contracting said elongate member; an end effector mounting provided at said distal end; a plurality of flexible tension members spaced around said elongate member and extending along said elongate member from said proximal end; means securing one end of said tension members to said elongate member at a distance from said proximal end; a plurality of guides spaced apart along and secured to said elongate member and slidably engaging said tension members for guiding said tension members relative to said elongate member; and tensioning means for adjustably tensioning said tension members by different amounts and thereby bending said elongate member. 2. A tentacle-like manipulator as claimed in claim 1, wherein said elongate member comprises a bellows having a plurality of bellows chambers located in succession along said elongate member. 3. A tentacle-like manipulator as claimed in claim 2, wherein said bellows chambers each comprise at least three chamber segments arranged around an axis, each of said chamber segments comprising a radially outwardly extending protrusion, said protrusion comprising four chamber wall portions, said four chamber wall portions merging with one another along a pair of first fold lines which extend peripherally of said bellows chamber and a pair of second fold lines which extend radially of said bellows chamber, said chamber wall portions of each of said chamber segments merging with respective ones of said wall portions of adjacent ones of said chamber segments along pairs of third fold lines which extend radially of said bellows chamber, said chamber wall portions of each of said chambers merging with said chamber wall portions of adjacent chambers along pairs of fourth fold lines, said fourth fold lines being parallel to and spaced inwardly of respective ones of said first fold lines and said first, second and third pairs of fold lines meeting at radially outermost apexes of said chamber segments, said bellows actuator being expansible and contractible along the axis by flexure of said wall portions relative to one another about said first, second, third and fourth fold lines in response to pressure changes within said bellows chamber. 4. A tentacle-like manipulator as claimed in claim 2, wherein said bellows tapers towards said distal end along the length thereof. 5. A tentacle-like manipulator as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for varying the pressure in said elongate member include a source of pressurized fluid, a fluid duct connecting said source to the interior of said bellows and a servo valve for regulating the flow of pressurized fluid through said duct. 6. A tentacle-like manipulator as claimed in claim 1, wherein said tension members comprise first flexible tension members extending along said elongate member to the distal end thereof and second flexible tension members extending along said elongate member to an intermediate portion thereof located between said proximal end and said distal end. 7. A tentacle-like manipulator as claimed in claim 6, wherein said tensioning means comprise a plurality of winch drums respectively associated with said first and second tension members and electric motors for rotating said winch drums and thereby winding and unwinding said first and second tension members onto and from said winch drums. 