A light weight extruder (20) is suitable for high production, in-line extrusion of flowable materials with high precision in the placement and control of the extruded material. The extruder uses a high torque hydraulic motor (72) to drive a feed screw (88) in dispensing highly viscous but flowable material through an extrusion die (126) of preselected configuration. A plurality of heating bands (114-118) surrounding the barrel (86) of the extruder provide precise control over the material temperature at the point of extrusion. In an alternate embodiment, an injection nozzle (120a) is provided with a plurality of independently controllable extrusion dies (128, 130, 132). The extruder is sufficiently light and manipulable such that it can be mounted on the end of the arm of a robot (122).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for extruding a highly viscous material onto a substrate, comprising: a housing defining an interior and an inlet opening to the interior at a first end of the housing for receiving material to be extruded and an outlet opening to the interior at a second end or the housing for exiting extruded material; a screw rotatably supported within said housing interior and extending between the first end of the housing and the second end of the housing for displacing and compressing the material within the housing; a nozzle arrangement including an extrusion die disposed at the second end of the housing defining a die opening through which material is extruded from the housing interior onto the substrate; hydraulically operated motor means connecting with the screw; means on the housing for heating said material to a desired temperature; a pressure sensor carried on the housing at the second end for generating a signal indicative of the pressure of the material at the second end; and a controller electrically connected to the hydraulically operated motor means and to the pressure sensor, for generating a control signal in response to the pressure signal and transmitting the control signal to the hydraulically operated motor means. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, including: an inlet tube extending from the inlet opening; and a swivel feed tube connection fixed to one of an end of a feed tube and an end of the inlet tube and enveloping and rotatably engaging the other of the end of the feed tube and the end of the inlet tube wherein the feed tube end can swivel with respect to the inlet tube. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, including a remote continuous feed system having: a remote reservoir for retaining solid pellets of material; a vacuum source; a vacuum draw tube disposed between the remote reservoir and the vacuum source; and a feed tube disposed between the vacuum source and the inlet opening. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, including a discrete localized feed system having a hopper connected to the inlet opening of the extruder with a volume of pellets dispensed into the hopper sufficient for a particular application. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said nozzle arrangement includes a selectively positionable plurality of extrusion dies. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, including: a feed guide establishing a position of a part for movement past the extrusion die; and a guide shoe fixed relative to the extrusion die and operably engaging the part for movement therealong. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, including: a hot air blower located downstream of the extrusion die relative to a direction of movement between a substrate and the extrusion die and directing a flow of hot air at the substrate material. 8. The apparatus of claim 5, including a robotic mechanism having a selectively pivotal arm electrically connected to the controller and responsive thereto to which the housing is mounted. 