A robotic surgical system includes a multiple degree of freedom manipulator arm having a surgical tool. The arm is coupled to a controller for controllably positioning the surgical tool within a three dimensional coordinate system. The system further includes a safety monitoring processor for determining the position of the surgical tool in the three dimensional coordinate system relative to a volumetric model. The volumetric model may be represented as a constructive solid geometry (CSG) tree data structure. The system further includes an optical tracking camera system disposed for imaging a region of space that includes at least a portion of the manipulator arm. An output of the camera system is coupled to the processor that processes the volumetric model for determining if the surgical tool is positioned outside of the volumetric model. The system further includes a strain gage for detecting slippage in three dimensions between an immobilized tissue, such as bone, and a reference point. The system also includes multiple and redundant safety features for suspending a motion of the surgical tool to prevent the tool from operating outside of the predetermined volume of space.
Claims Having thus described our invention, what we claim as new, and desire to secure by Letters Patent is: 1. A method of surgically removing a quantity of tissue from a patient, the tissue being removed from a region having a predetermined three dimensional shape, the method comprising the steps of: representing the three dimensional shape as a volumetric model or as a portion of a volumetric model; determining a location of the volumetric model relative to the tissue that is to be removed; and operating a multiple degree of freedom manipulator arm means having a surgical tool coupled thereto such that the tissue is removed, the step of operating including the steps of: monitoring an output of a force sensor means that is coupled to the surgical tool; detecting a position of the manipulator arm means; determining a position of the surgical tool relative to the detected position of the manipulator arm means in accordance with a predetermined transformation function; processing the volumetric model for determining if the determined position of the surgical tool is outside of the volumetric model; and suspending a further movement of the surgical tool if the surgical tool is determined to be positioned outside of the volumetric model or if the step of monitoring the output of the force sensor means indicates that a sensed force has exceeded a first predetermined threshold. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of operating includes an additional step of monitoring an output of a strain gage means to determine if a movement of the patient has occurred and suspending a further movement of the surgical tool if a movement is detected. 3. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of monitoring includes an additional step of de-energizing the manipulator arm means if a force is measured that exceeds a second, higher predetermined threshold. 4. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of operating includes an additional step of periodically monitoring an operational status of the manipulator arm means and suspending a further movement of the surgical tool if the operational status is determined to be less than optimum. 5. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the tissue includes bone tissue, wherein the volumetric model has a shape representative of a shape of a prosthetic implant, and wherein the step of representing the three dimensional shape as a volumetric model includes a step of: selecting a shape of a prosthetic implant from a library of prosthetic implant shapes; and wherein the step of determining a location of the volumetric model relative to the tissue that is to be removed includes a step of: interactively determining a position of the selected prosthetic implant shape relative to images of the bone tissue. 6. A method as set forth in claim 5 and including an additional step of storing data for use during the step of processing, the stored data being expressive of the dimensions and shape of the selected prosthetic implant and data expressive of the determined position. 7. A method as set forth in claim 5 wherein the step of operating further includes a step of displaying in succession cross-sectional images of the bone tissue each having a corresponding cross-sectional view of the selected prosthetic implant superimposed thereon, a specific one of the cross-sectional bone tissue images being selected for display as a function of the position of the surgical tool relative to the volumetric model. 8. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the tissue includes bone tissue, wherein the volumetric model has a shape representative of a shape of a prosthetic implant, and wherein the step of representing the three dimensional shape as a volumetric model includes a step of: defining a shape of a prosthetic implant as a function at least of the shape of the bone tissue; and wherein the step of determining a location of the volumetric model relative to the tissue that is to be removed includes a step of: interactively determining a position of the defined prosthetic implant shape relative to images of the bone tissue. 9. A method of preparing a cavity within a tissue to receive a prosthetic implant, the method comprising the steps of: representing the prosthetic implant as a volumetric model or as a portion of a volumetric model; determining a location of the volumetric model relative to the tissue within which the prosthetic implant is to be implanted; and operating a multiple degree of freedom manipulator arm means having a surgical tool coupled thereto such that a cavity is prepared within the tissue to receive the prosthetic implant therein, the step of operating including the steps of: monitoring an output of a force sensor means that is coupled to the surgical tool; imaging a portion of the manipulator arm means during the operation thereof so as to determine a position of the manipulator arm means within a three-dimensional coordinate system; determining a position of the surgical tool, relative to the determined position of the manipulator arm means, in accordance with a predetermined transformation function; processing the volumetric model for determining if the determined position of the surgical tool is outside of the volumetric model; and suspending a further movement of the surgical tool if the surgical a tool is determined to be positioned outside of the volumetric model or if the step of monitoring the output of the force sensor means indicates that a sensed force has exceeded a first predetermined threshold. 10. A method as set forth in claim 9 wherein the step of operating includes an additional step of monitoring an output of a strain gage means that is coupled to the tissue so as to detect a movement of the tissue; and suspending a further movement of the surgical tool if a movement is detected. 11. A method as set forth in claim 9 wherein the step of monitoring includes an additional step of de-energizing the manipulator arm means if a force is measured that exceeds a second predetermined threshold, the second predetermined threshold being greater than the first predetermined threshold. 12. A method as set forth in claim 9 wherein the tissue includes bone tissue, and wherein the step of monitoring includes a step detecting if a position of the surgical tool transitions between trabecular bone and cortical bone. 13. A method as set forth in claim 9 wherein the tissue includes bone tissue, and wherein the step of representing the prosthetic implant as a volumetric model includes a step of: selecting a shape of a prosthetic implant from a library of prosthetic implant shapes; and wherein the step of determining a location of the volumetric model relative to the tissue includes a step of: interactively determining a desired position of the selected prosthetic implant shape relative to images of the bone tissue. 14. A method as set forth in claim 13 and including an additional step of storing data for use during the step of processing, the stored data being expressive of the dimensions and shape of the selected prosthetic implant and data expressive of the determined position. 15. A method as set forth in claim 13 wherein the step of operating further includes a step of displaying in succession cross-sectional images of the bone tissue each having a corresponding cross-sectional view of the selected prosthetic implant superimposed thereon, a specific one of the cross-sectional bone tissue images being selected for display as a function of a current position of the surgical tool relative to the volumetric model. 16. A method as set forth in claim 9 wherein the tissue includes bone tissue, and wherein the step of representing the prosthetic implant as a volumetric model includes a step of: defining a shape of a prosthetic implant as a function at least of the shape of the bone tissue; and wherein the step of determining a location of the volumetric model relative to the tissue includes a step of: interactively determining a desired position of the defined prosthetic implant shape relative to images of the bone tissue. 