An actuator system for linear movement comprises an array of movable control wires, a spring-loaded, axially telescoping assembly and two bi-directional one-way clutch assemblies fitted to the ends of the telescoping assembly, the reciprocating compressive action of which operates in concert with the clutch assemblies whereby the wire is alternatingly pulled in one assembly while being ratcheted by the other to achieve incremental linear motion in one selected direction or the other. The telescoping assembly is compressed by a mechanical motion derived preferably from one of several alternate solid state electrical-to-motion transducers. The actuator system is built using the change in length of solid material. The bigger the actuator's scale, the more powerful the actuator. Conversely, since the dimensional changes take place in the material on a molecular level it suggests that very small units could be built in the micro-actuator size. The very large advantage of the microsystem of the present invention is derived from the simplicity of construction. There are no micro-motors or gears or shafts or bearings to build.
Claims I claim: 1. An actuator system controllably producing linear movement, said system comprising: an array of elongated control elements extending parallel to each other in an axial direction; a movable member; drive means for selectively reciprocating said movable member in said axial direction; each of said control elements passing through said movable member so as to allow free relative movement therebetween as said movable member is reciprocated; and selectively actuatable coupling means to selectively couple one or more of any of said control elements to said movable member to cause movement of said selectively coupled element with said movable member, said coupling means allowing free movement of each of said control elements whenever said coupling means is not activated with respect to said control element. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein said control elements comprise wires. 3. The system according to claim 2 wherein said wires are fluted and said coupling means comprises a series of one-way clutches carried by said movable member, each having balls engaging the flutes of a respective wire, said one-way ball clutches each selectively operable to grip said associated wire to be coupled thereto in one direction of axial movement of said movable member. 4. The system according to claim 1 further including a fixed member fixed relative to said movable member and said control elements, said fixed member axially spaced from said control member, said driver means causing said fixed and movable members to move axially relative to each other during said reciprocation of said movable member. 5. The system according to claim 4 wherein said driver means comprises an array of memory wire elements interconnecting said fixed and movable members, said memory wire elements configured to shrink and tend to bring said fixed and movable members towards each other from an initial axially spaced position when heated, and means for selectively energizing said memory wire elements to be heated to cause said movement, and return spring means restoring said fixed and movable members to said initial axially spaced position after de-energizing said memory wire elements. 6. The system according to claim 4 wherein said driver means comprises a stack of piezoelectric elements interconnecting said fixed and movable members, said piezoelectric elements when energized causing relative axial movement therebetween, and further includes means for selectively energizing said stack of piezoelectric elements. 7. The system according to claim 4 wherein said driver means comprises magnetostrictive elements interconnecting said fixed and movable members, drawn together when energized, and means for energizing said magnetostrictive elements. 8. The system according to claim 1 wherein said coupling means includes means for selectively coupling any individual or group of control elements to said movable member in either axial direction of reciprocation of said members, whereby said control element or groups of control elements can be incrementally advanced in either direction. 9. The system according to claim 8 wherein said coupling means comprised pairs of oppositely acting selectively activated one-way clutches associated with each control element and means for selectively activating one or more of said clutches of each pair to cause movement of an associated control element or elements in either axial direction. 10. The actuator system according to claim 1 further including a fixed member axially spaced from said movable member and also receiving said control elements freely passing therethrough, and further including coupling means associated with said fixed member and each of said control elements allowing holding of one or a group of said control elements as said movable member is reciprocated by said driver means. 11. The actuator system according to claim 10 wherein said coupling means associated with each fixed and movable member includes selectively activated one-way clutch means coupling said one or a group of control elements to either said fixed or movable member in either axial direction during reciprocation of said movable member. 12. The actuator system according to claim 11 wherein said one way clutch means comprises pairs of oppositely acting one-way clutches associated with each control element mounted to each of said fixed and movable members, and means for selectively activating each of said clutches independently of the other clutches to enable gripping of each control element to be coupled to either said fixed or said movable member during reciprocation of said movable member in either axial direction. 