A workpiece handling system especially for carrying out computer-controlled welding operations has a workpiece table which is rotatable between indexed stations in one direction and a coaxially-mounted support for work-performing apparatus which is rotatable in both directions, either with or contra to the workpiece table. While workpieces are being loaded and unloaded at one station, work can be performed at or during indexed movement between other stations, the work-performing apparatus then rotating contra to the workpiece table to find the next workpiece to be worked on.
Claims I claim: 1. Workpiece handling apparatus comprising a workpiece table which is rotatable between indexed stations in one rotational direction and a coaxially-mounted support for work-performing apparatus which is rotatable in both rotational directions. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, in which the workpiece table includes a plurality n of workpiece stations arranged equi-angularly about the rotation axis and the table is indexed for rotation in (360/n).degree. increments or in multiples thereof. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2, in which n is 4. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1, in which the work-performing apparatus is computer-controlled and is programmed to hunt in one direction for a workpiece to be worked, the workpiece table being movable in the other direction and work being performable at or during movement between indexed stations. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1, in which workpiece positions of the workpiece table comprise apertures over which a workpiece pallet may be placed, the apparatus support including pallet raising and lowering means which are operative through the apertures to raise a pallet to maintain its positional relationship to the work-performing apparatus irrespective of whether the table and apparatus support are in indexed movement or are stationary, the pallet raising and lowering means being retractable below the workpiece table to permit relative rotational movement between the workpiece table and work-performing apparatus support. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1, in which the work-performing apparatus can identify the nature of the workpiece according to a code and can carry out a pre-determined working operation thereon according to the identity of the workpiece. 7. Apparatus according to claim 1, in which the work-performing apparatus comprises a computer-controllable welding robot. 8. Apparatus according to claim 7, in which the robot is centrally mounted about the rotational axis of the table and support, the robot including the torch head and wire feeder, the weld set including the power supply unit, wire container and water cooler being mounted beneath the support. 9. A method of handling and performing work on a workpiece, the method comprising supplying a workpiece to an indexed station in a first direction on a rotatable workpiece table, performing a working operation thereon by means of work-performing apparatus mounted for rotation about the same axis as the workpiece table, continuing if necessary to perform the working operation during indexed rotation of the workpiece table and work-performing apparatus in the said first direction to the next or a subsequent station, and at the completion of the working operation causing the workpiece table and work-performing apparatus to move relative to one another in a second direction in readiness for the next working operation. 