The present invention provides a dynamic model parameter identification system consisting of a parameter classifying part and a motion planning part. The parameter classifying part approximates the respective links forming the manipulator by means of a symmetrical and homogeneous virtual solid link, calculates the inertial parameters, and finally classifies the calculated inertial parameters into parameter groups. The motion planning part calculates the condition number for the parameter coefficient sub-matrix, and calculates the number of equilibriums which is shown by the quotient of the maximum and minimum values of the vector normal of the rows of the coefficient sub-matrix. The motion planning section then sets the motion for parameter identification so that the condition number and number of equilibriums are both below predetermined values. Therefore, it is possible to identify the dynamic parameters of a robotic manipulator with a high degree of accuracy and without carrying out numerous trial-and-error experiments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A dynamic model parameter identification system for manipulators having links and a joint, said system comprising: parameter classifying means for classifying a plurality of parameters, said parameter classifying means approximates said links by means of symmetrical and homogeneous virtual solid links, calculates the inertial parameters of said manipulator, and classifies the calculated inertial parameters into groups according to influence on control of said manipulator; motion planning means for determining motions of said manipulator, said motion planning means calculates the condition number for parameter coefficient sub-matrix formed by terms corresponding to the parameters under consideration, calculates the number of equilibriums from the quotient of the maximum and minimum values of the vector normal of the rows of said coefficient sub-matrix, and determines the motion for parameter identification so that said condition number and said number of equilibriums are both below predetermined values; driving means for driving said manipulator according to said motion planned by said motion planning means; motion measuring means for measuring motion of said manipulator and driving force applied to said manipulator; and parameter estimating means for estimating parameters based on a linear equation consisting of unknown vectors, drive torque vectors and parameter coefficient matrix consisting of motion measurement. 2. A dynamic model parameter identification system according to claim 1 wherein said inertial parameters of said manipulator are calculated from inertial matrix components of each said virtual solid link and from relative configuration of said links. 3. A dynamic model parameter identification system according to claim 1 wherein inertial parameters having dominant effects on said torque are used to form said parameter coefficient sub-matrix. 4. A dynamic model parameter identification system according to claim 3 wherein said dominant parameters are diagonal terms of first order moment and inertial tensor matrix. 5. A dynamic model parameter identification system according to claim 4 wherein said parameter coefficient sub-matrix is formed by said dominant parameters and friction coefficients of joints. 6. A dynamic model parameter identification system for manipulators having links and a joint, said system comprising: parameter classifying means for classifying a plurality of parameters, said parameter classifying means approximates said links by means of symmetrical and homogeneous virtual solid links, calculates the inertial parameters of said manipulator, and classifies the calculated inertial parameters into groups according to influence on control of said manipulator; motion planning means for determining motions of said manipulator, said motion planning means calculates the condition number for parameter coefficient sub-matrix formed by terms corresponding to the parameters under consideration, calculates the number of equilibriums from the quotient of the maximum and minimum values of the vector normal of the rows of said coefficient sub-matrix, and determines the motion for parameter identification so that said condition number and said number of equilibriums are both below predetermined values; driving means for driving said manipulator according to said motion planned by said motion planning means; motion measuring means for measuring motion of said manipulator and driving force applied to said manipulator; and parameter estimating means for estimating parameters based on a linear equation consisting of unknown vectors, drive torque vectors and parameter coefficient matrix consisting of motion measurement, wherein said inertial parameters of said manipulator are calculated from inertial matrix components of each said virtual solid link and from relative configuration of said links, and inertial parameters having dominant effects on said torque are used to form said parameter coefficient sub-matrix, said parameter coefficient sub-matrix is formed by said dominant parameters and friction coefficients of joints. 7. A dynamic model parameter identification system according to either one of claims 1 or 2, wherein said driving means is a high geared electric motor. 8. A dynamic model parameter identification system according to either one of claims 1 or 2, wherein said manipulators are robotic manipulators for industrial use. 