The present invention provides a break-away clutch for a robot end-of-arm tooling device for placement between a robot and a tooling device. The break-away clutch comprises a housing having a forward surface, a stud member, and a top plate having an underside facing surface. The housing has one end closed to form a cavity. The cavity holds a compression spring, and a piston that encapsulates the spring. The stud member has a ball end at one end resting on the piston and a distal end attached to the end-of-arm tooling device. The piston moves axially within the cavity and reacts to movement of the stud member. Notches located on the stud member, and pins located on the underside facing surface of the top plate translate rotational movement of the stud member to axial movement of the piston. A sensing device senses axial movement of the piston when the piston compresses the spring, and send a signal to the robot or end-of-arm tooling device if movement is beyond a predetermined amount.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A breakaway clutch for an end-of-arm tooling device, said clutch comprising: a cylindrical housing, having one closed end forming a cavity, said cavity having a rear end wall; a stud member, comprising: a rod releasably connected to the end-of-arm tooling device, and a ball end; a compression spring located in the cavity at the rear end wall; a piston in the cavity capable of axial movement, said piston encapsulating the spring against the rear end wall, wherein the spring biases the piston to a normal position; a top plate for restraining the ball end in the cavity against the piston; a means for aligning the clutch to the end-of-arm tooling device; a means for connecting the clutch to the end-of-arm tooling device; a means to translate rotational movement of the stud member to axial movement of the piston; and a means for sensing axial movement of the piston in other than the normal position. 2. A breakaway clutch for an end-of-arm tooling device, comprising: a cylindrical housing having one end closed thereby forming a cavity along an interior sidewall and end surface, said housing having an exterior surface; a piston located within the housing cavity and capable of axial movement along the interior sidewall, said piston having an inwardly tapered internal end wall; a compression spring biasing the piston to a normal position; a sensing means for sensing movement of the piston in other than said normal position; a stud member having a rod at one end and a ball end at a distal end, said rod releasably connected to the end-of-arm tooling device, said ball end engaging with the inwardly tapered internal end wall of the piston; a circular top plate having a concentric aperture, a cavity wall, a side wall, an underside exterior facing surface, an underside interior facing surface and an exposed face; and an alignment means for aligning the housing, stud member, and the top plate together, whereby the alignment means provides a means to translate rotational movement of the stud member to axial movement of the piston. 3. The alignment means of claim 2 comprising: a notch located on the ball end of the stud member; and a pin located on the underside interior facing surface of the top plate, wherein the pin rests in the notch. 4. The alignment means of claim 2 wherein a plurality of the radial pins located on the underside interior facing surface of the top plate are spaced at equidistant intervals and a single radial pin is spaced offset from the equidistant interval. 5. The alignment means of claim 4 further comprising a plurality of notches on the ball end spaced to correspond with the plurality of radial pins. 6. The breakaway clutch of claim 2 wherein the cavity wall of the top plate is sized to fit snugly against the interior sidewall of the housing, and the underside facing surface of the top plate is sized to set flush against the exterior surface of the housing. 7. A breakaway clutch for an end-of-arm tooling device, comprising: a cylindrical housing having one end closed thereby forming a cavity along an interior sidewall and end surface, said housing having an exterior surface, the exterior surface having a dowel hole; a piston located within the housing cavity and capable of axial movement along the interior sidewall, said piston having an inwardly tapered internal end wall; a compression spring biasing the piston to a normal position; a sensing means for sensing movement of the piston in other than the normal position, said sensing means communicating to an electrical connector, wherein the electrical connector sends an alarm if movement is beyond a predetermined amount; a stud member having a rod at one end and a ball end at a distal end, said rod threadably connected to the end-of-arm tooling device, said ball end engaging with the inwardly tapered internal end wall of the piston; a circular top plate having a concentric aperture, a cavity wall, a side wall, an underside exterior facing surface and an underside interior facing surface, and said underside exterior facing surface having a dowel extending therefrom, wherein the cavity wall of the top plate is sized to fit snugly against the interior sidewall of the housing, the underside exterior facing surface of the top plate is sized to set flush against the exterior surface of the housing, and said dowel hole in the exterior surface is sized for receiving the dowel from the underside exterior facing surface of the top plate; an alignment means for aligning the stud member and the top plate together, said alignment means comprising: a notch located on the ball end of the stud member; and a pin located on the underside interior facing surface of the top plate, wherein the pin rests in the notch when the piston is in said normal position. 8. The ball end of claim 7 comprising an upper radial surface and a lower radial surface, wherein the upper radial surface has a radial dimension such that the upper radial surface is adjacent to the cavity wall, and the lower radial surface engages with the inwardly tapered internal end wall of the piston. 9. The stud member of claim 7 wherein the rod has one side partially flattened for proper alignment to the end-of-arm tooling device. 