Apparatus and method for supporting at least a portion of an article while the article is being formed. A source of self-adhering particles is directed by a particle jetting device, or the like, to a predetermined position in a controlled environment to form the article. A support structure is carried in the controlled environment for substantially rigidly supporting at least a portion of the article during the formation of the article (by build-up of the self-adhering particles). The support structure is a fluid which changes state to a solid responsive to an electrical charge and reverts back to a fluid responsive to removal of the electrical charge.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for designing an article in two dimension and then reproducing the article in three dimensions wherein said article requires a support means for support of at least a portion thereof during the reproduction, said method comprising the steps of: generating a data file of three dimensions on a computer machine representing the three dimensional design of said article in a coordinate system; providing a controlled environment; providing a source of mass particles; directing said particles to the three-dimensional coordinates of said article of said coordinate system; joining said particles to one other at said coordinates beginning at a predetermined point of origin of said article in said coordinate system; providing a support material for supporting engagement with at least a portion of said article during the reproduction thereof in three dimensions, said support disposed for withdrawal from said supporting engagement with said article responsive to change of state of said support material subsequent to formation of said article, said change of state being accomplished by application of an electrical stimulus to said support material to change said material from a first phase to a second phase and removing said electrical stimulus to change said state from said second phase back to said first phase. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein said material is an electrorheological fluid. 3. Apparatus for reproducing a physical three-dimensional article from a data file generated on a computer machine on which said article was designed comprising: a data file of three-dimensional coordinate information which corresponds to the design of said article in a three-dimensional coordinate system and space; a controlled environment; a source of mass particles; directional means for directing said mass particles to said coordinates in said coordinates within said controlled environment; directional control means for controlling said directional means in response to said coordinate information in said data file; means for joining said mass particles together at said coordinates to physically construct said article according to the information provided by said data file; support material means carried in said controlled environment for engaged, supporting relation with at least a portion of said article during the physical construction thereof; and environment control means for controlling the environment of said controlled environment to effect physical and chemical changes in said support means to cause said support means to withdraw from said engaged, supporting relation with said article subsequent to formation thereof by changing the state of said support material means from a fluid state to a substantially solid state and back to said fluid state. 4. Apparatus as in claim 3 wherein said controlled environment is defined by a housing for enclosing and supporting said article therein. 5. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein said housing is disposed for support of said environmental control means thereon. 6. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein said support means is an electrotheological fluid. 7. Apparatus as set forth in claim 6 wherein said environmental control means is carried in said housing in contact with said electrorheological fluid. 8. Apparatus as in claim 7 wherein said environmental control means is defined by electrode means disposed for energization to apply an electrical charge to said electrorheological fluid for said electrorheological fluid from a liquid state to a substantially solid state and for changing said electrorheological fluid back to a liquid state responsive to deenergization of said electrode means. 9. Apparatus including a support means for support of at least a portion of an article formed by depositing self-adhering particles upon each other in successive layers, said apparatus comprising: a source of self-adhering particles; particle injection means for directing said particles to a predetermined position in a controlled environment, said particles being joined together at said predetermined position responsive to injection thereof by said particle injection means to form an article of manufacture; and support means disposed in said controlled environment for support of said particles during the build up of said particles while forming said article, said support means disposed for changing from a liquid state to a substantially solid state for substantially rigid support of article during said formation thereof, said support means disposed for changing from said solid state back to said liquid state subsequent to formation of said article, whereby said support means is withdrawn from the rigid supporting engagement with said article. 10. Apparatus as in claim 9 herein said controlled environment is defined by a housing for enclosing and supporting said article and said support means therein. 11. Apparatus set forth in claim 10 wherein said housing is disposed for support of said environmental control means thereon. 12. Apparatus as set forth in claim 11 wherein said support means is an electrorheological field. 13. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12 wherein said environmental control means is carried in said housing in contact with said electrorheological fluid. 14. Apparatus as in claim 13 wherein said environmental control means is defined by electrode means disposed for energization for applying an electrical charge to said electrorheological fluid support means for changing the state thereof from a liquid to a substantially solid state and for changing said support means back to a liquid responsive to deenergization of said electrode means. 