An apparatus for removing recyclable or other selected items from a load of mixed trash. An identifier generating a non-visual identifying signal is secured to the item and is used in conjunction with sensor devices to locate the position of the item anywhere within the load of mixed trash, to control the movement of the load along a conveyor to an extracting device, to control the movement of the extracting device and the operation of the extracting device so as to remove the selected item from the load without human intervention and under automated control.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for locating and separating recyclable items from a quantity of mixed trash comprising a number of recyclable items disposed within a quantity of non-recyclable items, said apparatus comprising in combination: a) identifying means coupled to each of said recyclable items, for providing respective non-visual identifying signals; b) first locating means for locating the position of a selected recyclable item within said quantity of mixed trash by detecting its respective non-visual identifying signal thereby providing a first location signal; c) extracting means for removing said selected recyclable item from said mixed trash; d) means for effecting relative motion between said quantity of mixed trash, said first locating means and said extracting means in response to said first location signal; e) second locating means for providing a second location signal in response to said non-visual identifying signal; and f) means for effecting further relative motion between said extracting means and said selected recyclable item in response to said second location signal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said identifying means comprises an electrical circuit. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first location signal represents the location of the selected recyclable item within the three dimensional space formed by a portion of said mixed quantity of trash. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said second location signal represents the distance between said extracting means and said selected recyclable item. 5. An apparatus for locating and removing a recyclable item disposed within a quantity of non-recyclable material in a manner such that said item cannot be located visually, said apparatus comprising: a) means coupled to said item, for providing a non-visual identifying signal; b) means for detecting the location of said item within said quantity of material in response to its respective non-visual identifying signal so as to provide a first location signal; c) means for effecting relative motion between said quantity of material, said detecting means and an extracting means for removing said item from said quantity of material; d) means coupled to said extracting means, for providing a second location signal with respect to said item; and e) means coupled to said detecting means, for controlling said relative motion of said item with respect to said extracting means in response to said first location signal and the position of said extracting means with respect to said item in response to said second location signal. 6. A method for locating and removing a recyclable item equipped to generate a non-visual identifying signal disposed within a quantity of non-recyclable material in a manner such that said item cannot be located visually, said method comprising the steps of: a) detecting the location of said item within said quantity of material in response to its respective non-visual identifying signal so as to provide a first location signal; b) effecting relative motion between said quantity of material and an extracting means for removing said item from said quantity of material; c) controlling said relative motion of said item with respect to said extracting means in response to said first location signal; d) providing a second location signal with respect to said item and said extracting means; and e) controlling the position of said extracting means with respect to said item in response to said second location signal. 