A moving coil linear motor having a central row of alternating, permanent magnets, with multi-phase, multi-pole coil assemblies located on both sides of the magnet row. Magnetic circuit completion material is located approximately the same height as the magnets and outside the coil assemblies. The coil assemblies are formed of a series of individual coils connected in a multi-phase, multi-pole relationship. At locations other than the coil assembly ends, the individual coils of a phase are adjacent and connected so that a current passes through them in a uniform direction. The individual coil total width is equal to the distance from a point on a magnet to the same point on the adjacent magnet, with the individual coil thickness being the total width divided by twice the number of phases. The coil assembly is coated with an epoxy to improve thermal mass and thermal conductivity and a phenolic to resist abrasion and the environment.
Claims We claim: 1. A linear motor, comprising: a plurality of magnets aligned in a row forming a magnet plane and having a longitudinal axis, said magnets aligned with alternating pole orientations on the faces of said magnet plane; first and second coil assemblies, each coil assembly located substantially in a plane substantially parallel to said magnet plane and on opposite sides of said magnet row, each of said coil assemblies formed of a plurality of individual coil loops having sides and ends, said loop sides being substantially perpendicular to the magnet row longitudinal axis and said loop ends being substantially parallel to the magnet row longitudinal axis, said individual coil loops connected to form at least two phases and at least two poles per phase; and first and second magnetic circuit completing means, each means located in a plane substantially parallel to said magnet plane and located outside of said coil assemblies. 2. The linear motor of claim 1, wherein said individual coil loop side thickness is approximately said individual coil loop total width divided by two tines the number of phases and wherein at least one individual coil loop forming a pole of a phase overlaps portions of said individual coil loops forming two poles of each other phase. 3. The linear motor of claim 1, wherein said individual coil loops side thickness is approximately the individual coil loop total width divided by two times the number of phases and wherein at locations other than the end of said coil assemblies, one side of an individual coil loop is located directly adjacent one side of another individual coil loop of the same phase. 4. The linear motor of claim 3, wherein said individual coil loops are connected so that an electric current passed through said individual coil loops of a phase is of the same polarity in adjacent individual coil loop sides. 5. The linear motor of claim 1, wherein said magnets are separated by a distance approximately equal to an individual coil loop side thickness. 6. The linear motor of claim 1, wherein said individual coil loop side length is approximately the same as the height of said magnets. 7. The linear motor of claim 6, wherein said magnetic circuit completing means height is approximately the same as the height of said magnets. 8. The linear motor of claim 1, wherein the ends of at least one phase of said individual coils loops form a plane angled from said magnet plane. 9. The linear motor of claim 8, further comprising: support means for said magnetic circuit completing means, said magnetic circuit completing means being located over said angled coil ends. 10. The linear motor of claim 1, wherein said coil assembly includes enameled wire forming the individual coil loops and an electrically nonconducting material, said nonconducting material providing the structural support for retaining the shape of said individual coil loops. 11. The linear motor of claim 10, wherein said coil assembly further includes a phenolic resin and paper coating. 12. The linear motor of claim 11, wherein said coil assembly further includes a metallic plate for attachment to an external material for improving heat exchange capabilities. 13. The linear motor of claim 1, further comprising: support means for said magnetic circuit completion means. 14. The linear motor of claim 13, further comprising support means for said magnets. 15. The linear motor of claim 14, when said magnet support means and said magnetic circuit completion means support means are connected. 16. The linear motor of claim 1, wherein there is no electrically conductive material in the volume inside said coil loops other than the wire forming said coil loops. .Iadd. 17. A linear motor, comprising: a plurality of magnets aligned in a row forming a magnet plane and having a longitudinal axis, said magnets aligned with alternating pole orientations on the faces of said magnet plane; a coil assembly located substantially in a plane substantially parallel to said magnet plane; said coil assembly being formed of a plurality of individual coil loops having sides and ends, said loop sides being substantially perpendicular to the magnet row longitudinal axis and said loop ends being substantially parallel to the magnet row longitudinal axis, said individual coil loops connected to form at least two phases and at least two poles per phase; and a magnetic circuit completing means located in a plane substantially parallel to said magnet plane and said coil assembly; wherein said individual coil loop thickness is approximately said individual coil loop total width divided by two times the number of phases and wherein at least one individual coil loop forming a pole of a phase overlaps portions of said individual coil loops forming two poles of each other. .Iaddend. .Iadd.18. A linear motor comprising: a plurality of magnets aligned in a row forming a magnet plane and having a longitudinal axis, said magnets aligned with alternating pole orientations on the faces of said magnet plane; a coil assembly located substantially in a plane substantially parallel to said magnet plane, said coil assembly being formed of a plurality of individual coil wire loops having sides and ends, said loop sides being substantially perpendicular to the magnet row longitudinal axis and said loop ends being substantially parallel to the magnet row longitudinal axis, said individual coil loops connected to form at least two phases and at least two poles per phase; and a magnetic circuit completing means located in a plane substantially parallel to said magnet plane and said coil assembly, wherein there is no electrically conductive material in the volume inside said coil loops other than the wire forming said coil loops. .Iaddend. .Iadd.19. The linear motor of claims 17 or 18, wherein at locations other than the end of said coil assemblies one side of an individual coil loop is located directly adjacent one side of another individual coil loop of the same phase. .Iaddend. .Iadd.20. The linear motor of claim 19, wherein said individual coil loops are connected so that an electric current passed through said individual coil loops of a phase is of the same polarity in adjacent individual coil loop sides. .Iaddend. .Iadd.21. The linear motor of claims 17 or 18, wherein said magnets are separated by a distance approximately equal to an individual coil loop side thickness. .Iaddend. .Iadd.22. The linear motor of claims 17 or 18, wherein said individual coil loop side length is approximately the same as the height of said magnets. .Iaddend. .Iadd.23. The linear motor of claim 22, wherein said magnetic circuit completing means height is approximately the same as the height of said magnets. .Iaddend. .Iadd.24. The linear motor of claims 17 or 18, wherein the ends of at least one phase of said individual coil loops form a plane angled from said magnet plane. .Iaddend. .Iadd.25. The linear motor of claim 24, further comprising: support means for said magnetic circuit completing means, said magnetic circuit completing means being located over said angled coil ends. .Iaddend. .Iadd.26. The linear motor of claims 17 or 18, wherein said coil assembly includes enameled wire forming the individual coil loops and an electrically nonconducting material, said nonconducting material providing the structural support for retaining the shape of said individual coil loops. .Iaddend. .Iadd.27. The linear motor of claim 26, wherein said coil assembly further includes a phenolic resin and paper coating. .Iaddend. .Iadd.28. The linear motor of claim 27, wherein said coil assembly further includes a metallic plate for attachment to an external material for improving heat exchange capabilities. .Iaddend. .Iadd.29. The linear motor of claims 17 or 18, further comprising: support means for said magnetic circuit completion means. .Iaddend. .Iadd.30. The linear motor of claim 29, further comprising support means for said magnets. .Iaddend. .Iadd.31. The linear motor of claim 30, wherein said magnet support means and said magnetic circuit completion means support means are connected. .Iaddend. .Iadd.32. A coil assembly for a linear motor, the linear motor including a plurality of magnets aligned in a row forming a magnet plane and having a longitudinal axis, the magnets aligned with alternating pole orientations on the faces of the magnet plane, the coil assembly comprising: a plurality of individual coil loops having sides and ends, said loop sides being substantially perpendicular to the magnet row longitudinal axis and said loop ends being substantially parallel to the magnet row longitudinal axis, said individual coil loops connected to form at least two phases and at least two poles per phase; wherein said individual coil loop thickness is approximately said individual coil loop total width divided by two times the number of phases and wherein at least one individual coil loop forming a pole of a phase overlaps portions of said individual coil loops forming two poles of each other phase. .Iaddend. .Iadd.33. A coil assembly for a linear motor, the linear motor including a plurality of magnets aligned in a row forming a magnet plane and having a longitudinal axis, the magnets aligned with alternating pole orientations on the faces of the magnet plane, the coil assembly comprising: a plurality of individual coil wire loops having sides and ends, said loop sides being substantially perpendicular to the magnet row longitudinal axis and said loop ends being substantially parallel to the magnet row longitudinal axis, said individual coil loops connected to form at least two phases and at least two poles per phase; wherein there is no electrically conductive material in the volume inside said coil loops other than the wire forming said coil loops. .Iaddend. .Iadd.34. The coil assembly of claims 32 or 33, wherein at locations other than the end of the coil assembly, one side of an individual coil loop is located directly adjacent one side of another individual coil loop of the same phase. .Iaddend. .Iadd.35. The coil assembly of claim 34, wherein said individual coil loops are connected so that an electric current passed through said individual coil loops of a phase is of the same polarity in adjacent individual coil loop sides. .Iaddend. .Iadd.36. The coil assembly of claims 32 or 33, wherein said individual coil loop side length is approximately the same as the height of said magnets. .Iaddend. .Iadd.37. The coil assembly of claims 32 or 33, wherein the ends of at least one phase of said individual coil loops form a plane angled from said magnet plane. .Iaddend. .Iadd.38. The coil assembly of claims 32 or 33, wherein the coil assembly includes enameled wire forming the individual coil loops and an electrically nonconducting material, said nonconducting material providing the structural support for retaining the shape of said individual coil loops. .Iaddend. .Iadd.39. The coil assembly of claim 38, wherein the coil assembly further includes a phenolic resin and paper coating. .Iaddend. .Iadd.40. The coil assembly of claim 39, wherein the coil assembly further includes a metallic plate for attachment to an external material for improving heat exchange capabilities. .Iaddend. 