A machine used to populate printed circuit boards (PCB) with surface mount electrical components, wherein an elongated PCB-carrying Y table intersects an elongated turret-carrying X oriented carriage structure intermediate a Y table component placement zone. Left and right vacuum quill-carrying turrets are independently movable along the carriage structure, the quills being movable in a Z direction, and the quills in each respective turret being adapted to pick-up selected components from respective left and right multiple feeder stations while the quills in the other turret simultaneously deposits components on a PCB supported on the Y table in the placement zone.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surface mount placement system, comprising: a PCB-carrying Y table movable along a Y axis, and having a PCB loading/unloading position adjacent one end of its travel, and a component mounting zone of positions adjacent its other end of travel; elongated turret carriage rail structure extending parallel to an X axis intersecting said Y axis intermediate said zone of positions; left and right component multiple-feeder stations, said stations being disposed on opposite sides of said Y axis and centered about said X axis, each station carrying a plurality of adjacent component-dispensing mechanisms left and right turrets independently movable along said X axis supported by said rail structure, each said turret being rotatable about its associated vertical central axis; and pick-up/placement means including a plurality of component pick up quills mounted in each of said turrets, each of said quills being selectively movable only along a Z axis and constrained from rotational motion relative to said turrets, for picking up selected electronic components from a selected associated one of said component-dispensing mechanisms and for placing selected ones of said components at desired locations on a PCB carried by said table while in said component mounting zone, said quills in one of said turrets adapted to pick up components while said quills in the other of said turrets are placing components. 2. The surface mount placement system of claim 1, wherein said rail structure is a common X rail structure associated with both of said turrets. 3. The surface mount placement system of claim 1, wherein each of said turrets support six of said quills. 4. The surface mount placement system of claim 1, wherein said Y table is movably supported on an elongated Y rail structure. 5. The surface mount placement system of claim 1, wherein said left turret is movable between the left-most component-dispensing mechanism and at least to the right-most edge of a PCB carried by said Y table, and wherein said right turret is movable between the right-most component-dispensing mechanism and at least to the left-most edge of a PCB carried by said Y table. 6. The surface mount placement system of claim 1, also comprising Y table movement means coupled to said Y table for controllably moving said Y table between said ends of travel. 7. The surface mount placement system of claim 1, also comprising turret movement means having independent left and right turret movement mechanisms coupled to an associated one of said turrets for independently controllably moving said turrets. 8. The surface mount placement system of claim 1, also comprising PCB conveyor means associated with said loading/unloading position for supplying to and carrying away PCB from said Y table. 9. The surface mount placement system of claim 8, wherein said conveyor means includes a left conveyor mechanism extending from the left edge of said Y table when said Y table is in its loading/unloading position, and includes a separate right conveyor mechanism extending from the right edge of said Y table when said Y table is in its loading/unloading position. 10. The surface mount placement system of claim 9, wherein said left and right conveyor mechanisms cooperatively move PCB in either the left or right directions. 11. The surface mount placement system of claim 6, wherein said Y table movement means includes an elongated Y lead screw extending in the Y direction, and a Y servo motor coupled to and rotating said Y lead screw, said Y lead screw being coupled to said Y table. 12. The surface mount placement system of claim 7, wherein said turret movement means includes a separate elongated X lead screw extending in the X direction and each such X lead screw being coupled to an associated one of said turrets, and associated X servo motors coupled to and independently rotating a different one of said X lead screws. 13. The surface mount placement system of claim 1, wherein said turrets are rotatable more than 360 degrees. 14. The surface mount placement system of claim 1, wherein said turrets are restrained from rotation while associated quills are in their pick-up and placement positions. 15. The surface mount placement system of claim 1, also comprising vision means including an upward looking video camera for determining the proper rotation angle of said turrets for placement, calculating the proper X position of said turrets, and proper Y position of said Y table. 16. The surface mount placement system of claim 15, wherein said vision means also includes illumination means including a ring of LEDs surrounding said upward looking video camera for illuminating the bottom of a component to be placed. 17. The surface mount placement system of claim 1, also comprising vision pattern recognition means and a downward looking video camera mounted on said turrets operatively coupled to said recognition means for locating PCB fiducials and calculating component location offsets in X, Y, and rotation angle. 