Pulsed light sources, such as a flashlamp or laser, remove coatings from substrates via the ablation method. A photodetector circuit, sensing reflected light from the surface being ablated, provides a feedback signal that indicates the reflected color intensity of the surface being ablated. The boundary between the coatings or substrate surfaces is distinguished by a change in color intensity between an upper coating and an undercoating, e.g., between a topcoat of paint and a primer coat of paint, or between a coating and the substrate surface itself. The color intensity determination thus provides a measure relative to when one coating has been removed and another coating remains. The photodetector circuit is also useful for providing feedback information relative to the quality of a stripped work surface for quality control or other purposes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for the selective removal of a material from a structure, comprising the steps of: (1) irradiating a target area of a structure having at least one layer of material formed on a substrate with a pulse of incident radiant energy generated by a flashlamp, said pulse of radiant energy having an intensity sufficient to ablate said layer of material; (2) monitoring radiant energy from said flashlamp that is reflected from said target area in order to sense the presence of a prescribed color intensity different from a known color intensity of the layer of material being ablated; and (3) controlling the irradiation of the target area with said radiant energy in step (1) as a function of the color intensity sensed in step (2). 2. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of monitoring the radiant energy reflected from said target area comprises detecting a prescribed wavelength within said reflected radiant energy, said prescribed wavelength being characteristic of said prescribed color intensity. 3. The method as set forth in claim 2 further including detecting the reflected radiant energy in a plurality of optical channels, determining if the reflected radiant energy in each of said plurality of optical channels contains a respective wavelength, and analyzing the respective wavelengths detected in each optical channel to ascertain whether said prescribed color intensity is present in the reflected radiant energy. 4. The method as set forth in claim 3 further including detecting the intensity of the incident radiant energy from said flashlamp that falls upon said target area, and normalizing the detected reflected radiant energy in each of said plurality of channels as a function of said detected incident radiant energy so as to remove variations in the intensity of the detected reflected radiant energy caused by variations in the intensity of the incident radiant energy. 5. The method as set forth in claim 3 wherein the plurality of optical channels comprises three optical channels, and wherein the wavelength detected in each of said three optical channels corresponds to a color intensity of red, blue and yellow, respectively. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1 further including impinging said ablated material with a particle stream to clean said structure. 7. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the reflected radiant energy from the target area corresponds to a trailing edge of the pulse of radiant energy generated by said flashlamp. 8. The method as set forth in claim 6 further including the step of scanning said pulsed radiant energy and said particle stream over said structure at a scan speed. 9. The method as set forth in claim 6 further including the step of scanning said pulsed radiant energy and said particle stream over said structure in incremental steps following a prescribed scan path. 10. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the reflected radiant energy from the target area corresponds to radiant energy that is generated by a simmer current applied to said flashlamp. 11. A system for removing a layer of material from a structure, comprising: a source of radiant energy that generates pulses of radiant energy having an intensity sufficient to ablate said layer of material; means for irradiating a target area on said structure with a series of said pulses of radiant energy for the purpose of ablating said layer of material; monitoring means for monitoring radiant energy from said source of radiant energy that is reflected from said target area in order to sense the presence of a prescribed color intensity that is different from a known color intensity of the layer of material being ablated by said irradiating means; and feedback means for controlling the irradiation of the target area with said source of radiant energy as a function of the color intensity sensed by said monitoring means. 12. The system as set forth in claim 11 wherein said monitoring means includes photodetection means for detecting a prescribed wavelength within the radiant energy of said source that is reflected from said target area, said prescribed wavelength being characteristic of said prescribed color intensity. 13. The system as set forth in claim 12 wherein said photodetection means further includes: a plurality of optical channels, each being adapted to receive a portion of the radiant energy of aid source that is reflected from said target area; first detection means for detecting if the reflected radiant energy in each of aid plurality of optical channels contains a respective wavelength; and processor means for analyzing the respective wavelengths detected in each optical channel to ascertain whether said prescribed color intensity is present in the reflected radiant energy. 14. The system as set forth in claim 13 wherein said photodetection means further includes second detection means for detecting the intensity of the incident radiant energy generated by said source of radiant energy that falls upon said target area, and wherein said processor means includes means for normalizing the detected reflected radiant energy detected by said first detection means as a function of said detected incident radiant energy detected by said second detection means, whereby any variations in the intensity of the detected reflected radiant energy caused by variations in the intensity of the incident radiant energy may be removed. 15. The system as set forth in claim 11 further including means for impinging said ablated material with a particle stream to clean said structure. 16. The system as set forth in claim 11 wherein said source of radiant energy comprises a flashlamp, and wherein said monitoring means includes means for sampling the reflected radiant energy at a prescribed sampling time relative to the generation of a pulse of radiant energy by said flashlamp. 17. The system as set forth in claim 16 wherein the prescribed sampling time samples the reflected radiant energy at a time coincident with a trailing edge portion of said pulse of radiant energy. 18. The system as set forth in claim 16 wherein the prescribed sampling time samples the reflected radiant energy at a time corresponding to the application of a simmer current to said flashlamp. 