A hose assembly suited for delivering viscous material to a dispenser nozzle at a controlled viscosity and temperature. The hose assembly includes a jacketed hose including an outer hose positioned around an inner hose carrying the mastic and defining an annular passage between the inner hose and the outer hose, and a hose cover assembly adapted to be releasably wrapped around a further remote hose carrying the mastic. The cover assembly includes an elongated strip of flexible material including generally parallel opposite longitudinal edges; a plurality of tubes embedded in the strip and running longitudinally through the strip; and coacting interengagable quick release means (such as a zipper) on the opposite longitudinal edges of the strip to enable the strip to be wrapped around the hose and secured in position around the hose by releasable interengagement of the quick release means.
Claims We claim: 1. A hose cover assembly comprising: an elongated strip of flexible material including generally parallel opposite longitudinal edges; a plurality of tubes embedded in the strip and running longitudinally through the strip; and coacting interengagable quick release means on said opposite longitudinal edges to enable the strip to be wrapped around a hose and secured in position around the hose by releasable interengagement of the quick release means. 2. A hose cover assembly according to claim 1 wherein: the strip is laminar and includes a plurality of layers; and the tubes are positioned between layers of the strip. 3. A hose cover assembly according claim 2 wherein: the layers are sewn together to secure the layers together and to define longitudinally extending passages for receiving the tubes. 4. A hose cover assembly according to claim 3 wherein: the layers are formed of a vinyl backed nylon material; and the tubes are formed of a plastic material. 5. A hose cover assembly according to claim 1 wherein: the system further includes means to supply a fluid to said tube for passage through said strip. 6. A hose cover assembly according to claim 5 wherein: the supply means includes a manifold associated with the strip; and one end of each tube is connected to the manifold. 7. A hose cover assembly according to claim 1 wherein: the ends of the tubes are selectively joined at one end of the strip to enable the fluid to flow in one direction through the strip through one tube and then reverse direction and flow in the other direction through the strip through another tube. 8. A hose cover assembly according to claim 1 wherein the cover assembly further includes: a flap at each end of the strip having a width exceeding the width of the strip so as to allow the flaps to be wrapped around the hose with longitudinal edges of the flaps overlapping; and quick release means on the longitudinal edges of the flaps to maintain the flaps in a wrapped configuration around the hose. 9. A hose cover assembly according to claim 1 wherein: the coacting interengagable quick release means comprises coacting zipper elements on the opposite longitudinal edges of the strip. 