A method of and a robotic system for preparing product samples to be analyzed at a later time has a plurality of processing stations in different locations. Each station performs a different function of a process for preparing a product sample for later chemical analysis. A robot moves a first container between a container storage area and a prepared sample area for storing in a second container a product sample which has been prepared for analysis and in which the robot moves the first container from the container storage area to each of the processing stations in a predetermined sequence and then removes some of the prepared product sample from the first container and dispenses it into the second container which is located in the prepared sample area. A specific application of such a robotic sample preparation system is disclosed for use in preparing tobacco samples for analysis of nicotine and sugar content.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating a robotic sample preparation system for preparing product samples to be analyzed at a later time, comprising the steps of: filling an empty sample solution container with a predetermined amount of product sample to be analyzed; moving said sample solution container containing said product sample to a dispensing station using said robotic system; dispensing at said dispensing station an extraction fluid into said sample solution container containing said product sample to form a sample solution in said sample solution container; moving said sample solution container containing said sample solution to an extraction station using said robotic system; extracting components of said product sample into said sample solution so as to form an extracted solution in said sample solution container; removing and filtering a predetermined amount of said extracted solution from said sample solution container using said robotic system and an extracted solution container; and using said robotic system to dispense said predetermined amount of extracted solution from said extracted solution container into one of a plurality of sample preparation cups which are included in a sample container for later analysis of said extracted solution. 2. The method of claim 1, further including the step of determining that said empty sample solution container is oriented in a proper direction prior to receiving said product sample. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said filling, moving, dispensing, extracting, removing and filling and using steps are all controlled independently of each other under direction of a digital data processor. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said sample container comprises a first rotatable tray which includes a plurality of sample preparation cups each for receiving a predetermined amount of said extracted solution. 5. The method of claim 4, further including the step of rotating said first rotatable tray after each of said plurality of sample preparation cups is filled until each of said plurality of sample preparation cups is filled with a different extracted solution sample. 6. The method of claim 5, further including the steps of removing said first rotatable tray containing a plurality of filled sample preparation cups and replacing said first rotatable tray with a second rotatable tray, said second rotatable tray having a like plurality of sample preparation cups. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said removing and filtering step comprises detecting the presence of a filter device attached to said extracted solution container. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said removing and filtering step comprises the step of removing said filter device from said extracted solution container prior to using said robotic system to dispense said extracted solution from said extracted solution container. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said extracting step comprises subjecting said sample solution to ultrasonic energy in order to extract components of said product sample into solution. 10. A method for operating a robotic sample preparation system for preparing product samples to be analyzed at a later time, comprising the steps of: filling an empty sample solution container with a predetermined amount of product sample to be analyzed; moving said sample solution container containing said product sample to a dispensing station using said robotic system; dispensing at said dispensing station an extraction fluid into said sample solution container containing said product sample to form a sample solution in said sample solution container; moving said sample solution container containing said sample solution to an extraction station using said robotic system; extracting components of said product sample into said sample solution so as to form an extracted solution in said sample solution container, wherein said extracting step comprises subjecting said sample solution to ultrasonic energy in order to extract components of said product sample into solution; removing and filtering a predetermined amount of said extracted solution from said sample solution container using said robotic system and an extracted solution container; and using said robotic system to dispense said predetermined amount of extracted solution from said extracted solution container into a sample container for later analysis of said extracted solution. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said removing and filtering step comprises detecting the presence of a filter device attached to said extracted solution container. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said removing and filtering step comprises the step of removing said filter device from said extracted solution container prior to using said robotic system to dispense said extracted solution from said extracted solution container. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein said sample container comprises a first rotatable tray which includes a plurality of sample preparation cups each for receiving a predetermined amount of said extracted solution. 14. The method of claim 13, further including the step of rotating said first rotatable tray after each of said plurality of sample preparation cups is filled until each of said plurality of sample preparation cups is filled with a different extracted solution sample. 15. The method of claim 14, further including the steps of removing said first rotatable tray containing a plurality of filled sample preparation cups and replacing said first rotatable tray with a second rotatable tray, said second rotatable tray having a like plurality of sample preparation cups. 16. The method of claim 10, further including the step of determining that said empty sample solution container is oriented in a proper direction prior to receiving said product sample. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein said filling, moving, dispensing, extracting, removing and filling and using steps are all controlled independently of each other under direction of a digital data processor. 18. A method of operating a robotic sample preparation system for preparing samples to be analyzed at a later time, comprising: providing a plurality of processing stations in different locations each for performing a different function for a process of preparing a product sample for later chemical analysis; using a robotic system for moving a first container between a container storage area and a prepared sample area for storing a product sample which has been prepared for analysis, said robotic system moving said first container from said container storage area to each of said processing stations in a predetermined sequence; determining whether said first container is oriented in a proper direction for receiving a predetermined amount of said product sample; and said robotic system further removing some of said prepared product sample from said first container and dispensing said removed prepared product sample into one of a plurality of second containers in said prepared sample area. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein each of said plurality of processing stations is controlled independently of each other under direction of a digital data processor. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein said prepared sample area comprises, a sample tray cabinet which includes a plurality of sample trays each having a plurality of second containers for receiving a predetermined amount of said prepared product sample. 21. The method of claim 20, further including the step of rotating a first one of said plurality of sample trays so as to fill each of said plurality of second containers with a predetermined amount of said prepared product sample. 22. The method of claim 21, further including the step of rotating said first one of said plurality of sample trays after each one of said plurality of second containers is filled until each one of said plurality of second containers is filled with a different prepared product sample. 23. The method of claim 22, further including the step of removing said first one of said plurality of sample trays containing a plurality of filled second containers and replacing said removed first one of said plurality of sample trays with a second one of said plurality of sample trays. 24. The method of claim 18, wherein said step of removing some of said prepared product comprises detecting the presence of a filter device attached to a device for dispensing some of said prepared product sample into said second container. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said step of removing some of said prepared product sample comprises the step of removing said filter device from said device for dispensing prior to said step of dispensing said prepared product sample into said second container. 26. The method of claim 18, further including the step of extracting components of said product sample into solution by dispensing an extraction solution into said first container and then subjecting said product sample and extraction solution to ultrasonic energy. 27. A robotic sample preparation system for preparing product samples to be analyzed at a later time, comprising: a storage system for holding a plurality of sample solution containers; a weighing system for weighing a quantity of product sample dispensed into each of said plurality of sample solution containers; an extraction solution dispensing system for dispensing a predetermined amount of extraction solution into each of said plurality of sample solution containers after said quantity of product sample has been dispensed into each of said containers; an extraction system for extracting components of said product sample into solution in one of said plurality of sample solution containers to form an extracted solution; a filtering system for filtering a predetermined portion of said extracted solution; a second storage system comprising a plurality of containers for storing said predetermined portion of said extracted solution; and a robotic system for removing one of said plurality of sample solution containers from said storage system and for moving the removed sample solution container between said weighing, extraction solution dispensing, extraction, and filtering systems as well as for dispensing filtered extracted solution into said second storage system. 28. The system of claim 22, further including a sensing device for determining that each one of said plurality of sample solution containers is oriented in a proper direction prior to receiving said quantity of product sample. 29. The system of claim 27, wherein each of said weighing, extraction solution dispensing, extraction, filtering and storage systems are connected to a digital data processor for controlling each of said systems independently of the others 30. The system of claim 27, wherein said second storage system comprises a first rotatable tray connected to a rotating device, said first rotatable tray including a plurality of sample preparation containers, each for receiving a predetermined amount of the filtered extracted solution. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein said second storage system further comprises at least a second rotatable tray which may be connected to said rotating device in place of said first rotatable tray, said second rotatable tray including a plurality of sample preparation containers, each for receiving a predetermined amount of said filtered extracted solution. 32. The system of claim 27, wherein said extraction system comprises at least one ultrasonic probe for applying ultrasonic energy to said product sample and extraction solution. 33. A method of operating a robotic sample preparation system for preparing samples to be analyzed at a later time, comprising: providing a plurality of processing stations in different locations each for performing a different function for a process of preparing a product sample for later chemical analysis; using a robotic system for moving a first container between a container storage area and a prepared sample area for storing a product sample which has been prepared for analysis, said robotic system moving said first container from said container storage area to each of said processing stations in a predetermined sequence; determining whether said first container is oriented in a proper direction for receiving a predetermined amount of said product sample; extracting components of said product sample into solution by dispensing an extraction solution into said first container and then subjecting said product sample and extraction solution to ultrasonic energy; and said robotic system further removing some of said prepared product sample from said first container and dispensing said removed prepared product sample into a second container in said prepared sample area. 34. The method of claim 33 , further including the step of determining whether said first container is oriented in a proper direction for receiving a predetermined amount of said product sample. 35. The method of claim 33, wherein each of said plurality of processing stations is controlled independently of each another under direction of a digital data processor. 36. The method of claim 33, wherein said prepared sample area comprises, a sample tray cabinet which includes a plurality of sample trays each having a plurality of second containers for receiving a predetermined amount of said prepared product sample. 37. The method of claim 36, further including the step of rotating a first one of said plurality of sample trays so as to fill each of said plurality of second containers with a predetermined amount of said prepared product sample. 38. The method of claim 37, further including the step of rotating said first one of said plurality of sample trays after each one of said plurality of second containers is filled until each one of said plurality of second containers is filled with a different prepared product sample. 39. The method of claim 38, further including the step of removing said first one of said plurality of sample trays containing a plurality of filled second containers and replacing said removed first one of said plurality of sample trays with a second one of said plurality of sample trays. 40. The method of claim 33, wherein said step of removing some of said prepared product comprises detecting the presence of a filter device attached to a device for dispensing some of said prepared product sample into said second container. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein said step of removing some of said prepared product sample comprises the step of removing said filter device from said device for dispensing prior to said step of dispensing said prepared product sample into said second container. 42. A robotic sample preparation system for preparing product samples to be analyzed at a later time, comprising: a storage system for holding a plurality of sample solution containers; a weighing system for weighing a quantity of product sample dispensed into each of said plurality of sample solution containers; an extraction solution dispensing system for dispensing a predetermined amount of extraction solution into each of said plurality of sample solution containers after said quantity of product sample has been dispensed into each of said containers; an extraction system for extracting components of said product sample into solution in one of said plurality of sample solution containers to form an extracted solution; said extraction system comprising at least one ultrasonic probe for applying ultrasonic energy to said product sample and extraction solution; a filtering system for filtering a predetermined portion of said extracted solution; a second storage system for storing said predetermined portion of said extracted solution; and a robotic system for removing one of said plurality of sample solution containers from said storage system and for moving the removed sample solution container between said weighing, extraction solution dispensing, extraction, and filtering systems as well as for dispensing filtered extracted solution into said second storage system. 43. The system of claim 42, wherein said storage system comprises a first rotatable tray connected to a rotating device, said first rotatable tray including a plurality of sample preparation containers, each for receiving a predetermined amount of the filtered extracted solution. 44. The system of claim 43, wherein said second storage system further comprises at least a second rotatable tray which may be connected to said rotating device in place of said first rotatable tray, said second rotatable tray including a plurality of sample preparation containers, each for receiving a predetermined amount of said filtered extracted solution. 