An automated pavement repair vehicle includes a vehicle and its various computer-controlled subsystems. The various subsystems, including a vacuum system, heating system and spray patch system, for completing pavement repair, are located on the frame and rear of the truck. A robotic cell at the rear of the truck includes an assembly of retractable doors. The doors are lowered around the pothole to allow control of ambient conditions during the pavement repair procedure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated pavement repair vehicle for repairing pavement defects, comprising: a vehicle body having a cab portion, truck portion and rear portion; a pavement cutting system, said system including a moveable cutter for cutting an edge portion of a pavement defect, said cutter being mounted on said vehicle cab portion; a moveable control arm, said control arm having extendible and retractable portions, said control arm being supported on and mounted for transverse movement along said truck portion of said vehicle body; a vacuum system, said vacuum system including a vacuum source, a filtration system, a vacuum conduit, and a hose portion, said vacuum conduit connecting said hose portion to said filtration system to provide a passageway for materials from said hose portion to said filtration system, said hose portion and said vacuum conduit forming a portion of said control arm; a heating system, said heating system including a heating lance, said heating lance forming a portion of said control arm; a spray patch application system, said spray patch application system including an aggregate portion and a repair material portion, and a spray patch delivery portion and a nozzle portion connected thereto, said spray patch delivery portion forming a portion of said control arm; and, said vehicle rear portion including a work area portion, said work area portion being substantially enclosed by a retractable door assembly positioned to include at least portions of a pavement defect. 2. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 1 wherein said control arm is capable of horizontal and lateral movement along said truck portion. 3. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 2 wherein said extendible and retractable portions of said control arm include a telescoping portion to permit said extension and retraction. 4. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 2 wherein said control arm includes a vertically extending portion, said vertically extending portion being downwardly extendible from said vehicle body. 5. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 2 wherein said control arm includes a track system to guide said lateral movement of said control arm. 6. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 5 wherein said track system includes a plurality of track portions in spaced apart relation along said vehicle truck portion. 7. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 6 wherein said control arm includes a chain and sprocket drive system to cause movement of said control arm along said track portions. 8. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 2 wherein said control arm is pivoted about a vertical shaft, said vertical shaft being located on said truck portion behind said vehicle cab portion. 9. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 2 wherein said control arm includes conduits for said vacuum system hose portion, said heating lance and said spray patch application system. 10. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 1 wherein said repair material is an asphalt emulsion. 11. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 1 wherein said vacuum source includes a positive displacement blower. 12. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 1 wherein said filtration system includes three separate canisters, said canisters being linked in series between said vacuum system hose portion and said vacuum source. 13. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 1 wherein said hose portion includes a flexible nozzle portion. 14. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 1 wherein said spray patch system includes a regulated mixture of aggregate addition and asphalt emulsion addition, said spray patch system including a flow regulation mechanism for regulating the rate of flow of said spray patch system. 15. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 14 wherein said aggregate addition includes larger and smaller sizes of aggregate, said larger sizes of aggregate being placed at the bottom of the pavement defect and said smaller sizes of aggregate being placed at the top of the pavement defect. 16. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 14 wherein liquid said aggregate is drawn into a conduit by air passing through said conduit. 17. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 14 wherein said spray patch system includes a positive displacement blower, said blower providing said vacuum source for said vacuum system. 18. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 1 wherein said work area portion includes a retractable door assembly positioned to cover a portion of said pavement defect. 19. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 18 wherein said retractable door assembly includes foldable walls, each of said foldable walls including a plurality of triangular portions hingedly connected with one another. 20. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 19 wherein said retractable door assembly includes a pair of rod members attached to said foldable walls, retraction of said rod members causing the bending and folding of said foldable walls at the hinged connections of said triangular portions, each of said triangular portions being fully retracted from a vertical position into a horizontal position. 21. The automated pavement repair vehicle of claim 18 wherein said retractable door assembly provides a work area with vertical walls, said control arm being positioned to transverse said work area. 