A wafer processing system includes an autoloader mounted within a load lock for providing batch, cassette-to-cassette automatic wafer transfer between the semiconductor processing chamber and cassette load and unload positions within the load lock. The system provides rapid, contamination-free loading and unloading of semiconductor wafers.
Claims We claim: 1. A chuck for releasably picking up articles such as semiconductor wafers, comprising: a base; a hub mounted on the base for reversible rotation and including a plurality of first arms extending therefrom for rotation with the hub along the base and about a rotational axis of the hub; at least a plurality of second arms, each being attached at an attachment point to an associated first arm; at least a plurality of third arms, each being pivotally attached at spaced points thereon to the base and to the second arm at a point on the second arm spaced from the attachment point of the first arm; whereby the reversible rotation of the hub is converted into collective inward and outward movement of the second arms; means mounted on the second arms for cooperatively engaging and picking up and releasing said articles during said inward and outward movement of the second arms; and means for reversibly rotating the hub. 2. The chuck of claim 1 wherein the rotating means comprises a motor having a rotatable shaft on which the hub is mounted. 3. The chuck of claim 1 wherein the article engaging means is a transverse-extending finger. 4. A chuck for picking up articles comprising: a base; a rotatable shaft extending from the base; at least a plurality of four-bar link arrangements actuated by the shaft, each such arrangement including: a first, input link having first and second spaced points therealong and being mounted at one point to the shaft; a second link including an article-engaging means mounted thereto, the second link being pivotally connected to the second point of the first link; a third link having first and second spaced points therealong and being pivotally mounted at one point to the base at a point spaced from the shaft to thereby define a region of the base between the shaft and the third link as a fourth non-movable link, the third link being pivotally connected at its second point to the first link; the base and the other links describing a quadrilaterally configured four-bar link arrangement; and whereby the third link defines a path of movement of the second link; the four-bar link arrangements being positioned at selected intervals about the shaft such that reversible rotation of the first or input links by the shaft moves the first links and their article-engaging means reciprocally inwardly and outwardly relative to the shaft to cooperatively pick up and release the article; and means for reversibly rotating the shaft. 5. The chuck of claim 4, wherein the second and third links comprise a flexible, L-shaped member connected proximate an end of one leg thereof to the base and connected proximate an end of another leg thereof to the second end of the first link, for converting movement of the hub and the first link into an inward and outward movement of the second link. 6. A chuck for picking up articles comprising: a flat base having rotatable shaft means extending therefrom; at least a plurality of quadrilateral four-bar link mechanisms mounted on the base, each mechanism having an input link and a second link mounted to the base at spaced points for reversible pivotal movement; an output link pivotally attached at spaced points thereon to the input link and to the second link, whereby the output link is reciprocally movable in response to the reversible pivotal movement of the input link; and an article gripper member mounted on the output link; said four-bar link mechanisms being positioned in a radial array about the shaft means and with the input links thereof connected to the shaft means for rotation therewith, such that the output links cooperatively and responsively move the article gripper members inwardly and outwardly for cooperatively gripping and releasing said article positioned therebetween; and means for reversibly rotating the shaft means. 7. A chuck for releasably picking up articles such as semiconductor wafers, comprising: a base; a hub mounted on the base for reversible rotation and including a plurality of first arms extending therefrom for rotation with the hub along the base and about a rotational axis of the hub; an array comprising at least a plurality of flexible second arms, each second arm being attached to an associated first arm; at least a plurality of flexible third arms, each third arm being attached at spaced points thereon to the base and to the second arm at a point on the second arm spaced from the attachment point of the first arm, so that the reversible rotation of the hub is converted into collective inward and outward movement of the second arms; a plurality of means mounted on the second arms for cooperatively engaging and picking up and releasing said articles during said inward and outward movement of the second arms; and means for reversibly rotating the hub. 8. The chuck according to claim 7 wherein the rotating means comprises a motor having a rotatable shaft on which the hub is mounted. 9. The chuck according to claim 7 wherein the means for picking up and releasing the articles is a finger mounted on the second arm and extending transverse to the array of arms. 10. The chuck of claim 7 wherein the second arm and the third arm comprise a flexible, L-shaped member connected proximate the end of one leg thereof to the base and connected proximate an end of another leg thereof to a second end of the first arm, for converting movement of the hub and the first arm into the inward and outward movement of the second arm. 11. In combination with the chuck of claim 7, a wafer processing system comprising a processing chamber; a load lock chamber; and a robotic wafer transfer system for transferring wafers bidirectionally (1) between a first position which is a substantially vertically oriented position on a wafer support within the processing chamber and a spaced second position which is a substantially horizontally oriented wafer support position within the load lock chamber, and (2) between the first and second vertical and horizontal orientations associated with the respective first and second positions, the combination further comprising: an elevator mounted within the load lock chamber for vertical movement therein; a housing mounted for pivotal movement on the elevator and having at least one retractable arm extending therefrom mounting the chuck; means for pivoting the housing and the chuck between the vertical and the horizontal orientations to orient the chuck for loading and unloading wafers at each of the first and second positions; means for moving the elevator vertically to position the chuck at the first and second positions; and means for extending and retracting the arm to position the chuck for picking up and releasing wafers at the first and second positions. 12. The combination of claim 11 further comprising: an optical sensor attached to the chuck for generating electrical signals representative of a distance between the chuck and at least the first position; means responsive to said electrical signals for determining an angular orientation of the first position; memory means for storing said angular orientation and distance information; and electronic driver means responsive to the stored information for controlling the wafer transfer system to move the chuck to the first position for loading and unloading the wafers. 13. The combination of claim 12 wherein the housing includes an aperture which is covered by a filter, for permitting transfer of ambient gas between the housing and the processing chamber without particulate transfer. 14. The combination of claim 13 wherein the load lock chamber comprises a gas inlet and a gas outlet, and further comprises: a first filter mounted on the gas inlet to the load lock chamber for substantially eliminating the particulates from the inlet gas flow and comprising a large surface area relative to a cross-section area of the gas inlet for reducing the gas flow velocity through the first filter relative to the gas inlet to provide non-turbulent laminar gas flow into the load lock chamber; and a second filter mounted on the gas outlet from the load lock chamber for isolating the load lock chamber from the gas outlet and comprising a large surface area relative to the cross-section area of the gas outlet for reducing the gas flow velocity through the second filter relative to the gas outlet to provide non-turbulent laminar exhaust flow. 15. The combination of claim 13 wherein the housing filter comprises an electrostatic filter material which retains the particles. 16. A chuck for picking up articles comprising: a base; a rotatable shaft extending from the base; at least a plurality of four-bar link arrangements actuated by the shaft, each such arrangement including: a first, input link having first and second spaced points therealong and being mounted at the first point to the shaft; a flexible second link including an article-engaging member mounted thereto, the second link being mounted to the first link at the second point thereof; a flexible third link having first and second spaced points therealong and being mounted at the first point thereon to the base at a point on the base spaced from the shaft to thereby define region of the base between the shaft and the third link as a fourth non-movable link, the third link being mounted at the second point thereon to the second link, whereby the base and the other links describe a quadrilaterally configured four-bar link arrangement and the third link defines a path of movement of the second link; the four-bar link arrangements being positioned at selected intervals about the shaft such that reversible rotation of the first input links by the shaft moves the first links and their article-engaging members reciprocally inwardly and outwardly relative to the shaft to cooperatively pick up and release the article; and means for reversibly rotating the shaft. 