A multiple configuration toy vehicle includes an elongated chassis supported by a plurality of wheels. A rear support is pivotally secured to the rear of the chassis. A creature includes a center body, a rear body and head. The head and rear body are pivotally secured to the center body. The rear body is removably securable to the rear support and includes foldable wings which open as the rear body pivots with respect to the center body.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A toy vehicle comprising: a chassis; a pivotal support member pivotally coupled to said chassis; a simulated creature having a center body portion and a rear body portion pivotally coupled thereto; means for attaching said rear body portion to said pivotal support member such that said rear body portion and said center body portion are restable upon said chassis in a relaxed position and pivotable upwardly therefrom in a raised position, said body portions pivoting with respect to each other when in said raised position; a pair of simulated wings; and actuating support means coupled said rear body portion supporting said pair of simulated wings in a closed position when said rear body portion and said center body portion are in said relaxed position and engaging said center body portion moving said pair of simulated wings to an open diverging position when said rear body and said center body portion are pivoted with respect to each other as they are moved to said raised position. 2. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 1 further including a head loosely coupled to said center body portion having a movable jaw pivotally coupled to said head, said head tilting downwardly and said jaw pivoting open when said creature is lifted. 3. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 2 wherein said means for attaching includes: a flange formed on said rear body portion and defining a groove; and an upwardly open notch formed in said pivotal support member for receiving said flange in a sliding attachment. 4. A toy vehicle comprising: a chassis defining an upper surface and front and rear ends; a rear support, having first attachment means, pivotally coupled to said rear end of said chassis; a toy creature defining a center body, a rear body and pivotal coupling means therebetween; second attachment means formed on said rear body for removably attaching said rear body to said first attachment means; and a pair of wings pivotally secured to said rear body having coupling means for pivoting said wings to an open position when said rear body pivots with respect to said center body, said toy creature resting upon said upper surface of said chassis in a lowered position such that said center body and rear body are generally aligned and said pair of wings are closed and generally aligned and said toy creature being raised to an open position above said surface as said rear support is pivoted in which said center body tilts downwardly and said wings pivot outwardly. 5. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 4 further including a head loosely coupled to said center body. 6. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 5 wherein said center body defines an interior cavity and a downwardly open aperture and a handle supported within said interior cavity. 7. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 6 wherein said coupling means include: a pair of angularly oriented hinges coupling said wings to said rear body to be pivotable upwardly and outwardly from said rear body; and a pair of arms extending from each of said wings engaging said center body. 8. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 5 wherein said center body defines an interior cavity a downwardly open aperture and a generally cylindrical handle supported within said interior cavity. 