A sliding mode including a process of feeding back an amount of twist for controlling a servo loop is controlled by reading the position of a servomotor and the position of a mechanical actuator drivable by the servomotor (SP1), calculating an amount of twist which is an error (SP2), calculating a switching surface Suf with a value produced by filtering the amount of twist (SP3), and selecting a switching input with the produced value (SP4, SP5, SP6). The amount of twist is filtered by a filter which has a numerator and a denominator which are of a first order. The filter allows a system to be realized which suffers less vibration and is robust against inertia fluctuations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of executing sliding-mode control of a servomotor, comprising the steps of: (a) feeding back an amount of twist, representing a positional difference between a servomotor and a mechanical actuator drivable by the servomotor, to a servo loop of the servomotor; and (b) performing sliding-mode control of the servomotor with switching surfaces selected by filtering the amount of twist by a filter having a characteristic represented by a numerator and a denominator which are of a first order with respect to a Laplace operator. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of obtaining the amount of twist from estimation by an observer for feeding back in step (a). 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein a robot is controlled by said sliding-mode control. 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein said mechanical actuator is an arm of said robot. 5. A method of executing sliding-mode control of a servomotor controlling movement of a mechanical actuator, comprising the steps of: (a) reading a commanded position from a shared memory; (b) obtaining a servomotor position; (c) obtaining a position error between the commanded position and the servomotor position, a differential of the position error and an amount of twist representing a positional difference between the servomotor position and an actuator position of the mechanical actuator; (d) filtering the amount of twist by a filter having a characteristic represented by a numerator and a denominator which are of a first order with respect to a Laplace operator; (e) calculating a switching surface value from the position error and the differential of the position error obtained in step (c) and the amount of twist after said filtering in step (d); (f) selecting a switching input in accordance with the switching surface value; (g) calculating an input to a current compensating loop controlling the servomotor in dependence upon the switching input selected in step (f); and (h) transferring the input to the current compensating loop. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein said obtaining in step (c) comprises obtaining the amount of twist from estimation by an observer. 