A gait generation for a biped mobile robot having a body and two legs each connected to the body and having a foot at its distal end in walking a terrain including a first surface and a second surface met at a dihedral angle such that the robot feet are in simultaneous contact with the different two surfaces. The centers of ground contact pressure distribution of the first and second surfaces are determined. A virtual third surface which assumes to vary from the first surface to the second surface is established. Then a virtual ZMP (Zero Moment Point) is assumed on the virtual third surface such that the virtual ZMP is displaced along a path obtained by connecting the centers of the ground pressure distribution of the first and second surfaces. And a gait for the robot is generated such that a ZMP kinematically determined from the motion of the robot coincides with the target ZMP.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for generating a gait of a legged mobile robot with a plurality of legs in walking on a terrain including at least a first surface and a second surface such that the robot legs are in simultaneous contact with the first and second surfaces, comprising: first means for assuming a virtual third surface which varies between the first and second surfaces; second means for assuming target ZMP (Zero Moment Point) on the virtual third surface; and third means for generating a gait of the robot such that a ZMP kinematically determined from the motion of the robot coincides with the target ZMP. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said first means assumes the virtual third surface which continuously varies between the first and second surfaces. 3. A system for generating a gait of a biped mobile robot in walking on a terrain including at least a first surface and a second surface such that the robot legs are in simultaneous contact with the first and second surfaces, comprising: first means for assuming a virtual third surface which varies from the first surface to the second surface during a period starting at a time when one robot leg lands on the second surface while keeping another robot leg on the first surface and ending at a next time when the another robot leg takes off the first surface; second means for assuming a target ZMP (Zero Moment Point) on the virtual third surface; and third means for generating a gait of the robot such that a ZMP kinematically determined from the motion of the robot coincides with the target ZMP. 4. A system according to claim 3, wherein said first means assumes the virtual third surface which continuously varies from the first surface to the second surface during the period. 5. A system for generating a gait of a biped mobile robot in walking on a terrain including at least a first surface and a second surface such that the robot legs are in simultaneous contact with the first and second surfaces, comprising: first means for determining centers of ground contact pressure distribution of the first and second surfaces during a period starting at a time when one robot leg lands on the second surface while keeping another robot leg on the first surface and ending at a next time when the another robot leg takes off the first surface; second means for assuming a virtual third surface which continuously varies from the first surface to the second surface; third means for assuming a target ZMP (Zero Moment Point) on the virtual third surface such that the target ZMP is on a line obtained by connecting the centers of the ground contact pressure distribution of the first and second surfaces at every moment; and fourth means for generating a gait of the robot such that a ZMP kinematically determined from the motion of the robot coincides with the target ZMP at every moment. 6. A system according to claim 5, further including: fifth means for establishing a first coordinate system whose origin is at the center of the ground contact pressure distribution of the first surface, a second coordinate system whose origin is at the center of the ground contact pressure distribution of the second surface, and a third coordinate system whose origin is at the target ZMP, and said fourth means generates the gait such that the ZMP kinematically determined from the motion of the robot coincides with the origin of the third coordinate system at every moment. 7. A system according to claim 5, wherein said third means assumes the target ZMP such that the its trajectory is continuous. 8. A system according to claim 5, wherein said third means assumes the target ZMP suck that its trajectory is at continuous velocity. 9. A system according to claim 5, wherein said third means assumes the target ZMP such that its trajectory is at continuous acceleration. 10. A system according to claim 5, wherein said third means assumes the target ZMP to be the point obtained by dividing the line proportionally to the rest of the period. 11. A system according to claim 5, wherein the biped mobile robot has a body and the two legs each connected to the body, and said fourth means generates the gait by establishing at least a trajectory of the portion at which the body and the two legs are connected. 12. A system according to claim 5, wherein the biped mobile robot has a body and the two legs each connected to the body and each having a foot at its distal end, and said fourth means generates the gait by establishing at least trajectories of the portion at which the body and the two legs are connected and the foot. 13. A system according to claim 6, wherein said fifth means establishes the first to third coordinate systems such that y axes thereof are made same in orientation. 14. A system according to claim 5, wherein the first and second surfaces meet at a dihedral angle. 