A method for manufacturing a molded waveguide (50) is provided. A first cladding layer (20) is provided. Channels (21) are formed in the first cladding layer (20). A second cladding layer (40) is subsequently provided. The channels (21) in the first cladding layer (20) are then filled with an optically transparent polymer. The second cladding layer (40) is subsequently affixed over the channels (21) of the first cladding layer (20), thereby enclosing the channels (21).
Claims We claim: 1. A method for fabricating an optical electronic module comprising: providing an interconnect board having standard electronic components, output leads, and at least one interface pad, the at least one interface pad connects the standard electronic components and the output leads interactively; attaching a molded split waveguide to the interconnect board, the molded split waveguide comprising a channel that splits into at least two channels, an alignment guide, and a optical component having an active area and an output pad, the channel and the at least two channels and the alignment guide are molded therein and the optical component is mounted onto the molded split waveguide aligning the active area of the optical component to the channel; thereby enabling the optical component to respond to an optical signal traveling through the molded split waveguide; and connecting the interface pad of the interconnect board with the output pad of the split waveguide, thereby interconnecting the standard electronic components to the optical component. 2. A method for fabricating an optical electronic module as claimed in claim 1 wherein the connecting of the interface pad of the interconnect board with the output pad of the split waveguide is accomplished by wire bonding. 3. A method for fabricating an optical electronic module as claimed in claim 1 wherein the attaching of the molded split waveguide is accomplished by an adhesive. 4. A method for fabricating an optical electronic module as claimed in claim 1 further comprising: providing an optical connector having an alignment guide with a fiber optic ribbon cable attached thereto; attaching the optical connector to the molded split waveguide by aligning the alignment guide of the optical connector and the alignment guide of the molded split waveguide, thereby aligning a fiber of the fiber optic ribbon cable to the channel of the molded split waveguide. 5. A method for fabricating an optical electronic module comprising: providing an interconnect board having standard electronic components, output leads, and an output pad; attaching a molded waveguide with at least one optical electronic interface to the interconnect board; and connecting the output pad to the at least one optical electronic interface, thereby interconnecting the standard electronic components to the optical electronic interface. 6. A method as set forth in claim 5 wherein the connecting of the output pad and the at least one optical electronic interface is accomplished by wire bonding. 7. A method as set forth in claim 5 wherein the attaching of the molded waveguide is accomplished by adhering the molded waveguide to the interconnect board with an adhesive. 8. A method as set forth in claim 5 further including the step of: encapsulating the optical electronic module leaving the leads exposed. 9. An optical electronic module comprising: an interconnect board having standard electronic components, output leads, and an output pad; a molded waveguide with at least one optical electronic interface attached to the interconnect board; means for connecting the output pad to the at least one optical electronic interface, thereby interconnecting the standard electronic components to the optical electronic interface. 10. An optical electronic module as set forth in claim 9 wherein the means for connecting the output pad to the at least one optical electronic interface is achieved by wire bonding. 11. An optical electronic module as set forth in claim 9 wherein the optical electronic interface is either at least a photodiode or a laser. 12. An optical electronic module as set forth in claim 9 wherein the molded waveguide is attached to the interconnect board by an adhesive. 13. An optical electronic module as set forth in claim 12 wherein the adhesive is an epoxy. 14. An optical electronic module as set forth in claim 9 further including a cover encapsulating the optical electronic module, wherein the leads are left exposed. 