A control system for rapid fault tolerant control of a multiple control-point apparatus is disclosed. The system comprises: a host subsystem acting as a user interface; a plurality of control-point actuators; a master controller subsystem which receives initialization data from the host terminal and which generates behavior commands; and a control-point controller subsystem which receives behavior commands from the master controller subsystem and generates control-point actuator commands. The control-point controller subsystem is made fault tolerant by using a plurality of control-point processors connected to control-point interfaces through a programmable crossbar switch such that if any of the control-point processors develops a fault, the crossbar switch will connect one of the other control-point processors to the control-point interface previously serviced by the faulty control-point processors. The master controller subsystem can be made fault tolerant by including an odd number of at least three master processors in the master controller subsystem such that each master processor runs a common control program in parallel with every other master processor and the master control output for each master processor is compared with the other master control outputs to generate the output common to the majority of master processors as the majority control output.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control system for rapid fault tolerant control of a multiple control-point apparatus, comprising: a. a host subsystem acting as a user interface; b. a plurality of control-point actuators, wherein the control-point actuators are located on or within the multiple control-point apparatus; c. a master controller subsystem, which receives initialization data from the host subsystem and generates apparatus behavior commands; d. a control-point controller subsystem, which receives apparatus behavior commands from the master controller subsystem and generates control-point actuator commands, comprising: i) a plurality of control-point processors, wherein each control-point processor receives the behavior commands addressed to it and generates control-point actuator commands corresponding to the behavior commands; ii) a plurality of control-point interfaces, which transmit control-point actuator commands generated by the plurality of control-point controllers to the plurality of control-point actuators and transmit control-point position information from the plurality of control-point actuators to the plurality of control-point controllers for use in generating control-point actuator commands; and iii) a programmable crossbar switch capable of connecting any control-point processor to any control-point interface, so that if any one control-point processor develops a fault, the crossbar switch will connect another control-point processor to the control-point interface previously controlled by the faulty control-point processor. 2. The control system of claim 1, wherein the master controller subsystem further comprises: a. an odd number of at least three master processors, wherein each master processor runs a common control program in parallel with every other master processor and wherein each generates a master control output; and b. means for generating a majority control output, comprising: i) means for determining which master control output is common to the majority of master processors to identify the majority control output; and ii) means for outputting the majority control output. 3. The control system of claim 2, wherein said master processors are high speed transputers. 4. The control system of claim 1, wherein the number of control-point processors is at least one in excess of the number of control-point interfaces such that if the master controller subsystem detects a failure in one of the control-point processors, the programmable crossbar will connect one of the excess control-point processors to the control-point interface previously connected to the failed control-point processor. 5. The control system of claim 1, wherein the control-point interface further comprises: a. a plurality of serial-to-parallel converters for converting the control-point actuator commands from a serial data stream into parallel data command packets; b. a plurality of digital-to-analog converters for converting parallel data command packets into analog control-point actuator command signals; c. a plurality of position encoders for generating position signals which quantify the position of the apparatus being controlled; and d. a means for transmitting the position signals to the control-point controller processors. 6. The control system of claim 1, wherein the multiple control-point apparatus is a robotic device or robot arm. 7. The control system of claim 1, wherein said control-point processors are high-speed transputers. 8. The control system of claim 1, wherein said programmable crossbar switch is a high-speed link switch. 9. The control system of claim 1, wherein the host subsystem is a terminal selected from the group consisting of a personal computer and an intelligent workstation. 10. A fault tolerant method for actuating a multiple control-point apparatus using the control system of claim 1, comprising the steps of: a. initializing the master controller subsystem using the host subsystem; b. generating fault tolerant behavior commands using the master controller subsystem and transmitting the fault tolerant behavior commands to the control-point controller subsystem; c. generating fault tolerant control-point actuator commands using the control-point controller subsystem; d. transforming the fault tolerant control-point position actuator commands from the format generated by the control-point controller into the format acceptable to the control-point actuators by using a plurality of control-point interfaces; and e. transmitting the fault tolerant control-point actuator commands to the control-points of the apparatus so as to actuate the control-points actuators on or within the apparatus. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the master controller subsystem comprises a plurality of master processors. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the control-point interfaces transform the control-point actuator commands by converting the control point actuator commands from a serial data stream to parallel command packets and converting the command packets into analog control-point actuator signals. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the master controller subsystem comprises an odd number of master processors and outputs the output common to the majority of master processors as the fault tolerant behavior commands. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the number of control-point processors is at least one in excess of the number of control-point interfaces such that if the master controller subsystem detects a failure in one of the control-point processors, the crossbar will connect one of the excess control-point processors to the control-point interface previously connected to the failed control-point processor so as to provide fault tolerant control-point actuator commands. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the apparatus is a robotic device or a multiple jointed robot arm. 16. In a control system for rapid fault tolerant control of a multiple control-point apparatus, comprising a host subsystem acting as a user interface; a plurality of control-point actuators, wherein the control-point actuators are located on or within the apparatus; a master controller subsystem which receives initialization data from the host terminal and generates apparatus behavior commands; a control-point controller subsystem which recieves apparatus behavior commands from the master controller subsystem and generates control-point actuator commands; and a plurality of control-point interfaces which transmit control-point actuator commands from the control-point controller to the plurality of control-point actuators and transmits control-point position information from the plurality of control-point actuators to the control-point controller subsystem for use in generating control-point actuator commands, the improvement comprising: a. means for providing apparatus behavior commands that are fault tolerant, comprising: i) an odd number of at least three master processors located in the master controller subsystem, wherein each master processor runs a common control program in parallel with every other master processor and wherein each master processor generates a master control output; and ii) means for generating a majority master control output, comprising: A) means for determining which master control output is common to the majority of master processors to identify the majority control output; and B) means for outputting the majority control output; and b. means for providing control-point actuator commands that are fault tolerant, comprising: i) a plurality of control-point controller processors located in the control-point controller subsystem, wherein each control-point processor receives the behavior commands addressed to it and generates control-point actuator commands; and ii) a programmable crossbar switch capable of connecting any control-point processor to any control-point interface. 