A method and system for fabricating semiconductor wafers is disclosed wherein an atomically clean, semiconductor substrate having a surface is provided in a rapid thermal processing chamber. One embodiment involves cleaning the substrate by exposing it to a first gas at a temperature substantially within the range of 850.degree. C. to 1250.degree. C. for approximately 10 to 60 seconds. Subsequently, a coating having a first thickness is formed superjacent the substrate surface by introducing a second gas at a temperature substantially within the range of 850.degree. C. to 1250.degree. C. for approximately 5 to 30 seconds in the chamber. The resultant coating, depending on the gas selected, comprises either SiO.sub.2 or Si-F. Subsequently, the substrate having the coating is exposed to a third gas at a temperature substantially within the range of 900.degree. C. to 1050.degree. C. for approximately 30 minutes to one hour, thereby forming a silicon dioxide layer. The silicon dioxide layer is disposed superjacent the substrate and subjacent the coating. In one embodiment of the invention, this step is performed in a furnace. In an alternate embodiment of the present invention, a transferring device, such as a robot, is employed, using a load lock, to transfer the substrate between the RTP chamber and the furnace without exposing the substrate to atmospheric pressure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafers comprising the steps of: a) providing a substantially clean substrate in an RTP (Rapid Thermal Processing) chamber, said substrate having a surface, wherein said substrate is cleaned with at least one of NF.sub.3, GeH.sub.4, and H.sub.2 diluted with Ar-H.sub.2 ; b) forming a coating having a first thickness superjacent said surface by introducing a first gas and radiant energy in said RTP chamber; and c) forming a silicon dioxide layer having a second thickness superjacent said surface by introducing a second gas and energy. 2. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 1, wherein said silicon dioxide layer is disposed between said surface and said coating. 3. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 1, wherein step c) is performed in a furnace. 4. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 3, further comprising the step of: transferring said substrate between said chamber and said furnace, in-situ, thereby employing a load lock, between said forming a coating and said forming a silicon dioxide layer. 5. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 4, wherein said transferring is performed by an automated means. 6. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 5, wherein said automated means comprises a robotic handler. 7. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 1, wherein said energy of step b) generates a temperature substantially within the range of 850.degree. C. to 1250.degree. C. and is applied for approximately 5 to 30 seconds. 8. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, comprising the steps of: providing a substantially clean substrate in a chamber, said substrate having a surface; forming a coating having a first thickness superjacent said surface by introducing a first gas and energy, said first gas comprising NF.sub.3 ; and forming a silicon dioxide layer having a second thickness superjacent said surface by introducing a second gas and energy. 9. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 8, wherein said first gas further comprises at least one of O.sub.2 and N.sub.2 O. 10. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 9, wherein said coating comprises silicon dioxide and SiF. 11. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 8, wherein said coating comprises Si-F. 12. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 10, wherein said method is performed at atmospheric pressure. 13. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 10, wherein said clean substrate is cleaned by exposing said substrate to a third gas at a temperature substantially within the range of 850.degree. C. to 1250.degree. C. for approximately 10 to 60 seconds. 14. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 13, wherein said third gas comprises at least one of NF.sub.3, GeH.sub.4, HF, and H.sub.2 diluted with Ar-H.sub.2. 15. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 10, wherein said first thickness is in the approximate range of 10.ANG. to 40.ANG.. 16. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 15, wherein said second thickness is in the approximate range of 50.ANG. to 150.ANG.. 17. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 10, wherein said energy of step c) generates a temperature substantially within the range of 900.degree. C. to 1050.degree. C. and is applied for approximately 30 minutes to one hour. 18. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 10, wherein said second gas comprises at least one of O.sub.2 and N.sub.2 O. 19. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, according to claim 10, wherein said chamber comprises a rapid thermal processor. 20. A method for fabricating a semiconductor wafer, comprising the steps of: a) providing a substantially clean substrate in a chamber, said substrate having a surface, said substrate being cleaned with at least one of NF.sub.3, GeH.sub.4, and H.sub.2 diluted with Ar-H.sub.2 ; b) transferring said substrate from said chamber to a furnace in-situ employing a load lock; c) forming a silicon dioxide layer having a first thickness superjacent said surface by introducing at least one of O.sub.2 and N.sub.2 O into said furnace at a range of 900.degree. C. to 1050.degree. C. for approximately 30 minutes to one hour; d) transferring said substrate from said furnace to said chamber in-situ employing a load lock; and e) forming a film having a second thickness superjacent said surface by introducing at least one of O.sub.2, N.sub.2 O and NF.sub.3 into said chamber at a range of 850.degree. C. to 1250.degree. C. for approximately 5 to 30 seconds, wherein said film is formed before said silicon dioxide layer. 