Method and system are provided wherein a process robot moves the door of a vehicle to an open position, performs a robotically controlled process within the vehicle and then moves the door back to a closed position. A separate, two-axis programmable arm holds the door in the open position. In particular, the process robot has attached thereto a tool extension whereby the process robot goes in through a window opening of the door of the vehicle, executes a door open path where the door contacts the inner panel of the door and opens the door over a magnetic holder positioned on the two-axis programmable arm below the bottom of the door. The magnet is of sufficient magnetic strength to accurately hold the door at the programmed holding position of the two-axis arm. The process robot then performs a production operation (i.e. painting, priming, sealing, etc.) within the vehicle. The process robot then inserts the tool extension into the window slot of the door and closes the door without touching the processed surfaces of the vehicle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for constraining a single first point (A) on a ferromagnetic body to a position in space defined by a second point (48) reachable by said first point by virtue of the constrained movement of said ferromagnetic body, the method comprising the steps of: locating a magnet (32) adjacent said second point (48) wherein the resultant magnetic force of attraction between said magnet and said ferromagnetic body, when said first point is located at said second point, has a directional vector that intersects a first axis (45), and, wherein said magnet and said body are prevented from contacting each other by constraints limiting their movement along said first axis; and moving said ferromagnetic body such that said first point is at a third point (B) adjacent said second point and the force of attraction between said magnet and said ferromagnetic body is adequate to move said ferromagnetic body from said third point towards said magnet to minimize the distance between said first and second points, wherein said ferromagnetic body is elongated and said magnet is elongated and pivoted to rotate angularly about said first axis such that the step of moving causes said elongated magnet to rotate about said first axis and align itself with said elongated ferromagnetic body. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said ferromagnetic body is hinged to rotate about an axis substantially parallel to said first axis. 3. A method for opening, holding and closing a hinged magnetic member of a body to allow a process to occur therein at a process station, the method comprising the steps of: providing a magnetic holder mounted for pivotal movement about a pivot axis to align itself with an edge of the member at a holding position at the process station; providing a process robot with a tool; moving the robot through a first programmed path so that the tool contacts the member; moving the robot through a second programmed path so that the tool moves the member from a closed position to an open position immediately adjacent the holding position, the magnetic holder having sufficient magnetic strength to hold the member in the open position in a non-contact fashion; moving the robot through a third programmed path so that the tool moves away from the member and the robot performs the process within the body, wherein said magnetic holder remains at the holding position while the robot performs the process; moving the robot through a fourth programmed path so that the tool contacts the member at the open position; and moving the robot through a fifth programmed path so that the tool moves the member from the open position to the closed position wherein the step of providing the magnetic holder at the holding position includes the steps of: providing a programmable arm supporting the magnetic holder; and moving the programmable arm through an arm path so that the magnetic holder is located at the holding position, wherein the magnetic holder is pivotally mounted on the programmable arm to permit the magnetic holder to pivot about the pivot axis from a predetermined angular position. 4. The method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the programmable arm includes means for returning the magnet to the predetermined angular position. 5. The method as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the programmable arm is adjustable in a substantially vertical direction. 6. The method as claimed in claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the method further comprises the step of providing a track wherein the robot and the programmable arm are mounted for movement along the track. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the robot and the programmable arm are mounted for movement in unison along the track. 8. A system for opening, holding and closing a hinged magnetic member of a body to allow a process to occur therein at a process station, the system comprising: a magnetic holder mounted for pivotal movement about a pivot axis to align itself with an edge of the member at a holding position at the process station; a process robot having a tool and capable of moving along a first programmed path so that the tool contacts the member, along a second programmed path so that the tool moves the member from a closed position to an open position immediately adjacent the holding position, the magnetic holder having sufficient strength to hold the member in the open position in a non-contact fashion, along a third programmed path so that the tool moves away from the member and the robot performs a process within the body, along a fourth programmed path so that the tool contacts the member at the open position and along a fifth programmed path so that the tool moves the member from the open position to the closed position of the member wherein the open position remains immediately adjacent the holding position while the robot performs the process wherein the system further comprises a programmable arm for supporting the magnetic holder, the programmable arm moving through an arm path to position the magnetic holder at the holding position, and wherein the magnetic holder is pivotally mounted on the programmable arm to permit the magnetic holder to pivot about the pivot axis from a predetermined angular position. 9. The system as claimed in claim 8 wherein the programmable arm includes means for returning the magnetic holder to the predetermined angular position. 10. The system as claimed in claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the programmable arm is rotatable about a pair of substantially vertical non-coincident parallel axes. 11. The system as claimed in claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the programmable arm is vertically adjustable. 12. The system as claimed in claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the system further comprises a track wherein the robot and the programmable arm are mounted for movement on the track. 13. The system as claimed in claim 12 wherein the robot and the programmable arm are mounted for movement in unison along the track. 14. A method for constraining a first point (A) on a ferromagnetic body to a position in space defined by a second point (48) reachable by said first point by virtue of the constrained movement of said ferromagnetic body, the method comprising the steps of: locating a magnet (32) adjacent said second point (48) wherein the resultant magnetic force of attraction between said magnet and said ferromagnetic body, when said first point is located at said second point, has a directional vector that intersects a first axis (45), and, wherein said magnet and said ferromagnetic body are prevented from contacting each other by constraints limiting their movement along said first axis; and moving said ferromagnetic body such that said first point is at a third point (B) adjacent said second point and the force of attraction between said magnet and said ferromagnetic body is adequate to move said ferromagnetic body from said third point towards said magnet to minimize the distance between said first and second points wherein said ferromagnetic body is elongated and said magnet is elongated and pivoted to rotate angularly about said first axis such that the step of moving causes said elongated magnet to rotate about said first axis and align itself with said elongated ferromagnetic body. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said ferromagnetic body is hinged to rotate about an axis substantially parallel to said first axis. 16. A system for opening, holding and closing a hinged magnetic member of a body to allow a process to occur therein at a process station, the system comprising: a magnetic holder located at a holding position at the process station; a process robot having a tool and capable of moving along a first programmed path so that the tool contacts the member, along a second programmed path so that the tool moves the member from a closed position to an open position immediately adjacent the holding position, the magnetic holder having sufficient strength to hold the member in the open position in a non-contact fashion, along a third programmed path so that the tool moves away from the member and the robot performs a process within the body, along a fourth programmed path so that the tool contacts the member at the open position and along a fifth programmed path so that the tool moves the member from the open position to the closed position of the member wherein the open position remains immediately adjacent the holding position while the robot performs the process wherein the system further comprises a programmable arm for supporting the magnetic holder, the programmable arm moving through an arm path to position the magnetic holder at the holding position and wherein the programmable arm is rotatable about a pair of substantially vertical, non-coincident parallel axes. 