A remotely controllable robotic inspection vehicle includes a fixed housing which can accommodate a number of modular inspection and/or robotic arm components. The base unit includes two drive and two free castering wheels arranged in an independently articulating configuration which insures that at least three of the wheels are in a supporting position at all times and that the drive wheels always have traction. Thus, when small objects, such as construction debris, uneven floors, etc., are encountered, the vehicle easily traverses them with no danger of tipping or loss of traction. The two drive wheels are independently powered, which permits the vehicle to be rotated in a very small confined space about the same diameter as the width of the vehicle. A centrally mounted, modular telescoping camera assembly includes a camera which can be raised and lowered as well as rotated in the vertical and horizontal planes and/or a modular robotic arm. The vehicle can be lowered into remote areas, such as underground transformer housings, etc. to perform inspections and repairs.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is as follows: 1. A robotic inspection vehicle comprising: (a) a vehicle housing; (b) an articulating support and drive assembly including four wheels, said assembly being adapted to support said vehicle by maintaining at least three of said wheels in a supporting position when said vehicle is traversing an obstacle; (c) environmental monitoring means for sensing ambient conditions around said vehicle, said monitoring means being mounted on said vehicle housing; and (d) means for shifting the center of gravity of said vehicle over the three wheels which are in a supporting position when said vehicle is traversing said obstacle. 2. A vehicle as in claim 1, wherein said assembly comprises: (a) first and second drive wheels, each of which are independently powered; and (b) first and second support wheels. 3. A vehicle as in claim 2 wherein: (a) said drive wheels are spaced to allow passage through a 24 inch manhole and the remainder of the vehicle 1 has a diameter substantially no greater than the spacing between said drive wheels such that said vehicle may pass through such a manhole. 4. A vehicle as in claim 3, wherein: (a) said support wheels are free castering, with said first support wheel positioned in front of the drive wheels and said second support wheel positioned behind said drive wheels, whereby said vehicle can be rotated about a central axis thereof in an area approximately the same diameter as its own width. 5. A vehicle as in claim 4, wherein: (a) said vehicle further comprises a platform; and (b) said first support wheel and at least one of said drive wheels are attached to said platform which is pivotable with respect to said vehicle housing. 6. A vehicle as in claim 5, wherein: (a) said first support wheel and both of said drive wheels are attached to said platform; and (b) said second support wheel is connected to said housing; whereby (c) when said first support wheel encounters an object, said platform pivots upward relative to said housing such that said first support wheel is raised. 7. A vehicle as in claim 6, wherein: (a) said vehicle further comprises first and second drive motors and first and second drive mechanisms; (b) each of said drive wheels is connected to a respective one of said first and second drive motors via a respective one of said first and second drive mechanisms; and (c) said first and second drive motors and said first and second drive mechanisms are connected to said platform; whereby (d) when said platform is pivoted upward, said drive motors and said drive mechanisms are pivoted toward said second support wheel, causing the center of gravity of said vehicle to shift to a point between said drive wheels and said second support wheel. 8. A vehicle as in claim 7, wherein: (a) said vehicle housing is also pivotable with respect to said platform; whereby (b) when said second support wheel encounters an obstacle, said housing pivots forward toward said first support wheel, causing the center of gravity of said vehicle to shift to a point between said main wheels and said first support wheel. 9. A vehicle as in claim 1, wherein: (a) said vehicle housing comprises a fixed housing and at least one modular assembly removably attached to said fixed housing. 10. A vehicle as in claim 9, wherein: (a) said vehicle housing further comprises a modular sensor panel surrounding a portion of said modular assembly. 11. A vehicle as in claim 10, wherein: (a) said modular sensor panel comprises a plurality of interchangeable sensor units. 12. A vehicle as in claim 9, and wherein: (a) said modular assembly includes a telescoping inspection assembly. 13. A vehicle as in claim 12, wherein: (a) said telescoping inspection assembly includes a motor driven telescoping shaft adapted to raise and lower a support positioned near the top thereof. 14. A vehicle as in claim 13, wherein: (a) said telescoping inspection assembly includes a video camera mounted on said support. 15. A vehicle as in claim 14, wherein: (a) said support includes means for selectively rotating said support both vertically and horizontally with respect to a remainder of the vehicle. 16. A vehicle as in claim 12, wherein: (a) said modular assembly comprises a remotely controllable robotic arm. 17. A vehicle as in claim 16, wherein: (a) said remotely controllable robotic arm comprises an inspection camera mounted thereon. 18. A robotic vehicle comprising: (a) a vehicle housing; (b) an articulating support and drive assembly including four wheels, said assembly including: (i) first and second drive wheels, each of which are independently powered; (ii) first and second support wheels with said first support wheel positioned in front of said drive wheels and said second support wheel positioned behind said drive wheels; (iii) a platform which is adapted to be pivotable with respect to said vehicle housing, said first support wheel and both of said drive wheels being rigidly attached to said pivotable platform; (d) said second support wheel being rigidly connected to said vehicle housing; whereby (e) when said first support wheel encounters an object, said platform pivots upward relative to said housing such that said first support wheel is raised. 19. A vehicle as in claim 18, wherein: (a) said vehicle further comprises first and second drive motors and first and second drive mechanisms; (b) each of said drive wheels are connected to a respective one of said first and second drive motors via respective first and second drive mechanisms; and (c) said first and second drive motors and said first and second drive mechanisms are connected to said platform; whereby (d) when said platform is pivoted upward, said drive motors and said drive mechanisms are pivoted toward said second support wheel, causing the center of gravity of said vehicle to shift to a point between said drive wheels and said second support wheel. 20. A vehicle as in claim 19, wherein: (a) said vehicle housing is also pivotable with respect to said platform; whereby (b) when said second support wheel encounters said obstacle, said housing pivots forward toward said first support wheel, causing the center of gravity of said vehicle to shift to a point between said drive wheels and said first support wheel. 21. A vehicle as in claim 18, wherein: (a) said support wheels are free castering, whereby said vehicle can be rotated in an area having approximately the same diameter as the width of the vehicle. 22. A vehicle as in claim 18, wherein: (a) said housing includes a compartment which is positioned below the center of gravity of said vehicle; and (b) one or more batteries are located in said compartment. 23. A robotic vehicle comprising: (a) a vehicle housing; (b) an articulating support and drive assembly including four wheels, said assembly being adapted to support said vehicle by maintaining at least three of said wheels in a supporting position when said vehicle is traversing an obstacle; and (c) means for shifting the center of gravity of said vehicle over the three wheels which are in a supporting position when said vehicle is traversing said obstacle. 24. A robotic inspection vehicle comprising: (a) a vehicle housing; (b) a vehicle platform which is pivotable with respect to said housing; (c) an articulating support and drive assembly including four wheels, said assembly being adapted to support said vehicle by maintaining at least three of said wheels in a supporting position when said vehicle is traversing an obstacle, two of said wheels comprising respective first and second drive wheels, each of which are independently powered, and the remaining two of said wheels comprising respective first and second free castering support wheels; (d) said first support wheel and both of said drive wheels being attached to said platform and said second support wheel being connected to said housing; whereby (e) when said first support wheel encounters an object, said platform pivots upward relative to said housing such that said first support wheel is raised. 25. A vehicle as in claim 24, wherein: (a) said vehicle further comprises first and second drive motors and first and second drive mechanisms; (b) each of said drive wheels is connected to a respective one of said first and second drive motors via a respective one of said first and second drive mechanisms; and (c) said first and second drive motors and said first and second drive mechanisms are connected to said platform; whereby (d) when said platform is pivoted upward, said drive motors and said drive mechanisms are pivoted toward said second support wheel, causing the center of gravity of said vehicle to shift to a point between said drive wheels and said second support wheel. 26. A vehicle as in claim 25, wherein: (a) said vehicle housing is also pivotable with respect to said platform; whereby (b) when said second support wheel encounters an obstacle, said housing pivots forward toward said first support wheel, causing the center of gravity of said vehicle to shift to a point between said main wheels and said first support wheel. 27. A robotic vehicle comprising: (a) a vehicle housing; (b) first and second drive motors and first and second drive mechanisms; (c) an articulating support and drive assembly including four wheels, said assembly including: (i) first and second drive wheels, each of which are independently powered via a respective one of said drive motors and drive mechanisms; (ii) first and second support wheels with said first support wheel positioned in front of said drive wheels and said second support wheel positioned behind said drive wheels; (iii) a platform which is pivotable with respect to said vehicle housing, said first support wheel and both of said drive wheels being attached to said pivotable platform; (d) said second support wheel being connected to said vehicle housing, said vehicle housing also being pivotable with respect to said platform and (e) said first and second drive motors and said first and second drive mechanisms being connected to said platform; whereby (f) when said first support wheel encounters an object, said platform pivots upward relative to said housing such that said first support wheel is raised and when said platform is pivoted upward, said drive motors and said drive mechanisms are pivoted toward said second support wheel, causing the center of gravity of said vehicle to shift to a point between said drive wheels and said second support wheel and when said second support wheel encounters said obstacle, said housing pivots forward toward said first support wheel, causing the center of gravity of said vehicle to shift to a point between said main wheels and said first support wheel. 28. A vehicle as in claim 27, wherein: (a) said housing includes a compartment which is positioned below the center of gravity of said vehicle; and (b) one or more batteries are located in said compartment. 