A method is provided for removing material from a structure having at least one layer of material formed on a substrate. The method includes the steps of irradiating a target area of a structure with radiant energy sufficient to break or weaken chemical bonds in the material, and impinging the target area with a particle stream to remove the pyrolyzed material from the structure. The method may be implemented by a system comprising a housing having a window; a radiant energy source mounted in the housing for irradiating the target area of the structure with the radiant energy; and a nozzle mounted to the exterior of the housing for directing the stream of particles at the target area.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of removing material from a structure having a substrate covered with at least one layer of material, the method comprising the steps of: irradiating a portion of the material with radiant energy to heat the material sufficiently to break molecular bonds in the material and impinging the structure with a particle stream of frozen gas particles sufficiently close to the irradiating step to cool the substrate, maintaining the substrate at a temperature substantially below the temperature of the heated material, the particle stream also acting to remove the heated material from the substrate. 2. A method for removing material from a structure, comprising the steps of: (1) irradiating a target area of a structure having at least one layer of material formed on a substrate with radiant energy having an intensity sufficient to pyrolyze the material, weakening the chemical bonds in the material and between the material and the substrate; and (2) impinging said pyrolyzed material with particle stream having a temperature below ambient temperature in order to prevent overheating of the substrate to remove said pyrolyzed material from said structure. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of irradiating includes irradiating said structure without permanently changing the modulus of elasticity, shear strength, and tensile strength of said substrate. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of irradiating said structure includes generating said radiant energy with a flashlamp to produce optical energy. 5. The method of claim 4 further including the step of scanning said optical energy and said particle stream over said structure at a scan speed. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of generating radiant energy includes generating said optical energy at a periodic repetition rate and pulse width. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the step of irradiating includes irradiating said structure with said optical energy at an incidence intensity ranging up to about 30 joules/cm.sup.2. 8. The method of claim 7 further including the step of controlling the temperatures of said material and said substrate by varying the distance between said surface and said flashlamp. 9. The method of claim 8 further including the step of controlling the temperature of said material and said substrate by varying said scan speed. 10. The method of claim 9 further including the step of controlling the temperatures of said material and said substrate by controlling the mass flow rate of said particle stream. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of impinging includes impinging said structure with a stream of gas. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of impinging includes impinging said structure with a stream of inert gas. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of impinging includes impinging said structure with air. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of impinging includes impinging said structure with a stream of liquid. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of impinging includes impinging said structure with water. 16. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of impinging includes impinging said structure with a stream of solid particles entrained in a gas. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of impinging includes impinging said structure with carbon dioxide pellets. 18. The method of claim 10 further including the step of scanning said surface of said structure with a vacuum system to collect said removed particles. 19. A method for removing material from a structure comprising the steps of: (1) irradiating a target area on the surface of a structure having at least one layer of material formed on a substrate with radiant energy having an intensity sufficient to pyrolyze the material, weakening chemical bonds in the material and between the material and the substrate without permanently changing the modules of elasticity, shear strength, and tensile strength of said substrate; (2) impinging said pyrolyzed material with a particle stream having a temperature below ambient temperature in order to prevent overheating of the substrate to remove said pyrolyzed material from said structure; (3) collecting said removed pyrolyzed material; and (4) scanning said radiant energy and said particle stream over said structure to advance the target area to remove said material along a path on said structure. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the step of irradiating said structure includes generating said radiant energy with a flashlamp to produce optical energy. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the step of generating said optical energy includes generating optical energy at a periodic repetition rate. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the step of impinging includes impinging the pyrolyzed material in said target area with said particle stream while said target area is being irradiated by said optical energy. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein the step of impinging includes impinging said pyrolyzed material with said particle stream after said target area has been irradiated with said optical energy. 24. The method according to claim 1 wherein the particle stream maintains the temperature of the substrate sufficiently low to prevent permanent changes in the modulus of elasticity, shear strength, and tensile strength of the substrate. 25. The method according to claim 1 wherein the particle stream comprises a stream of frozen CO.sub.2 particles. 26. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of irradiating a portion of the material includes generating the radiant energy with a flashlamp to produce optical energy. 27. The method according to claim 26 further including the step of scanning said optical energy and said particle stream over said structure at a scan speed. 28. The method according to claim 27 wherein the step of generating radiant energy includes generating the optical energy at a periodic repetition rate and pulse width. 29. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of irradiating includes irradiating the material with optical energy at an incidence intensity ranging up to about 30 joules/cm.sup.2. 30. The method according to claim 1 further including the step of controlling the temperatures of the material and the substrate by controlling the mass flow rate of the particle stream. 31. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of impinging includes impinging the structure with frozen carbon dioxide pellets. 32. The method according to claim 1 further including the step of scanning the surface of the structure with a vacuum system to collect material removed from the substrate. 33. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of impinging includes impinging the heated material with the particle stream while the material is being irradiated. 34. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of impinging includes impinging the heated material with the particle stream after the material has been irradiated. 35. The method according to claim 1 wherein the radiant energy is light. 36. The method according to claim 35 wherein the light is pulsed. 37. The method according to claim 36 wherein the pulsed light is generated with a flashlamp. 38. The method according to claim 1 wherein the particles comprise frozen particles of at least one gas selected from the group consisting of Ne, Ar, and CO.sub.2. 39. A method for removing material form a structure comprising the steps of: (1) irradiating a target area on the surface of a structure having at least one layer of material formed on a substrate with radiant energy having an intensity sufficient to pyrolyze said material, weakening chemical bonds in the material and between said material and said substrate; (2) impinging said pyrolyzed material with a particle stream having a temperature below ambient temperature in order to prevent overheating of the substrate to remove said pyrolyzed material from said substrate; (3) scanning said surface of said structure with said radiant energy and said particle stream along a predetermined path at a scan speed; (4) detecting the optical character of said surface of said structure along said scanned surface of said structure and generating an electronic output signal corresponding to said optical character; (5) determining an updated scan speed functionally related to said electronic output signal; (6) directing said scan speed to be equal to said updated scan speed; and (7) repeating steps (1)-(6) if said radiant energy and said particle stream have not scanned the entirety of said predetermined path. 40. The method of claim 39 including the step of relating said updated scan speed to said electronic output signal by a monotonic increasing function, where said scan speed is a minimum scan speed if said electronic output signal is equal to or less than a first threshold value, and said scan speed is a maximum scan speed if said electronic output signal is equal to or greater than a second threshold value. 41. The method of claim 40 wherein the step of irradiating includes irradiating said structure without changing the modulus of elasticity, shear strength, and tensile strength of said substrate. 42. The method of claim 41 wherein the step of irradiating said structure includes generating said radiant energy with a flashlamp to produce optical energy. 43. The method of claim 42 wherein the step of generating radiant energy includes generating said optical energy at a periodic repetition rate. 44. The method of claim 43 wherein the step of irradiating includes irradiating said structure with said optical energy at an incidence intensity ranging up to about 30 joules/cm.sup.2. 45. The method of claim 44 further including the step of scanning said surface of said structure with a vacuum system to collect said removed particles and said particle stream after said particle stream impinges said structure. 46. A method of removing material from a structure having a substrate covered with at least one layer of material, the method comprising the steps of: irradiating a portion of the material with radiant energy sufficient to substantially pyrolyze that portion of the material without substantially ablating the material from the substrate; impinging the pyrolyzed portion of the material with a particle stream having a temperature below ambient temperature in order to prevent overheating of the substrate to remove the pyrolyzed material before the material has had time to recover. 47. The method according to claim 46 wherein the radiant energy is light. 48. The method according to claim 47 wherein the light is pulsed. 49. The method according to claim 48 wherein the pulsed light is generated with a flashlamp. 50. The method according to claim 46 wherein the particle stream comprises frozen particles of substances that are gaseous at normal atmospheric temperatures. 51. The method according to claim 46 wherein the particles comprise frozen particles of at least one gas selected from the group consisting of He, Ne, Ar, and CO.sub.2. 52. The method according to claim 46 wherein the particle stream comprises frozen particles of CO.sub.2. 53. The method according to claim 46 wherein the step of irradiating a portion of the material comprises irradiating a target area on the material and successively advancing the target area along a path on the structure. 54. A method of removing material from a structure having a substrate covered by at least one layer of material, the method comprising the steps of: applying pulsed light to a portion of the material sufficient to substantially pyrolyze the portion of the material without substantially ablating the material from the substrate; impinging the pyrolyzed portion of the material with a particle stream having a temperature below ambient temperature in order to prevent overheating of the structure to remove the pyrolyzed material before the material has had time to recover. 55. The method according to claim 54 wherein the pulsed light is applied with a flashlamp. 56. The method according to claim 54 wherein the particle stream comprises frozen particles of CO.sub.2. 57. A method for removing material from a structure having at least one layer of material formed on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: providing a source of pulsed light; scanning the light source at a selected scan speed along a path on the structure to apply pulsed light to successively advancing target areas in the path to substantially pyrolyze the material in the target area without substantially ablating the material from the substrate; and impinging the pyrolyzed material in the path with a particle stream having a temperature below ambient temperature in order to prevent overheating of the structure to remove the pyrolyzed material from the path. 58. The method according to claim 57 further comprising the step of monitoring the completeness of the material removal from the path, and adjusting the scan speed based upon the monitoring. 59. The method according to claim 58 wherein the step of monitoring the completeness of the material removed comprises measuring an electrical property of the substrate in the path, and adjusting the scan speed according to the measured electrical property. 60. The method according to claim 57 wherein the particle stream is directed to impinge a footprint on the structure that overlaps at least a portion of the current target area of the light source. 61. The method according to claim 57 wherein the particle stream is directed to impinge a footprint on the structure adjacent to, but not overlapping the target area of the light source. 