A method and system for transfer of fluids, such as paint, using a fluid canister carried by a transfer device, such as a robot, instead of having paint lines connected to a delivery device, such as a spray gun, carried by the robot. A novel mechanism for initially docking and then filling the canister from a fluid outlet of a pressurized source of fluid without straining the robot is provided. Also, a novel mechanism for cleaning the canister between canister fillings is provided so that paint colors can be changed without loss of productive robot time. In one embodiment, the canister is integrated with the robot. Also, a novel, non-contact sensor is provided for providing a signal to allow the metering of the paint entering or/and discharged from the canister.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for robotically transferring fluid from a pressurized source of fluid, the system comprising: an outlet valve having self-closing means and adapted for fluid communication with the pressurized source of fluid; a robot having a wrist; a delivery device for the fluid mounted on the wrist to move therewith; a reservoir including an inlet valve having self-closing means and a filling port for the fluid, the reservoir being supported on the robot for fluid communication with the delivery device; and actuating means independent of the inlet and outlet valves for sealingly mating and then opening the inlet and outlet valves to fluidly communicate the filling port of the reservoir with the fluid outlet of the pressurized source of fluid to permit the reservoir to be filled with fluid from the pressurized source of fluid. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the actuating means opens the inlet and outlet valves substantially simultaneously. 3. The system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the actuating means allows the inlet and outlet valves to be closed substantially simultaneously. 4. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the actuating means is movable between a home position, a sealing position in which the actuating means applies a sealing force for mating the inlet and outlet valves and an actuating position in which the actuating means opens the inlet and outlet valves. 5. The system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the actuating means moves the inlet and outlet valves in tandem as the actuating means moves from its sealing position towards its actuating position. 6. The system as claimed in claim 4 wherein each of the self-closing means of the inlet and outlet valves includes biasing means to bias the respective valves to their respective closed positions, each of the biasing means moving its respective valve in tandem with the actuating means when the actuating means moves from its actuating position towards its home position. 7. The system as claimed in claim 4 further comprising sealing means for sealing the inlet and outlet valves in the actuating position of the actuating means. 8. The system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 7 wherein the actuating means is mounted on the robot in alignment with the inlet valve. 9. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the actuating means has a protective position and wherein the system further comprises seal means for sealing the actuating means and the inlet valve to sealingly protect the inlet valve from contamination in the protective position of the actuating means. 10. The system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 9 wherein the actuating means is mounted on the reservoir in alignment with the inlet valve. 11. The system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 9 wherein the system further comprises a pressurized source of cleaning fluid having a fluid outlet and wherein the actuating means has a cleaning position in which the actuating means opens the inlet valve to fluidly communicate the filling port of the reservoir and the fluid outlet of the pressurized source of cleaning fluid to clean the reservoir. 12. The system as claimed in claim 1 where the wrist is hollow and has an output drive axis and wherein the reservoir is mounted on the wrist and has a longitudinal axis coincident with the output drive axis. 13. The system as claimed in claim 12 wherein the reservoir has a plurality of longitudinally extending control apertures extending therethrough for communicating a control fluid therethrough from the hollow wrist to the delivery device to control the delivery device. 14. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the actuating means has a cleaning position in which the actuating means opens the inlet valve and wherein the system further comprises: a pressurized source of cleaning fluid with a fluid outlet and means for fluidly communicating the filling port of the reservoir and the fluid outlet of the pressurized source of cleaning fluid in the cleaning position of the actuating means to clean the reservoir. 15. The system as claimed in claim 14 wherein the means for fluidly communicating the filling port includes means for fluidly communicating the fluid outlet of the pressurized source of cleaning fluid to the actuating means; and means for fluidly communicating the actuating means to the filling port of the reservoir. 16. The system of claim 1 where at least one of the inlet and outlet valves is a poppet valve. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein both of the inlet and outlet valves are poppet valves which are adapted to be sealingly mated by the actuating means without relative motion between the inlet and outlet valves. 18. The system of claim 1 wherein the actuating means is adapted to be externally energized. 19. A system for robotically transferring fluid from a pressurized source of fluid, the system comprising: an outlet valve adapted for fluid communication with the pressurized source of fluid; a robot having a wrist; a delivery device for the fluid mounted on the wrist to move therewith; a reservoir including an inlet valve and a filling port for the fluid, the reservoir being supported on the robot for fluid communication with the delivery device; and actuating means for sealingly mating and then opening the inlet and outlet valves to fluidly communicate the filling port of the reservoir with the fluid outlet of the pressurized source of fluid to permit the reservoir to be filled with fluid from the pressurized source of fluid and wherein the wrist is hollow and has an output drive axis and wherein the reservoir is mounted on the wrist and has a longitudinal axis coincident with the output drive axis. 20. The system as claimed in claim 19 wherein the reservoir has a plurality of longitudinally extending control apertures extending therethrough for communicating a control fluid therethrough from the hollow wrist to the delivery device to control the delivery device. 