A modular product assembly platform which includes a multiple number of industrial robots or other similar assembly devices which are removably mounted on a specially designed platform deck. The product assembly platform also includes a programmable controller system housed in a logic control cabinet, a vision control system housed in a vision control cabinet and a set of robot controllers which operate together to control the robots or assembly devices for performing product assembly tasks. The mechanical layout and configuration of the platform and the control equipment provide for convenience and flexibility in configuring and reconfiguring the assembly platform for different assembly procedures associated with different products.
Claims I claim: 1. A modular manufacturing platform for use in automated industrial plants, comprising: a) a raised deck having a perimeter and including means for detachably anchoring a plurality of automated manufacturing units anywhere onto said deck; b) a plurality of automated manufacturing units secured onto said deck by said means for detachably anchoring; c) a plurality of mounting bays located under said deck for removably mounting special purpose machine controllers; d) a plurality of special purpose machine controllers mounted in said bays for controlling said manufacturing units; e) a power supply cabinet attached to one side of said deck for housing power distribution and switching gear; f) a set of power distribution and switching gear adapted for providing power and switching functions for equipment on said platform; g) a control console attached to one side of said deck in proximity to said power supply cabinet for providing and enabling control of said manufacturing units by a human operator; h) one or more elongate conduits attached along the perimeter of said deck for housing electrical connection gear for interconnecting equipment on said platform; i) a conveyance system for transporting products under assembly across said deck past said manufacturing units; j) a control cabinet attached to one end of said deck for housing a general purpose programmable controller; and k) a general purpose programmable controller housed in said control cabinet and coupled to said manufacturing units, special purpose machine controllers, control console and conveyance system for regulating and coordinating the overall operation and interaction of said manufacturing units and said conveyance system. 2. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, further including a machine vision cabinet attached to the other end of said deck opposite from said control cabinet for housing a machine vision module and further including a user configurable machine vision module installed in said machine vision cabinet having a control unit coupled to said programmable controller for use in identifying and locating parts in coordination with the operation of one or more of said manufacturing units. 3. The manufacturing platform of claim 2, wherein said elongate conduits control cabinet, power supply cabinet and machine vision cabinet comprise an enclosed pathway for connection gear extending continuously all the way around the perimeter of said deck. 4. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, further including an air manifold for supply of pneumatic power to said manufacturing units which is attached along the perimeter of said deck. 5. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, wherein said automated manufacturing units comprise industrial robots having movable robot arms and tools attached thereto and said special purpose controllers comprise robot controllers adapted for controlling the geographical positioning of said arms. 6. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, wherein said power distribution and switching gear include one or more transformers and one or more electrical control contactors. 7. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, wherein said console includes a plurality of pushbuttons and an alphanumeric display mounted in a separate enclosure on top of said power supply cabinet. 8. The manufacturing platform of claim 7, further including a message display unit mounted at an overhead position above said control console which is coupled to said programmable controller. 9. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, wherein said bays include slidable trays for supporting said special purpose machine controllers which are adapted for sliding out from under said deck. 10. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, wherein said one or more elongate conduits contain terminal strips and a plurality of contact blocks mounted on said terminal strips. 11. A modular product assembly platform, comprising: a deck having a perimeter for detachably mounting a plurality of industrial assembly machines; means for mounting said industrial assembly machines onto said deck including: a) a set of rails attached to said deck having a modified T shape with an inclined face on one lateral side and a notched face on its other lateral side, b) a plurality of pedestals on which said assembly machines are permanently secured each of which has a base-plate and first and second brackets bolted onto the bottom of said base plate, said first bracket having an inclined face for mating with an inclined face on one of said rails and said second bracket having a notched face for mating with a notched face on a different one of said rails; a control cabinet attached to one end of said deck for housing a programmable controller for regulating and coordinating the operation of said assembly machines; one or more elongate conduits running along the perimeter of said deck for housing communication gear; a plurality of mounting bays located underneath said deck for mounting special purpose machine controllers. 12. The product assembly platform of claim 11, further including a machine vision cabinet attached to the other end of said deck opposite from said control cabinet for housing a machine vision module. 13. The product assembly platform of claim 12, further including a power supply cabinet attached to one side of said deck for housing power supply and switching gear. 14. The product assembly platform of claim 13, wherein said elongate conduits, control cabinet, machine vision cabinet, and power supply cabinet comprise an enclosed pathway for connection gear extending all the way around the perimeter of said deck. 15. A robotic module for use in flexible industrial assembly systems, comprising: a raised deck having a perimeter for mounting said industrial assembly units; a plurality of industrial assembly units mounted on a raised deck; a plurality of bays located under said deck including special purpose controllers for controlling said assembly units; a plurality of connector cabinets secured along the perimeter of said deck for housing electrical connection gear for use in servicing said assembly units; a power supply and operator interface cabinet secured to one side of said deck for mounting power supplies and for mounting one or more operator interface panels; and a control cabinet secured to one side of said deck including a general purpose programmable controller for controlling said assembly units. 16. The robotic module of claim 15, wherein said connector cabinets form a contiguous conduit all around the perimeter of said deck for housing said electrical connection gear. 17. The robotic module of claim 15, further including a vision control cabinet secured along secured along another side of said deck including a user configurable vision system for use in identifying and locating products or parts. 