An optoelectronic sub-module (100,200) having a major surface (103,203)and an edge surface (104) with electrical tracings (116) disposed on the major surface (103,203). A light transmitting device (114) having a working portion is mounted on the major surface (103,203) with the working portion of the light transmitting device (114) directed perpendicularly to the edge surface (104) of the sub-module (100,200), and wherein the light transmitting device (114) is connected to at least one of the electrical tracings (116). An angled reflective surface (109) is formed between the major and edge surfaces. A photodetector (118) having a working portion is positioned on the major surface (103,203) with the working portion of the photodetector (118) positioned over the angled surface (109).
Claims I claim: 1. An optoelectronic sub-module comprising: a unitary molded plastic element having a major surface and an edge surface; electrical tracings disposed on the unitary molded plastic element; a light transmitting device having a working portion, the light transmitting device joined to the molded plastic element, the working portion of the light transmitting device directed perpendicularly to the edge surface of the unitary molded plastic element, and the light transmitting device connected to at least one of the electrical tracings; an angled reflective surface transecting the major surface and the edge surface of the unitary molded plastic element; and a photodetector having a working portion, the photodetector positioned on the major surface with the working portion of the photodetector positioned over the angled surface, and with the photodetector connected to at least one of the electrical tracings. 2. An optoelectronic sub-module as claimed in claim 1 wherein the light transmitting device is an edge emitting laser. 3. An optoelectronic sub-module as claimed in claim 1 wherein the photodetector having a working portion is a p-i-n photodiode. 4. An optoelectronic sub-module as claimed in claim 1 wherein the angled reflective surface transecting the major surface and the edge surface is coated with a reflective material. 5. An optoelectronic sub-module as claimed in claim 1 further comprising an alignment ferrule located in the edge surface of the molded element. 6. An optoelectronic sub-module as claimed in claim 5 further comprising: an optical connector having a body that surrounds a plurality of optical fibers with an alignment guide for inserting into the alignment ferrule of the optoelectronic sub-module to position at least one of the plurality of optical fibers in optical alignment with the working portion of the light transmitting device. 7. An optoelectronic sub-module as claimed in claim 1 further comprising an integrated circuit mounted on the major surface of the molded element. 8. An optoelectronic sub-module comprising: a unitary molded plastic element having a major surface and an edge surface; electrical tracings disposed onto the unitary molded plastic element; a light transmitting device having a working portion, the light transmitting device joined to the unitary molded plastic element, the working portion of the light transmitting device directed perpendicularly to the edge surface of the molded plastic element, and the light transmitting device connected to at least one of the electrical tracings; an angled reflective surface transecting the major surface and the edge surface of the unitary molded plastic element, the angled surface being positioned to receive light directed in a plane parallel with the edge and to reflect the received light generally perpendicular to the major surface; and a photodetector having a working portion, the photodetector positioned on the major surface with the working portion of the photodetector positioned over the angled surface to receive reflected light from the angled reflective surface, and with the photodetector connected to at least one of the electrical tracings. 9. An optoelectronic sub-module as claimed in claim 8 wherein the light transmitting device is an edge emitting laser. 10. An optoelectronic sub-module as claimed in claim 8 wherein the photodetector having a working portion is a p-i-n photodiode. 11. An optoelectronic sub-module as claimed in claim 8 wherein the angled reflective surface is coated with a reflective material. 12. An optoelectronic sub-module as claimed in claim 8 further comprising an alignment ferrule located on the edge surface of the molded element. 13. An optoelectronic sub-module as claimed in claim 12 further comprising a connector having a body that surrounds a plurality of optical fibers with an alignment guide for inserting into the alignment ferule of the optoelectronic sub-module to position at least one of the plurality of the optical fibers to the working portion the photodetector. 14. An optoelectronic sub-module as claimed in claim 8 further comprising an integrated circuit mounted on the major surface of the molded element. 15. A molded optoelectronic waveguide module comprising: a unitary molded plastic optical portion having a major surface, a first edge surface, a second edge surface with a facet, and having a first waveguide and a second waveguide embedded into the unitary molded plastic optical portion, wherein the first waveguide extends from the first edge surface to the facet, and wherein the second waveguide extends from the first edge surface to the second edge surface; electrical tracings disposed on the major surface of the unitary molded plastic optical portion; an edge emitting laser having a working portion, the working portion of the edge emitting laser directed into the facet on the second edge surface, the edge emitting laser connected to at least one of the electrical tracings; and a photodetector having a working portion, the working portion of the photodetector directed into an end of the second waveguide, the photodetector connected to at least one of the electrical tracings. 16. A molded optoelectronic waveguide module as claimed in claim 15 wherein the photodetector having a working portion is a p-i-n photodetector. 17. A molded optoelectronic waveguide module as claimed in claim 15 further comprising an integrated circuit mounted on the major surface of the molded optical portion. 18. A molded optoelectronic waveguide module as claimed in claim 15 further comprising an alignment ferrule locate on the first edge surface of the molded optical portion. 19. A molded optoelectronic waveguide module as claimed in claim 15 wherein the second edge surface with a facet is formed with the facet in an opening in the molded optical portion. 20. A molded optoelectronic waveguide module as claimed in claim 15 further comprising: a photonic device operably engaged with the second waveguide on the second edge surface. 