An autonomous apparatus for automatically cleaning ground areas including various cleaning tools and a control mechanism for directing the apparatus along a prescribed path over a preselected area to be claimed in response to the execution of a series of instructions stored in a computer memory or the apparatus. The control mechanism includes a sensor for detecting proximity of the apparatus to a fixed reference point for initiating execution of the series of instructions, and a positioning system for determining the instantaneous position of the apparatus relative to fixed reference beacons.
Claims We claim: 1. Autonomous apparatus for automatically cleaning ground areas, comprising a support frame of the type comprising known tools adapted to said cleaning, propulsion and steering means by wheels, an electrical supply by on-board battery, various converters and relays, and control levers allowing operation of said tools and said propulsion and steering means, which apparatus is covered with a protecting body and comprises an electronic system of micro-computer type composed of at least one microprocessor, a fixed read-only memory, an erasable memory and various input/output cards connected in particular to the various components allowing operation and start-up of said tools and propulsion and steering means, fixed distance monitoring sensors and at least one initialization sensor, which sensors are connected to at least one of said input/output cards and are placed on said protecting body, further comprising a console on which said control levers are grouped, said console presenting a display and a keyboard, and said console being connected to a specific input/output card of the microprocessor, which read-only memory of the electronic system is loaded with a program ensuring, on the one hand, permanently and in known and automatic manner, the management of all the input/output interface cards and of all the equipment connected to said cards, and on the other hand, as required and successively in several places and for different tasks, a learning phase by memorization of a cleaning task made manually in a first step, then a phase of execution by repetition of this recorded cleaning task, and this in automatic manner even in the case of an unexpected obstacle detected by said distance monitoring sensors and from the same reference point on which said initialization sensor is reset at the beginning of each execution of the same task on the same learnt path, which apparatus comprises a known positioning system compatible with fixed reference beacons located near the ground area to be cleaned and from which, and at any chosen moment, said apparatus is positioned on said ground area. 2. The autonomous apparatus for automatically cleaning ground area of claim 1, wherein said erasable memory is constituted by a copy card on which is connected any interchangeable recording support of magnetic diskette type or other erasable memory of "RAM" type so that several tasks may be recorded and reproduced by simple change of said erasable memory support. 3. The autonomous apparatus for automatically cleaning ground areas of claim 1, comprising a video camera of any known type and a wave emitter for transmitting images taken by said camera to a monitoring station presenting a compatible receiver. 4. The autonomous apparatus for automatically cleaning ground areas of claim 1, wherein said console for monitoring and controlling the apparatus comprises at least one forward and reverse operation lever, a right and left direction change lever, a keyboard with at least six keys for monitoring the functions of said program of orders of tasks, and a display of at least 3 lines of which the first displays at the moment in question said functions and orders then allocated to said keys, the second displays the questions and messages edited by the electronic system as said program progresses and the third displays the reply and the order entered by the operator. 5. The autonomous apparatus for automatically cleaning ground areas of claim 1, wherein said monitoring console comprises a location for connecting said interchangeable recording support thereto. 6. The autonomous apparatus for automatically cleaning ground areas of claim 1, wherein said on-board batteries ensuring electrical supply deliver a voltage of 48 volts and allow normal operation of the apparatus for at least 4 hours. 7. The autonomous apparatus for automatically cleaning ground areas of claim 1, including a lateral brush mounted on an extensible arm wherein the extensible arm of the lateral brush is such that it ensures a sweeping along a wall at about 30 cm from the apparatus, which distance being monitored by at least three fixed distance monitoring sensors located on the same side and allowing servo-control of the path of the apparatus, such that its axle remains parallel along said wall and at constant distance. 8. The autonomous apparatus for automatically cleaning ground areas of claim 1, wherein said control console includes a microprocessor which manages the information entered by the operator in this console and that generated by the electronic system for the display and the allocation of the functions of the keyboard, which microprocessor replaces the specific interface card and allows the connection of said console by a series line directly to the microprocessor. 9. The autonomous apparatus for automatically cleaning ground areas of claim 1, wherein the separation surfaces between the front part of the tool unit and the rear part may be in the form of staircase constituted for example by chassis plate with a plane step receiving the bearing efforts comprising a system for centering and retaining between the two parts of which one contains for example at least one female part and the other a compatible male piece. 10. The autonomous apparatus for automatically cleaning ground areas of claim 1, comprising a manoeuvering handle retractable in the body and associated with a disengagement control which automatically disengages the driving wheels when said handle is pulled in order to disengage it from said body. 