A combined toy capable of permitting a user to enjoy play full of unexpectedness and/or novelty. The combined toy includes a toy body constituted by a trunk, and attachments including a head, arms and legs detachably combined with the trunk. Combining between the trunk and the attachments is carried out using magnetic force. Also, a sound producing unit and a light emitting unit are provided in the toy body and/or attachments so as to be actuated when the attachments each are combined with the toy body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A combined toy comprising: a toy body; at least one attachment detachably combined with said toy body; means for attaching the toy body and the attachment including a magnet, a pair of conductive elements sandwiching the magnet, and a semispherical electrically conductive member, which will be attracted by the magnetic force field to adhere to the conductive elements; a stimulus producing means for producing at least one predetermined stimulus appealing to the sensitory senses of a human; and circuit means for interconnecting the means for attaching and the stimulus producing means so that the connection of the semispherical electrically conductive member will activate the stimulus producing means, said stimulus producing means being provided in at least one of said toy body and attachment so as to be actuated when said attachment is combined with said toy body. 2. A combined toy as defined in claim 1, wherein said stimulus producing means comprises at least one of a sound producing unit and a light emitting unit. 3. A combined toy as defined in claim 2, wherein combination of said attachment with said toy body permits said sound producing unit to produce a sound indicative of said combination. 4. A combined toy as defined in claim 3, wherein said combination further permits said light emitting unit to emit light. 5. A combined toy as defined in claim 1, wherein said combined toy is an imitation of a robot. 6. A combined toy as defined in claim 5, wherein a plurality, of said attachments are combined with said toy body. 7. A combined toy as defined in claim 6, wherein said toy body comprises a trunk; and said attachments comprise a head, a pair of arms, and a pair of legs. 8. A robotic humanoid toy comprising: a toy trunk body; a plurality of attachments, including a head, a pair of arms and a pair of legs, detachably combined with the toy trunk body; and a stimulus producing means for producing predetermined stimulus perceivably by a human, including a selecting means for selecting a different stimulus to be produced corresponding to each particular attachment combined with the toy trunk body so that, when one of the attachments is connected to the toy trunk body, the stimulus producing means produces a stimulus which corresponds to that attachment. 9. A robotic humanoid as defined in claim 8, wherein said stimulus producing means comprises at least one of a sound producing unit and a light emitting unit. 10. A robotic humanoid toy as defined in claim 9, wherein a combination of at least one attachment with said toy trunk body further permits said light emitting unit to emit light. 11. A robotic humanoid toy as defined in claim 8, wherein a combination of said attachments with said toy trunk body is carried out by magnetic force. 12. A combined toy comprising: a toy body; at least one attachment detachably combined with said toy body; means for attaching the toy body and the attachments, including a pair of conductive elements, a semispherical electrically conductive member and means for providing a magnetic force field to hold the respective pairs of conductive elements and semispherical electrically conductive member together; a stimulus producing means for producing at least one predetermined stimulus appealing to the sensitory senses of a human; and circuit means for interconnecting the means for attaching and the stimulus producing means so that the connection of the semispherical electrically conductive member will activate the stimulus producing means, said stimulus producing means being provided in at least one of said toy body and attachment so as to be actuated when said attachment is combined with said toy body. 