A plurality of flexible cylindrical members, termed flex-gears and having gear tooth type perimeters are located in an annular space between two concentric rotating gear members, one an inner gear member and the other an outer ring gear member, both of which have mutually facing toothed surfaces which engage the flex-gears. The flex-gears rotate and orbit around the annular space as planetary gears when the inner and outer gear members rotate with respect to one another. Pairs of these elements located in two mutually parallel planes and separated by insulators provide two electrical conductor paths across which an electrical signal source, AC or DC, can be connected and coupled to an electrical device. Alternatively, one set of elements including outer gears segmented into mutually insulated semicircles and inner gears segmented into mutually insulated quadrants can be used.
Claims I claim: 1. A gear system for providing both mechanical and electrical transfer of energy, comprising: an outer gear member having an inner toothed surface of a predetermined first diameter; an inner gear member concentric and substantially coplanar with said outer gear member and having an outer toothed surface of a predetermined second diameter, said first diameter being greater than said second whereby an annular space is generated between said toothed surfaces; and a plurality of planetary flex-gear members each comprising a circular cylindrical band of flexible material shaped to include a set of gear teeth for meshing with said inner and outer toothed surfaces, said planetary gear members being located in said annular space and being in contact with said toothed surfaces of said outer and inner gear members, and rotating in said annular space upon rotation of said outer and inner gear members. 2. The gear system of claim 1 wherein said outer gear member, said inner gear member and a predetermined number of said planetary flex-gear members comprise electrically conductive members. 3. The gear system of claim 2 wherein all of said planetary flex-gear members comprise electrically conductive members. 4. The gear system of claim 2 wherein said outer gear member comprises a ring gear including a pair of arcuate ring gear segments mutually separated by a pair of insulation members and said inner gear member comprises four gear segments mutually separated by four insulator members. 5. The gear system of claim 4 wherein said pair of ring gear segments of said outer gear member are of equal arc length. 6. The gear system of claim 4 wherein said four gear segments of said inner gear member are of equal size. 7. The gear system of claim 4 wherein said pair of ring gear segments of said outer gear member comprises semi-circular segments of equal size and wherein said four gear segments of said inner gear member comprises equal sized quadrant segments thereof. 8. A gear system for providing both mechanical and electrical transfer of energy, comprising: a first and a second planar set of rotary type gear members rotatable in unison about a common central axis and arranged in mutually parallel planes; electrical insulator means located in a plane intermediate said first and second sets of gear members and oriented transverse to said central axis, and wherein each of said first and second set of rotary type gear members respectively comprises, an outer gear member comprising a ring gear having an inner toothed surface of a predetermined first diameter; an inner gear member concentric and substantially coplanar with said outer gear member and having an outer toothed surface of a predetermined second diameter, said first diameter being greater than said second diameter whereby an annular gap is generated on each side of said insulator means between said toothed surfaces; and a plurality of planetary flex-gear members comprised of generally circular cylindrical bands of flexible material shaped to include a set of gear teeth located in said annular gap and being in contact with said toothed surfaces of said outer and inner gear members, said planetary flex-gear members rotating in said annular gap upon rotation of said outer and inner gear members. 9. The gear system of claim 8 wherein said outer gear member, said inner gear member and a predetermined number of said planetary flex-gear members comprise electrically conductive gear members. 10. The gear system of claim 8 wherein all of said planetary flex-gear members comprise electrically conductive gear members. 