A robotic placement device (FIG. 1) comprises a programmable end-effector (200) for picking and placing component parts. The programmable end-effector (200) comprises a cylinder (201) having a piston (202) including a first (203) and second (208) shafts coupled together. The first shaft (203) of the piston is larger than the second shaft (208). A controller (102) controls a pressure applied to the cylinder (201) and the piston (202) including the first (203) and second (208) shafts of the programmable end-effector (200) establishes a predetermined placement force at the programmable end-effector (200) while placing component parts. A control circuit 118 senses the pressure and in response thereto generates a signal. A processor 108 coupled to the controller (102) processes the signal and in response thereto varying the pressure for maintaining a substantially constant placement force at the programmable end-effector (200) while the programmable end-effector (200) moves vertically.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic placement device, comprising: a programmable end-effector for picking and placing component parts, the programmable end-effector comprising a cylinder having a piston including a first and second shafts coupled together, the first shaft being larger than the second shaft; a controlling means for controlling a pressure applied to the cylinder and the piston including the first and second shafts of said programmable end-effector establishes a predetermined placement force at the programmable end-effector while placing component parts; an air-bearing moveably coupled to the second shaft for providing substantially friction-free coupling therebetween as the piston moves vertically; means for sensing the pressure and in response thereto generating a signal; and a processing means, coupled to the controlling means, for processing the signal and in response thereto varying the pressure for maintaining a substantially constant placement force at the programmable end-effector while the programmable end-effector moves vertically. 2. The robotic placement device according to claim 1 wherein the programmable end-effector further comprising: an O-ring seal coupled to and dividing the cylinder into a first and second chambers wherein the first shaft is moveably coupled between the O-ring seal. 3. The robotic placement device according to claim 1 wherein said air-bearing further including an air pressure being applied to the air-bearing for evenly distributing a force on the perimeter of said second shaft for establishing the friction-free coupling therebetween. 4. The robotic placement device according to claim 1 further comprising: the piston having a tip for picking and placing component parts; a chamber for receiving air for establishing the pressure therein being applied to the first and second shafts of said piston wherein said piston being moveably coupled within said chamber; and wherein the processing means and the controlling means maintain the established pressure within the chamber while the piston moves vertically thereby providing the substantially constant placement force applied by the tip of the programmable end-effector to a circuit assembly. 5. The robotic placement device according to claim 1 the processing means further including means for varying the pressure applied to the programmable end-effector for providing a first force for picking up component parts and a second force for placing said component parts. 6. The robotic placement device according to claim 5 wherein the first force being substantially lesser than the second force. 7. In a robotic placement device, a method for controlling a placement force, comprising the steps of: (a) applying a pressure to a programmable end-effector of the robotic placement device for establishing a predetermined force at a tip of the programmable end-effector, the programmable end-effector having a piston including a first and second shafts coupled together wherein the first shaft being larger than the second shaft, said step (a) of applying pressure further includes the step of applying a pressure to an air bearing moveably coupled to the second shaft of the piston wherein the pressure being applied is evenly applied to a perimeter of the second shaft at the air-bearing for providing a substantially frictionless coupling therebetween; (b) sensing variations in the applied pressure; (c) controlling an input and an exhaust to the pressure in response to step (b) for compensating for any variations in the applied pressure thereby permitting the piston to move in a vertical direction while maintaining the predetermined force at the tip of the programmable end-effector as the piston moves vertically. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein the step of applying the pressure further including: (d) applying a first pressure to a first chamber of the programmable end-effector for moving the piston within the first chamber; (e) applying a second pressure to a second chamber enclosing a portion of the piston forming a coupling between the first shaft and the second shaft for moving the piston; and (f) said step of applying pressure to the air-bearing comprises applying a third pressure thereto. 9. The method according to claim 8 wherein the step of applying the first pressure includes the step of disabling the application of the first pressure when picking up the component part for exerting a second force lower than the predetermined force for picking up the component part. 10. A robotic placement device, comprising: a programmable end-effector for picking and placing component parts, the programmable end-effector including a cylinder having a piston, the piston including a first and second shafts coupled together, the first shaft being larger than the second shaft; an O-ring seal coupled to and dividing the cylinder into a first and second chambers wherein the first shaft is moveably coupled between the O-ring seal; a controlling means for controlling a pressure applied to the first chamber for establishing a predetermined placement force at the programmable end-effector while placing component parts; an air-bearing moveably coupled to the second shaft for providing substantially friction-free coupling therebetween as the piston moves vertically; means for sensing the pressure in the first chamber and in response thereto generating a signal; a processing means, coupled to the controlling means, for processing the signal and in response thereto varying the pressure in the first chamber for maintaining a substantially constant placement force being exerted by the programmable end-effector on a circuit assembly, said processing means controls the placement force when the programmable end-effector moves vertically while in contact with the circuit assembly. 