An articulated direct drive robotic manipulator providing rotation of first and second arms about first and second parallel axes including first and second motors for driving the rotation of the first and second arms. A pedestal is mounted on a base, the first motor is directly coupled to a rotatable column in the pedestal for providing a first robot arm with a first degree of freedom, a second motor is coupled to a rotatable column coaxial to the first column for providing the manipulator with a second degree of freedom by rotation of the second arm. The distal end of the second arm includes support for an end effector for movement about a third axis which is a vertical axis and a fourth axis which is a rotational axis and support for a quill. Also included is a modular device adapted to be coupled to the end of the quill which can move within horizontal planes passing through the third axis to provide a fifth degree of freedom.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An articulated direct drive robotic manipulator providing rotation about first and second parallel axes comprising first and second motors rotating about a common axis which is in common with the first axis of rotation of the manipulator, the first motor including a rotor directly coupled to a driver member rotating about said first axis of rotation, the manipulator including a first arm mounted to said driver member for movement in a plane perpendicular to the first axis about a joint centered at said first axis, the end of said first arm distal from the first axis including a joint rotatable about said second axis, said second motor including a rotor rotating about the first axis and coupled to said second axis joint to rotate said joint. 2. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 including a pedestal coaxial with the first axis, the base of shid pedestal including said first motor. 3. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 including a column directly driven by the rotor of said first motor to rotate said first arm of said manipulator about said first joint, said column comprising said driver member. 4. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 3 wherein said first arm is directly connected to the column driven by said first motor for rotation in a plane perpendicular to the first axis. 5. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 2 wherein said second motor is located at the base of said pedestal adjacent said first motor, the rotor of said second motor being directly coupled at the first joint between said pedestal and said first arm to means for translating motion of said second motor rotor to said second axis joint. 6. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 5 wherein said motion translating means comprise a pair of drums and a band movable with said drums, one of said drums being mounted coaxially with said first and second motors at said first axis and directly driven by said second motor, the other of said pair of drums being mounted coaxial with said second axis, said manipulator including an outer linking arm whose inner end is directly coupled to and driven by said second drum. 7. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 6 wherein said band comprises two sections, each section comprising more than one-half of a complete band loop, each section being fastened to the side of one of said drums. 8. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein each of said belt sections is of sufficient length to extend about one-half the circumference of each drum, the belt section ends being fastened to said corresponding positions on the sides of said drums. 9. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 6 wherein the distal end of said outer linking arm includes a movable quill mounted on a third joint providing movement of said quill along a vertical third axis, and a fourth joint providing rotational movement of said quill around said third axis. 10. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 9 wherein the distal end of the outer linking arm includes a housing mounting said quill, said housing including the stator of a third motor, the rotor being mounted coaxially with said third axis, and means coupling said rotor and said quill, rotation of said rotor causing vertical movement of said third joint and said quill along said vertical third axis. 11. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 10 wherein said coupling means comprise a plurality of tracks threaded on the outside of said quill, an internally threaded drive nut surrounding a portion of the quill and rotating with the rotor, and a plurality of balls captured between the nut and the quill for translating rotation of said nut into vertical movement of the quill. 12. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 11 wherein said drive nut includes external threads on the outside of said nut and inside of said housing, said balls traveling through said internal and external threads. 13. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 10 including drive means for causing said fourth joint to rotate about said third axis comprising a motor mounted near to the second axis of rotation, a pulley coupled to and surrounding said quill, and a belt coupling said motor and pulley. 14. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 10 including means coupled to the end of said quill to provide motion of the end of said manipulator through a horizontal plane passing through said third axis of rotation. 15. An articulated robot arm, said arm having a mechanical end effector at one extremity thereof for manipulating a workpiece, said robot arm comprising a base, a pedestal mounted on said base, a column extending through said pedestal for rotary movement about a first fixed axis to provide said robot arm with a first degree of freedom, a first motor directly coupled to said column in said pedestal for selectively rotating said column and said effector about said first vertical axis, a first linking arm mounted at its inner end to said column and directly driven by said column, a second linking arm pivotally coupled for rotation about a second vertical axis at its inner end to the outer end of said first linking arm and carrying said end effector at its outer end, to provide a second degree of freedom of motion thereto, a second motor mounted for rotation coaxially with said first motor, said first linking arm including means for directly coupling the output of said second motor to the outer end thereof for rotating the inner end of said second linking arm and said end effector about said second axis. 16. An articulated robot arm as claimed in claim 15 wherein the outer end of said second linking arm includes means for supporting said end effector for movement along and about a vertical third axis, said supporting means comprising a quill, a holder for said quill, means for moving said quill along and about the third axis parallel to said first and second axes, to provide third and fourth degrees of freedom to said end effector. 17. An articulated robot arm as claimed in claim 16 including a modular device adapted to be coupled to the end of said quill and comprising means for moving said end effector in horizontal planes perpendicular to said third vertical axis to provide a fifth degree of freedom to said end effector. 18. An articulated robot arm as claimed in claim 16 wherein said supporting means for said quill further comprise means coupled between said holder and said quill for rotating said quill about said third axis. 19. An articulated robot arm as claimed in claim 15 further comprising a second axis joint coupling said first linking arm to said second linking arm and coincident with said second axis, wherein said second motor is located at the base of said pedestal adjacent to said first motor, the rotor of said second motor being directly coupled at the first joint to means for translating motion of said second motor to said second axis joint. 20. An articulated robot arm as claimed in claim 19 wherein said motion translating means comprise a pair of drums and a band movable with said drums, one of said drums being mounted coaxially with said first and second motors at said first axis and directly driven by said second motor, the other of said pair of drums being mounted coaxial with said second axis, said manipulator including said second linking arm whose inner end is directly coupled to and driven by said second drum. 21. An articulated robot arm as claimed in claim 20 wherein said band comprises two sections, each section comprising more than one-half of a complete band loop, each section being fastened to the side of one of said drums. 22. An articulated robot arm as claimed in claim 21 wherein each of said belt sections is of sufficient length to extend about one-half of the circumference of each drum, the belt section ends being fastened to said corresponding positions on the sides of said drums. 23. An articulated robot arm as claimed in claim 16 wherein the distal end of the linking arm includes a holder mounting said quill, said holder including the stator of a third motor, the rotor being mounted coaxially with said third axis, and means coupling said rotor and said quill, rotation of said rotor causing vertical movement of said quill. 24. An articulated robot arm as claimed in claim 23 wherein said coupling means comprise a plurality of tracks threaded on the outside of said quill, an internally threaded drive nut surrounding a portion of the quill and rotating with the rotor, and a plurality of balls captured between the nut and the quill for translating rotation of said nut into vertical movement of the quill. 25. An articulated robot arm as claimed in claim 24 wherein said drive nut includes external threads on the outside of said nut and inside of said housing, said balls traveling through said internal and external threads. 26. An articulated robot arm as claimed in claim 23 including drive means for causing rotation about the third axis comprising a motor mounted near to the second axis of rotation, a pulley coupled to and surrounding said quill, and a belt coupling said motor and pulley. 27. An industrial robot having a plurality of controlled axes of movement, and comprising a support member, a first drive unit having a base component and a secondary component, said base component being rotatably mounted with respect to said secondary component to define a central axis, means fixedly mounting said secondary component of said first drive unit to said support member, output shaft means fixed to said base component and aligned coaxially with said central axis, and drive means for rotating said base component about said central axis, and a second drive unit having a tubular base component and a secondary component, said base component being rotatably mounted with respect to its secondary component for rotation about said central axis and being coaxially disposed about said output shaft means, means fixedly mounting said secondary component of said second drive unit to said support member, tubular output means fixed to said base component of said second drive unit and aligned coaxially about said output shaft means of said first drive unit, and drive means for rotating said base component of said second drive unit about said central axis. 28. The industrial robot as defined in claim 27 wherein said drive means of each of said first and second drive units comprises an electrical motor having a rotor disposed coaxially about the central axis and being fixed to said base component thereof, and a stator disposed coaxially about the central axis and being fixed to said secondary component thereof. 29. The industrial robot as defined as claim 27 wherein said robot further comprises an inner arm, means interconnecting said inner arm to said output means of said second drive unit, an outer arm, means pivotally connecting said outer arm to said inner arm for relative rotation about a second axis disposed parallel to and laterally spaced from said central axis, and torque transmission means operatively connecting said output shaft means of said first drive unit to said outer arm, whereby said inner arm may be pivoted about said central axis by said second drive unit, and said outer arm may be pivoted about said second axis by said first drive unit. 30. An articulated direct drive robotic manipulator providing rotation about first and second parallel axes, said robot comprising first and second motors rotating about a common axis which is in common with the first axis of rotation of the manipulator, said common axis being perpendicular to a first horizontal plane defined by a floor on which the robot stands, the manipulator including a first linking arm mounted for movement in a second horizontal plane perpendicular to the first axis about a joint centered at said first axis, said first motor including a rotor directly coupled to said first arm for controlling said movement in said first plane, the end of said first linkage arm distal from the first axis supporting a second linking arm and including a joint rotatable about said second axis, said second motor being coupled through motion translating means to said second axis joint to rotate said joint and said second arm, said motion translating means comprising a pair of drums and a band movable with said drums, one of said drums being mounted coaxially with said first and second motors at said first axis and directly driven by said second motor, the other of said pair of drums being mounted coaxial with said second axis, said second linking arm having an inner end directly coupled to and driven by said second drum for movement in a third horizontal plane parallel to said first horizontal plane. 31. A robotic manipulator as in claim 30 wherein said band comprises two sections, each section comprising more than one-half of a complete band loop, ends of each said section being fastened to separate ones of said pair of drums whereby tension can be maintained on each of said bands. 32. A robotic manipulator as in claim 31 wherein each of said belt sections is of sufficient length to extend between said pair of drums and about one-half the circumference of each said drum, the belt section ends being fastened to corresponding positions on the sides of said drums facing the same side of said robot arm whereby tension is maintained on said bands. 33. An articulated direct drive robotic manipulator providing rotation about first and second parallel axes, said robot comprising first and second motors rotating about a common axis which is in common with the first axis of rotation of the manipulator, said common axis being perpendicular to a first horizontal plane defined by a floor on which the robot stands, the manipulator including a first linking arm mounted for movement in a second horizontal plane perpendicular to the first axis about a joint centered at said first axis, said first motor including a rotor directly coupled to said first arm for controlling said movement in said first plane, the end of said first linking arm distal from the first axis supporting a second, outer linking arm and including a joint rotatable about said second axis, said second motor being coupled through said motion translating means to said second axis joint to rotate said joint and said second arm, an end of said second, outer linking arm distal from said joint between said first and second arm including a movable quill mounted on a second joint including means for providing movement of said quill along a vertical third axis perpendicular to said horizontal plane of movement of said first and second arms, and for providing rotational movement of said quill around a fourth axis, collinear to said third axis, said third and fourth axes being parallel to said first and second axes. 34. A robotic manipulator as in claim 33 wherein the distal end of said second linking arm includes means for providing movement at said second joint including a housing mounting said quill, said housing including the stator of a third motor, the rotor of said third motor being mounted coaxially with said third axis, and means coupling said rotor and said quill, rotation of said rotor causing vertical movement of said quill along said third axis. 35. A robotic manipulator as in claim 34 including drive means for causing said rotational movement about the third axis comprising a fourth motor mounted near the second axis of rotation, a pulley coupled to and surrounding said quill, and a belt coupling said motor and pulley, rotation of said motor causing rotation of said quill about said third axis. 36. A robotic manipulator as in claim 35 including means for coupling said pulley to said quill comprising a housing surrounding said quill, at least three vertical lines of balls captured between the outer surface of the quill and an inner surface of the housing, said lines of balls supporting said quill for vertical movement relative to the housing, at least one of said lines of balls being captured between a groove on the surface of the quill and the internal surface of the housing and coupling rotational movement about a third axis to said quill. 37. A robotic manipulator as in claim 33 including means coupled to an end effector at a working end of said quill comprising a modular fifth axis device driven by a power source inserted in the hollow barrel of said quill, said modular device being moveable in horizontal planes passing through said third and fourth axes to provide an added degree of freedom for operations of said robotic manipulator, said modular fifth axis device comprising an output yoke movable through said horizontal planes, and means for translating the output of the power source into movement of said yoke. 38. A robotic manipulator as in claim 33 wherein said quill is hollow, and including means for providing movement of an end effector on an end of said quill, in vertical planes incorporating said third axis comprising a modular device including a source of motor power inserted within said quill, means for coupling said modular device to an end effector on said quill and an output yoke of said modular device driven by said motor power source to work a workpiece. 39. A robotic manipulator as in claim 33 including means coupled to an end effector at a working end of said quill comprising a modular fifth axis device driven by a power source inserted in the hollow barrel of said quill, said modular device being moveable in vertical planes incorporating said third and fourth axes to provide an added degree of freedom for operations of said robotic manipulator, said modular fifth axis device comprising an output yoke moveable in said vertical planes, and means for translating the output of the power source into movement of said yoke. 40. A robotic manipulator as in claim 39 wherein said output translating means comprises a rack driven by said power source along said third axis of motion within said quill, and gear means coupled between said rack and said yoke to move said yoke through said vertical planes with vertical movement of said rack. 41. A robotic manipulator as in claim 40 wherein said power source comprises an electric motor coupled to said rack through a drive nut to move said rack along said third axis. 