A spherical motor (10) provides smooth isotropic motion. The spherical motor (10) has a spherical stator (12) surrounding a spherical rotor (18). A motor shaft (24) is mounted to the rotor (18), or alternatively, to the stator (12) for performing work in isotropic motion. A grid pattern is situated to move substantially concentrically with the rotor (18) and in conjunction with the motor shaft (24). A vision system (80) monitors the grid pattern (42) and determines in real time the position of the motor shaft (24). The vision system (80) has at least one image sensor (44) positioned on the stator (12) and a computer system (82) for processing data independent of a remote host computer (122). Further, a motor controller (191) using a motor control algorithm (200) may be interfaced with the vision system (80) to thereby derive a motor control system (190) for controlling the spherical motor (10) based upon the rotor orientation information retrieved by the vision system (80). Finally, a video controller (106) can be interfaced with the vision system (80) for converting digital image data in real time to analog image data conforming to the RS-170 television standard for viewing on a display device (116).
Claims Wherefore, the following is claimed; 1. An orientation sensing system for permitting non-contact three dimensional orientation measurement of a spherical body, comprising: a grid pattern of lines substantially concentric with said spherical body and movable therewith; an image sensor means for retrieving an image of said lines of said grid pattern; and processing means associated with said image sensor, said processing means for determining the three dimensional orientation of said spherical body in a three dimensional reference frame comprising said image sensor based upon said image of said lines. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said grid pattern comprises colored lines and said image sensor means is a color sensor. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said grid pattern comprises gray lines which vary in shade about said spherical body and said image sensor means is a sensor which detects shades of gray. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said grid pattern comprises lines of different widths. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second image sensor means spaced from said image sensor by ninety degrees about said spherical body, said second image sensor means for retrieving a second image of second lines of said grid pattern, and wherein said processing means determines said spherical body orientation based upon the combination of said image and said second image. 6. A method for permitting non-contact three dimensional orientation measurement of a spherical body, comprising the steps of: moving a grid pattern substantially concentrically with said spherical body; viewing said grid pattern at a sensor location; and determining a spherical body orientation in a three dimensional reference frame comprising said sensor location based upon said viewing of said grid pattern. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of sensing different color lines in said grid pattern. 8. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of sensing varying shades of gray in said grid pattern. 9. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of sensing different line widths in said grid pattern. 10. A system for contactless determination of a three dimensional location of a position on a spherical body, comprising: the spherical body; a grid pattern substantially concentric with said spherical body and movable therewith, said grid pattern having first lines converging toward a point and having second lines which are generally parallel and which are generally orthogonal to said first lines; an image sensing means for retrieving an image of two intersecting points established by a first line and two second lines; and processing means for determining the position of said point in three dimensional space based upon said image. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising: means for determining first and second displacements respectively between said image sensing means and first and second intersecting points where said first line intersects with said two second lines; means for determining a spin angle of said spherical body based upon a distinguishing feature of said first line and a third displacement between said image sensing means and said first line, said spin angle being the angular displacement of said spherical body about said point from a reference first line of said grid pattern; and means for determining said position of said point based upon said first and second displacements and said spin angle. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein said spherical body is a rotor and further comprising: a spherical stator surrounding said rotor and having a stator opening; a shaft protruding from said rotor through said stator opening and being disposed in line with said point so that said processing means thereby determines the position of said shaft. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein said spherical body is a stator having a stator opening and further comprising: a spherical rotor within said stator; and a shaft protruding from said rotor through said stator opening and being disposed in line with said point so that said processing means determines the position of said shaft. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein said distinguishing feature of said first line is the particular coloring of said first line. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein said distinguishing feature of said first line is the particular gray shade of said first line. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein said distinguishing feature of said first line is the particular width of said first line. 17. A system for contactless determination of a three dimensional location of a position on a spherical body, comprising: the spherical body having the position, said spherical body being fixed in a three dimensional movable coordinate frame; a grid pattern substantially concentric with said spherical body and movable therewith, said grid pattern being fixed in said movable coordinate frame; an image sensing means for retrieving an image of said grid pattern, said image sensing means being fixed in a three dimensional reference coordinate frame; and processing means associated with said image sensing means, said processing means for determining a two dimensional location of said position from said image, said processing means for determining an amount of angular rotation about said position from said image, said processing means for determining a relationship between said movable coordinate frame and said reference coordinate frame based upon said two dimensional location of said position and said amount of angular rotation about said position. 18. The system of claim 17, further comprising a means for determining a three dimensional location of said position in said reference coordinate frame based upon said relationship between said movable coordinate frame and said reference coordinate frame. 19. The system of claim 18, further comprising: first lines on said grid pattern converging toward said position; second lines which are generally parallel and which are substantially orthogonal to said first lines, each of said first lines being uniquely distinguishable; wherein said image comprises first and second intersecting points where said first line intersects with two second lines; means for determining first and second displacements respectively between said image sensing means and first and second intersecting points; means for determining said amount of angular rotation based upon a distinguishing feature of said first line and a third displacement between said image sensing means and said first line; and means for determining the location of said position based upon said first and second displacements and said amount of angular rotation. 20. The system of claim 18, wherein said spherical body is a rotor and further comprising: a spherical stator surrounding said rotor and having a stator opening; a shaft protruding from said rotor through said stator opening and being disposed in line with said point so that said processing means thereby determines a location of said shaft. 21. The system of claim 18, wherein said spherical body is a stator having a stator opening and further comprising: a spherical rotor within said stator; and a shaft protruding from said rotor through said stator opening and being disposed in line with said position so that said processing means determines a location of said shaft. 22. A method for contactless determination of a three dimensional location of a position on a spherical body, comprising the steps of: moving a grid pattern substantially concentrically with said spherical body, said grid pattern having first lines converging toward a point and having substantially parallel second lines which are substantially orthogonal to said first lines; retrieving an image of a first line and at least two second lines which intersect said first line; and determining the position of said point in three dimensional space based upon said image. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising the steps of: determining locations of intersecting points where said first line intersects with said two second lines; determining an angular displacement of said spherical body about said point from a reference first line of said grid pattern based upon a distinguishing feature of said first line; and determining said position of said point based upon said locations of said intersecting points and said angular displacement. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of: retrieving a second image of another first line and another set of second lines; and determining the position of said point based upon both said image and said second image. 25. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of determining the position of said point based upon images spaced angularly about said point by ninety degrees. 26. A method for contactless determination of a three dimensional location of a position on a spherical body, comprising the steps of: providing a grid pattern substantially concentric with the spherical body and movable therewith, said grid pattern and the spherical body being situated in a three dimensional movable coordinate frame; retrieving an image of said grid pattern, said image being fixed in a three dimensional reference coordinate frame; determining a two dimensional location of said position from said image; determining an amount of angular rotation about said position from said image; and determining a relationship between said movable coordinate frame and said reference coordinate frame based upon said two dimensional location of said position and said amount of angular rotation about said position. 