A data processing device comprising a storage circuit accessible by assertion of addresses, an arithmetic logic unit connected to the storage circuit operative to perform an arithmetic operation on data received by the arithmetic unit. Further included is an address register for storing an initial address word indicative of a storage circuit address. An instruction decode and control unit, connected to the storage circuit and having an instruction register operative to hold a program instruction is operative to decode the program instruction into control signals to control the operations of the data processing device and location codes to control data transfers according to predetermined sections of the program instruction wherein at least one of the sections includes a location section selecting the address register and a displacement section containing address data. Further included is an address generating unit connected to the storage circuit, the instruction register, and the address register responsive to the control signals from the instruction decode and control unit combining the initial address word from the address register and the address data from the displacement section to generate a storage circuit address. Other devices, systems and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data processing system comprising: a data processing device including: a memory having a plurality of addressable memory locations; an arithmetic logic unit, connected to said memory, operative to perform an arithmetic operation on operands applied to said arithmetic logic unit; a data register, connected to said arithmetic logic unit, operative to store a first operand for said arithmetic logic unit; an instruction decode and control unit, connected to said memory and said arithmetic logic unit, having an instruction register operative to hold a program instruction, said instruction decode and control unit operative to decode the program instruction into control signals to control the operations of the data processing device and to identify at least two operands for said arithmetic logic unit according to sections of the program instruction wherein the sections include a register section selecting said data register for said first operand and an immediate data section containing a second operand; a coprocessor, connected to said data processing device, operative to support operation of the data processing system; and a peripheral device, connected to said coprocessor, operative to provide communication between said data processing system and another data processing system. 2. The data processing system of claim 1 further comprising another data processing device connected to said first named data processing device, said coprocessor, and said peripheral device for processing data received from said connected devices and said coprocessor. 3. The data processing system of claim 1, wherein said data processing device includes a register file, and wherein said data register is included in said register file. 4. The data processing system of claim 3, wherein said arithmetic logic unit has an output connected to said register file for storing data from said arithmetic logic unit in said register file. 5. The data processing system of claim 4, wherein said register file has an input connected to said instruction decode and control unit to permit a said control signal from said instruction decode and control unit to select a location in said register file for storing said data from said arithmetic logic unit. 6. The data processing system of claim 1, wherein said arithmetic logic unit includes a multiplexer having a first input connected to said memory and a second input connected to said instruction decode and control unit. 7. The data processing system of claim 6, wherein said arithmetic logic unit includes a further multiplexer having a first input connected to said memory and a second input connected to said data register. 8. The data processing system of claim 1, wherein said arithmetic logic unit includes a multiplexer having a first input connected to said memory and a second input connected to said data register. 9. The data processing system of claim 1, including a communication port connected to said coprocessor for permitting information transfer to and from said data processing system, said peripheral device including a modem connected to said coprocessor via said communication port. 10. The data processing system of claim 9, including a further communication port connected to said coprocessor, and a further peripheral device, said further communication port connected between said further peripheral device and said coprocessor to permit information transfer between said coprocessor and said further peripheral device. 11. The data processing system of claim 10, wherein said further peripheral device includes a keyboard. 12. The data processing system of claim 10, wherein said further peripheral device includes a display assembly. 13. The data processing system of claim 10, wherein said further peripheral device includes mass data media. 14. The data processing system of claim 1, including a communication port connected to said coprocessor for permitting information transfer to and from said data processing system, and wherein said peripheral device is connected to said coprocessor via said communication port. 15. The data processing system of claim 14, including a further communication port connected to said coprocessor, and a further peripheral device, said further communication port connected between said further peripheral device and said coprocessor to permit information transfer between said coprocessor and said further peripheral device. 16. The data processing system of claim 14, wherein said peripheral device includes a keyboard. 17. The data processing system of claim 14, wherein said peripheral device includes a display assembly. 18. The data processing system of claim 14, wherein said peripheral device includes mass data media. 19. The data processing system of claim 14, wherein said coprocessor includes a first communication channel for transferring information from said communication port to said memory, and a second communication channel for transferring information from said memory to said communication port. 20. The data processing system of claim 19, wherein said peripheral device includes a keyboard. 21. The data processing system of claim 19, wherein said peripheral device includes a display assembly. 22. The data processing system of claim 19, wherein said peripheral device includes mass data media. 