Target based machine vision useful for alignment of sensors and other objects affixed to structures, robots and the like. While addressed particularly to alignment of machine vision systems relative to structures, the techniques disclosed are useful with a multitude of different sensors and objects.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for aligning a camera which views successive parts which are individually moving along a physical path through a field of view of the camera comprising the steps of: locating at least one target in a portion of the field of view of the camera in which each part will be viewed by the camera but in a position on a side of the physical path which is opposite to that of the camera so that the at least one target is obstructed by the moving part in the portion of the field of view; checking of the alignment of the camera with the at least one target when no parts are in the portion of the field of view of the camera; and correcting of the alignment of the camera before the parts move into the portion of the field of view of the camera. 2. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 1 wherein the camera is a matrix camera which views the part in an XY plane with the part moving in a Z direction through an XY field of view of the matrix camera; and wherein the checking step includes the checking of the XY alignment of the matrix camera and wherein the correcting step includes the correcting of the XY alignment of the matrix camera. 3. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 1 wherein the camera views only a selected portion of each part; and wherein the locating step includes the locating of the at least one target in a portion of the field of view of the camera in which the selected portion of the parts will be viewed by the camera. 4. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 3 wherein there are a plurality of cameras each of which view only a selected portion of each part; and wherein the locating step includes the locating of at least one respective target in a portion of the field of view of each camera, wherein the checking step includes the checking of the alignment of each of the plurality of cameras, and the correcting step includes the correcting of the alignment of each of the plurality of cameras. 5. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 1 wherein the camera is equipped with a means for adjusting the depth of field; and wherein the checking step includes the step of adjusting the depth of field of the camera so that the at least one target is more easily viewed. 6. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 1 and further including the step of periodically performing the checking and correcting steps after a plurality of the parts have been viewed. 7. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 1 wherein the camera is movable in six degrees of freedom; and wherein the locating step includes the locating of a plurality of targets in the portion of the field of view, wherein the checking of the alignment is made in six degrees of freedom, and wherein the correcting of the alignment is made in six degrees of freedom. 8. A method for aligning a matrix camera which views successive parts in an XY plane which parts are individually moving in a Z direction through an XY field of view of the matrix camera comprising the steps of: locating at least one target in a portion of the field of view of the matrix camera in which the parts will be viewed by the matrix camera but in a position which is clear of the physical path of the moving part even though the at least one target is obstructed by the moving part in the portion of the field of view; checking of the XY alignment of the matrix camera with the at least one target when no parts are in the portion of the field of view of the matrix camera; and correcting of the XY alignment of the matrix camera before the parts move into the portion of the field of view of the matrix camera. 9. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 8 wherein the camera views only a selected portion of each part; and wherein the locating step includes the locating of the at least one target in a portion of the field of view of the camera in which the selected portion of the parts will be viewed by the camera. 10. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 9 wherein there are a plurality of cameras each of which view only a selected portion of each part; and wherein the locating step includes the locating of at least one respective target in a portion of the field of view of each camera, wherein the checking step includes the checking of the alignment of each of the plurality of cameras, and the correcting step includes the correcting of the alignment of each of the plurality of cameras. 11. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 8 wherein the camera is equipped with a means for adjusting the depth of field; and wherein the checking step includes the step of adjusting the depth of field of the camera so that the at least one target is more easily viewed. 12. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 8 and further including the step of periodically performing the checking and correcting steps after a plurality of the parts have been viewed. 13. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 8 wherein the camera is movable in six degrees of freedom; and wherein the locating step includes the locating of a plurality of targets in the portion of the field of view, wherein the checking of the alignment is made in six degrees of freedom, and wherein the correcting of the alignment is made in six degrees of freedom. 14. A method for aligning a camera which views only a selected portion of successive parts moving individually through a field of view of the camera comprising the steps of: locating at least one target in a portion of the field of view of the camera in which a portion of a part will be viewed by the camera but in a position which is clear of the physical path of the moving part even though the at least one target is obstructed by the moving part in the portion of the field of view; checking of the alignment of the camera with the at least one target when no parts are in the portion of the field of view of the camera; and correcting of the alignment of the camera before the parts move into the portion of the field of view of the camera. 15. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 14 wherein there are a plurality of cameras each of which view only a selected portion of each part; and wherein the locating step includes the locating of at least one respective target in a portion of the field of view of each camera, wherein the checking step includes the checking of the alignment of each of the plurality of cameras, and the correcting step includes the correcting of the alignment of each of the plurality of cameras. 16. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 14 wherein the camera is equipped with a means for adjusting the depth of field; and wherein the checking step includes the step of adjusting the depth of field of the camera so that the at least one target is more easily viewed. 17. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 14 and further including the step of periodically performing the checking and correcting steps after a plurality of the parts have been viewed. 18. A method for aligning a camera as claimed in claim 14 wherein the camera is movable in six degrees of freedom; and wherein the locating step includes the locating of a plurality of targets in the portion of the field of view, wherein the checking of the alignment is made in six degrees of freedom, and wherein the correcting of the alignment is made in six degrees of freedom. 