A method and system is disclosed for estimating a speed of a robot tool center point at a specified time. The method includes the step of receiving an input signal representing the specified time for which the speed estimate is desired. The method also includes the step of processing individual motion segment data to create a blended Cartesian velocity vector. The individual motion segment data represents at least one robot motion segment. The method finally includes the step of transmitting an output signal based on a scalar magnitude of the blended Cartesian velocity vector. The output signal represents the speed of the robot Tool Center Point at the specified time.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a system including a robot controller and a robot tool center point speed estimator, a method for estimating a speed of a robot tool center point at a specified time, the method including the steps of: receiving at the robot tool center point speed estimator an input signal representing the specified time; processing at the robot tool center point speed estimator individual motion segment data representing at least one motion segment based on the specified time to compute a blended Cartesian velocity vector, the blended Cartesian velocity vector approximating actual robot tool center point Cartesian velocity at the specified time; transmitting from the robot tool center point speed estimator an output signal based on a magnitude of the blended Cartesian velocity vector, wherein the output signal represents the speed of the robot tool center point at the specified time; and calculating a control parameter based on the output signal, wherein the control parameter generally relates to rate control of a process located at the robot tool center point. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of processing includes the step of computing segment Cartesian velocity profile data associated with the specified time based on the individual motion segment data, the individual motion segment data including programmed velocity data and acceleration/deceleration region timing information. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of computing segment Cartesian velocity profile data includes the step of retrieving the individual motion segment data from a memory. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of processing further includes determining a command velocity associated with each motion segment. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the command velocity is a function of a programmed velocity. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of processing further includes calculating at least one scalar value corresponding to the specified time based on the segment Cartesian velocity profile data. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the at least one scalar value is computed as a percentage of the associated command velocity. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the step of processing further includes calculating at least one scaled-velocity vector based on the command velocity and the at least one scalar value. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the step of processing further includes summing the scaled velocity vectors to calculate a blended Cartesian velocity vector. 10. The method of claim 9 further including the step of calculating a control parameter based on the output signal, wherein the control parameter generally relates to rate control of a process located at the robot tool center point. 11. A system for estimating a speed of a robot tool center point at a specified time, the system including: means for receiving at a robot tool center point speed estimator an input signal representing the specified time; means for processing at the robot tool center point speed estimator individual motion segment data representing at least one motion segment based on the specified time to compute a blended Cartesian velocity vector; means for transmitting from the robot tool center point speed estimator an output signal based on a scala magnitude of the blended Cartesian velocity vector, wherein the output signal represents the speed of the robot tool center point at the specified time; and calculating a control parameter based on the output signal, wherein the control parameter generally relates to rate control of a process located at the robot tool center point. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the means for processing includes means for computing segment Cartesian velocity profile data associated with the specified time based on the individual motion segment data, the individual motion segment data including programmed velocity data and acceleration/deceleration region timing information. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein the means for computing segment Cartesian velocity profile data includes means for retrieving the individual motion segment data from a memory. 14. The system of claim 12 wherein the means for processing further includes means for determining a command velocity associated with each motion segment. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein the command velocity is a function of a programmed velocity. 16. The system of claim 14 wherein the means for processing further includes means for calculating at least one scalar value corresponding to the specified time based on the segment Cartesian velocity profile data. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the at least one scalar value is computed as a percentage of the associated command velocity. 18. The system of claim 16 wherein the means for processing further includes means for calculating at least one scaled velocity vector based on the command velocity and the at least one scalar value. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein the means for processing further includes means for summing the scaled velocity vectors to calculate a blended Cartesian velocity vector. 20. The system of claim 19 further including means for calculating a control parameter based on the output signal, wherein the control parameter generally relates to rate control of a process located at the robot tool center point. 