A fluid cutting system of improved configuration provides a high-velocity fluid that is rotated about a first axis (preferably a horizontal axis) on a moving trolley. The trolley is rotationally supported about a second axis (preferably vertical). The trolley travels upon a pair of arc-shaped tracks and is driven by a motor drive. The trolley has a pair of arc-shaped tracks that support the fluid jet nozzle. The fluid nozzle is thus rotatable about two axes, thereby emitting a high-pressure stream of fluid for adjustable cutting. A workpiece positioning frame has a fish section holder that can be elevated or moved laterally with respect to the cutting system.
Claims What is claimed as invention is: 1. A fish cutting apparatus for processing multiple transversely cut fish section workpieces, each having generally flat opposing surfaces connected with a peripheral curved surface comprising: a) a fluid jet frame with a fluid jetting knife movably supported with respect to the frame, and the knife having a nozzle that can emit a high velocity jet of fluid for cutting the fish section workpieces to be processed, the nozzle having a fluid discharge orifice; b) means for simultaneously rotating the fluid jetting nozzle about a pair of selected pivots that rotate the knife about a pair of intersecting axes; c) a workpiece support frame spaced from the fluid jet frame so that the fluid jet knife is positioned to cut a workpiece supported upon the workpiece frame; and d) means for translating a single one of the workpieces in two different directions with respect to the fluid jet frame and during simultaneous jetting of the workpiece by the jet of fluid, so that the workpiece is cut by a coordinated effort of the simultaneous pivotal movement of the knife and translating movement of the workpiece. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fluid jet support frame includes a fixed portion and a moving sub-frame portion. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the support frame includes a fixed portion and a moving sub-frame portion that can be rotated with respect to the fixed portion. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the support frame includes a first fixed portion having multiple arcuate tracks, and a second portion that is movable upon the arcuate tracks. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising holder means for supporting the workpiece during cutting and which engages the workpiece at a position in between the flat opposing surfaces. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the knife can be rotated about a generally vertical axis, and about a generally horizontal axis. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the knife can be rotated simultaneously about generally horizontal and generally vertical axes. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for simultaneously moving a workpiece into multiple elevational and multiple laterally spaced apart positions with respect to the knife. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the workpiece can be moved laterally and elevationally with respect to the fluid jet frame. 10. A fish cutting apparatus for processing transversely cut fish sections having generally flat opposing surfaces connected with a peripheral curved surface comprising: a) a support frame; b) a fluid jetting knife, movable supported about multiple intersecting axes upon the support frame, and having a nozzle with a discharge orifice that can emit a high pressure stream of fluid for cutting the fish sections to be processed; c) a workpiece support having a holder for carrying a fish section to be processed; d) translating means for raising and lowering the elevational position of the workpiece relative to the support frame and independently of simultaneous movement of the knife; and e) means for changing the lateral position of the workpiece relative to the support frame and independently of simultaneous movement of the knife, so that the workpiece is cut by a coordinated effort of the simultaneous pivotal movement of the knife and translating movement of the workpiece. 11. A fish cutting apparatus for processing transversely cut fish sections having generally flat opposing surfaces connected with a peripheral curved surface comprising: a) a support frame; b) a fluid jetting carriage, movably supported with respect to the support frame and having a fluid jet knife with a nozzle that can emit a high pressure stream of fluid for cutting the fish sections to be processed; c) first curved track means on the carriage for pivotally supporting the fluid jet knife for movement about a generally horizontal axis; and d) second curved track means for pivotally supporting the carriage for movement about a generally vertical axis; e) a workpiece support that is capable of moving the fish section in at least two directions during cutting, the workpiece being simultaneously movable relative to the first and second track means during pivotal movement of the knife, so that the workpiece is cut by a coordinated effort of the simultaneous pivotal movement of the knife and translating movement of the workpiece. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the first curved track means comprises a pair of curved tracks positioned at laterally spaced positions on the carriage. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the second curved track comprises upper and lower vertically spaced curved tracks. 14. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising first motor drive means for moving the fluid jet knife upon the first track means. 15. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the first and second curved track means includes at least two pairs of curved track portions that are orthogonally positioned with respect to one another. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein one pair of curved track portions is generally horizontally positioned and the other pair of curved track portions is generally vertically positioned. 17. A cutting apparatus for processing transversely cut food section workpieces, each having generally flat opposing surfaces an connected with a peripheral curved surface comprising: a) a support frame; b) a fluid jetting knife, movably supported with respect to the frame and having a nozzle that can emit a high pressure stream fluid for cutting the food sections to be processed; c) track means on the frame for supporting the knife during movement; d) workpiece translating means for simultaneously moving the food section workpiece relative to the support frame into at least two different directions including spaced elevational and spaced lateral positions during cutting wherein the fluid jetting knife and workpiece translating means simultaneously move; and e) means for pivoting the knife about at least two intersecting axes, and independently of movement of the food section workpiece, so that the workpiece is cut by a coordinated effort of the simultaneous pivotal movement of the knife and translating movement of the workpiece. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the track means includes at least two curved track portions that are generally orthogonally positioned with respect to one another. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein at least one curved track portion is generally horizontal and at least another curved track portion is generally vertical. 20. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the track means is positioned on the frame above and below, and on the sides of the knife. 21. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the track means includes in part, upper and lower, generally horizontally positioned curved tracks. 22. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising motor drive means for moving the knife upon the curved track means. 23. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the support frame has a moving sub-frame portion that contains the fluid jetting knife. 