A susceptor carrying semiconductor wafers for processing is suspended from a compliant attachment at its upper end and is lowered into a reaction chamber for processing. At the completion of processing, the susceptor is withdrawn vertically to permit a robot to unload the processed wafers and load unprocessed wafers. In order to fix the position of the susceptor during the loading operations, a support carriage is moved into position to engage the lower end of the susceptor. Noxious and corrosive chloride vapors are simultaneously withdrawn from the reaction chamber by a vacuum line attached to the support carriage.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for processing a substrate in a reaction chamber of the type having a closable opening in a wall thereof, comprising: a. compliantly supporting a vertically oriented susceptor from the top end thereof; b. stabilizing said susceptor from the bottom end thereof during loading and unloading of said substrates using stabilizing means comprising frictional contact pads engaging the bottom of said susceptor so that there is no lateral movement between the contact pads and the bottom of said susceptor that can generate particles, said contact pads mounted on a hollow moveable platform member; c. removing said contact pads from engagement with said susceptor after loading is completed; d. inserting said susceptor and substrates into said reaction chamber through said closable opening for processing therewithin; e. withdrawing said substrates and susceptor from said reaction chamber at the completion of said processing step; and f. exhausting said chamber through said hollow platform member while said chamber is open by means of a vacuum evacuation system connected to said hollow platform member which overlies said closable opening when it is open for exhausting noxious process by-product vapors from said chamber. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said susceptor has more than one face for supporting said substrates, comprising disengaging the contact pads from the susceptor and rotating the susceptor to present a different face and reengaging the pads with the susceptor for loading and unloading of substrates. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein said substrates are semiconductor wafers. 