A surgical system comprises an endoscopic instrument, a camera on the endoscopic instrument for obtaining video images of internal body tissues inside a patient's body via the endoscopic instrument, and a transmitter operatively connected to the camera for transmitting, over a telecommunications link to a remote location beyond a range of direct visual contact with the patient's body, a video signal encoding the video image. A receiver is provided for receiving actuator control signals from the remote location via the telecommunications link. The receiver feeds the signals to a robot actuator mechanism for controlling that mechanism to operate a surgical instrument insertable into the patient's body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical method, comprising the steps of: providing an endoscopic instrument assembly with a flexible insertion member, said endoscopic instrument assembly having a plurality of biopsy channels extending parallel to said insertion member; also providing a plurality of flexible endoscopic tools having distal end portions; inserting said insertion member into a patient's body; obtaining a video image of internal body tissues inside said patient's body via said endoscopic instrument assembly; transmitting, over an electromagnetic signaling link, a video signal encoding said video image to a remote location beyond a range of direct manual contact with said patient's body and said endoscopic instrument; receiving actuator control signals from said remote location via said electromagnetic signaling link; automatically inserting distal end portions of said tools into the patient's body via respective ones of said biopsy channels in response to the received actuator control signals; and automatically operating said tools in response to the received actuator control signals to effect a surgical operation on said internal body tissues. 2. The method defined in claim 1 wherein said endoscopic instrument assembly includes a pair of image transmission guides, said video signal including stereoscopic information from said image transmission guides, further comprising the step of providing stereoscopic visual information to a surgeon at said remote location. 3. The method defined in claim 2 wherein said step of providing stereoscopic visual information to a surgeon at said remote location includes the step of generating a single video image having staggered image components of different colors, filters over different eyes of a viewer serving to select between said staggered image components. 4. The method defined in claim 2 wherein said step of providing stereoscopic visual information to a surgeon at said remote location includes the steps of: providing two video monitors attached to one another for mounting to a person's head; and generating on said monitors two video images having staggered image components. 5. The method defined in claim 1 wherein said endoscopic instrument assembly includes a pair of image transmission guides, further comprising the step of transmitting images of two different views of said internal tissues along said image transmission guides, said video signal including stereoscopic information from said image transmission guides, further comprising the step of providing stereoscopic visual information to a surgeon at said remote location. 6. The method defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of automatically bending said distal end portions of said tools said tools in response to the received actuator control signals. 7. A surgical system comprising: an endoscopic instrument; camera means attached to said endoscopic instrument for obtaining video images of internal body tissues inside a patient's body via said endoscopic instrument; transmission means operatively connected to said camera means for transmitting, over an electromagnetic signaling link to a remote location beyond a range of direct manual contact with said patient's body and said endoscopic instrument, a video signal encoding said video image; receiver means for receiving actuator control signals from said remote location via said electromagnetic signaling link; a surgical instrument insertable into the patient's body and movable relative to the patient's body and said endoscopic instrument, said surgical instrument having a replaceable operative tip; robot actuator means operatively connected to said surgical instrument and said receiver means for actuating said surgical instrument in response to the actuator control signals received by said receiver means from said remote location; and robot selector means operatively connected to said surgical instrument and said receiver means for removing said operative tip and replacing said operative tip with a different operating tip in response to the actuator control signals received by said receiver means from said remote location. 8. The system recited in claim 7, further comprising means for automatically operating said endoscopic instrument in response to additional signals received by said receiver means from said remote location via said telecommunications link. 9. The system recited in claim 8 wherein said means for automatically operating said endoscopic instrument includes means for automatically operating said endoscopic instrument to vary said video image. 10. The system recited in claim 9 wherein said means for automatically operating said endoscopic instrument includes means for mechanically moving said endoscopic instrument with respect to the patient's body, thereby varying said video image. 11. The system defined in claim 7 wherein said robot actuator means is separate from said robot selector means. 12. The system defined in claim 7, further comprising additional camera means disposed permanently outside the patient and operatively connected to said transmission means for transmitting to said remote location a video image of a tool array disposed proximately to the patient. 13. The system defined in claim 7 wherein said camera means includes means for obtaining stereoscopic images of said internal body tissues. 14. The system defined in claim 7 wherein said robot actuator means includes means for operating said operative tip in response to the actuator control signals received by said receiver means from said remote location, said robot actuator means further including means for shifting said surgical instrument relative to the patient's body and said endoscopic instrument in response to the actuator control signals received by said receiver means from said remote location. 15. A surgical system comprising: an endoscopic instrument; camera means connected to said endoscopic instrument for obtaining stereoscopic video images of internal body tissues inside a patient's body via said endoscopic instrument; transmission means operatively connected to said camera means for transmitting, over an electromagnetic signaling link to a remote location beyond a range of direct manual contact with said patient's body and said endoscopic instrument, a video signal encoding said video images; receiver means for receiving actuator control signals from said remote location via said electromagnetic signaling link; a surgical instrument insertable into the patient's body and movable relative to the patient's body and said endoscopic instrument; and robot actuator means operatively connected to said surgical instrument and said receiver means for actuating said surgical instrument in response to the actuator control signals received by said receiver means from said remote location. 16. The system defined in claim 15 wherein said camera means includes: a first video camera and a second video camera; first optical means including a first optical input for receiving light reflected from said internal body tissues of the patient during a surgical procedure, said first optical means being operatively connected to said first camera for focusing a first image of said internal body tissues on photoreceptive componentry of said first camera; second optical means including a second optical input for receiving light reflected from said internal body tissues during said surgical procedure, said second optical means being operatively connected to said second camera for focusing a second image of said internal body tissues on photoreceptive componentry of said second camera; and spacer means operatively connected to said first and said second optical means for maintaining said first input and said second input spaced from one another inside the patient during said surgical procedure. 17. The system defined in claim 16, further comprising an elongate rigid member provided at a distal end with a pair of prongs, said spacer means including said prongs, said first optical input and said second optical input being disposed at distal ends of respective ones of said prongs, also comprising means operatively connected to said prongs for shifting said prongs away from one another upon an insertion of said elongate rigid member through a laparoscopic trocar sleeve traversing a skin surface of a patient. 18. The system defined in claim 16 wherein said spacer means includes a laparoscopic trocar sleeve having two instrument insertion channels oriented at an acute angle relative to one another, further comprising two elongate rods, said first optical input and said second optical input being disposed at distal ends of respective ones of said rods, said rods being inserted through respective ones of said instrument insertion channels. 19. The system defined in claim 16, further comprising a first elongate rigid member, said spacer means including a second elongate rigid member pivotably connected to a distal end of said first elongate rigid member, said first optical input and said second optical input being disposed at opposite ends of said second elongate member, also comprising means operatively connected to said second elongate rigid member for pivoting said second elongate rigid member relative to said first elongate rigid member, whereby said second elongate rigid member can be pivoted from an insertion configuration parallel to said first elongate rigid member to a use configuration at a predetermined angle with respect to said first elongate rigid member. 20. The system defined in claim 16 wherein said spacer means includes means for adjusting a spacing between said first and said second optical means. 