The present invention relates to a method and assembly suited to determining the size and position of a head relative to a clamp when using an industrial multi-axis robot. The invention is based on moving the clamp by means of the robot advantageously past three sensor elements and providing the clamp with a target element suitable for aiding in the position detection of the reference point of the clamp at the instant the clamp moves past a first sensor element. The size and position of the head are determined on the basis of geometrical lines computed from the head edge intercept signals obtained by means of the sensor elements. The lengths of the geometrical lines are determined from the speed of the clamp and the time intervals of intersect instants counted by a control system counter card connected to said sensor elements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the size and position of a roll end head comprising: gripping at least one head with a clamp having a predetermined reference point defined thereon and including a section which extends beyond an edge of the head, said clamp section defining a second point at a known distance relative to said predetermined reference point; moving said clamp past a plurality of sensors at a constant velocity; detecting from a first sensor an output signal change indicative of a measurement starting point for each sensor when said second point crosses said first sensor; detecting from each respective sensor an output signal indicative of a corresponding first intersect point when said head first crosses each sensor; measuring time elapsed between respective start and intersect points for each sensor; and computing the position and size of the head from the measurement start point of each sensor, the intersect points, and the known mutual distance between said second point defining the measurement start point and the predetermined reference point. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said moving step comprises moving the head past three sensors. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, further including a step of detecting a second output signal change from each respective sensor indicative of a corresponding second intersect point when said head passed each sensor, wherein the size and position of the head are determined from detected start points, first intersect points measured from a leading edge of the head, and second intersect points measured from a trailing edge of the head. 4. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first intersect points correspond to a leading edge of the head, the size and position of the head being determined from the start point of each sensor and said first intersect points. 5. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first intersect points correspond to a trailing edge of the head, the size and position of the head being determined from the start point of each sensor and said first intersect points. 6. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising selecting for each head diameter an ideal position on the clamp, determining the actual position of a head thereon relative to an ideal position corresponding thereto, and compensating for the difference therebetween when placing the head on a roll being wrapped. 7. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein first and second heads are moved concurrently by said clamp between facing pairs of sensors and wherein the position and size of both heads are determined during the computing step. 8. An apparatus for determining the size and position of a roll end head, comprising: a clamp, having a predetermined reference point defined thereon, for gripping and conveying said end head at a constant velocity, said clamp including a section which extends beyond an edge of a head to be conveyed and which defines a second point at a known distance relative to said predetermined reference point; a plurality of sensors respectively arranged to sense an edge of the head as said head is conveyed by said clamp relative thereto, said section being transferrable past a first of said sensors and said first sensor being adapted to provide an output signal change indicative of a measurement start point when said second point is aligned therewith; and means responsive to said output signal change and coupled to said sensors for computing a position of said edge relative to said second point. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein said plurality of sensors includes three sensors. 10. An apparatus according to claim 9, further including a reflector dimensioned arranged and arranged to reflect beams of said second and third sensors, said clamp being movable between said reflector and said sensors. 11. An apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein said clamp has first and second gripping surfaces for gripping corresponding first and second heads concurrently and wherein said plurality of sensor elements are arranged in inwardly facing groups to permit said clamp to be advanced therebetween. 12. An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said sensors are photocells. 13. An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said clamp is movable in a first linear direction and wherein said clamp section is a reflector aligned in a direction parallel to said first linear direction, said second point being located at a distal end of said reflector and said output signal being initiated when a light beam is reflected at said second point. 