A vacuum line connected to a robotic device is run into a reactor vessel. The robotic device has a rotating body, a cleaning arm, and stabilizing arms to stabilize the robotic device within the reactor vessel. The robotic device may be controlled/monitored from a remote control station in communication with the robotic device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for cleaning catalyst selected or use in a group of confined spaces, consisting of inert spaces or other hazardous environment spaces, comprising: a reactor vessel; a robotic device having a cleaning arm connected to said robotic device; wherein said robotic device has a main body, a means for stabilizing said robotic device connected to the main body, a turret connected to the main body, and wherein said cleaning arm is connected to said turret; wherein said cleaning arm includes an articulatable frame assembly and a suction line mounted to said articulatable frame assembly wherein sad robotic device is within the reactor vessel; a vacuum line connected through the reactor vessel and through said robotic device to said cleaning arm; and the reactor vessel being free from having a human operator within the reactor vessel. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, further including a fitting connected to said suction line; and a nozzle connected through the fitting. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a clamping mechanism connecting said suction line to said turret; a first knuckle activated by a first ram and a linkage connected in said articulatable frame assembly; and a second knuckle activated by a second ram and a second linkage connected in said articulatable frame assembly. 4. An apparatus for cleaning catalyst selected for use in a group of confined spaces, consisting of inert spaces or other hazardous environment spaces, comprising: a reactor vessel; a robotic device having a cleaning arm connected to said robotic device; wherein said robotic device has a main body, a means for stabilizing said robotic device connected to the main body, a turret connected to the main body, and wherein said cleaning arm is connected to said turret; wherein said robotic device is within the reactor vessel; a vacuum line connected through the reactor vessel and through said robotic device to said cleaning arm; wherein said cleaning arm includes an articulatable frame assembly and a suction line mounted to said articulatable frame assembly; the reactor vessel being free from having a human operator within the reactor vessel; a clamping mechanism connecting said suction line to said turret; a first knuckle activated by a first ram and a linkage connected in said articulatable frame assembly; and a second knuckle activated by a second ram and a second linkage connected in said articulatable frame assembly. 