An impedance shaping element (or more simply, an impedance shaper) physically alters or shapes the mechanical impedance of a drive system as it appears from an interface and facilitates use of feedback control to improve performance by altering or shaping a dynamic coupling between an interface and a control system. For example, the impedance shaper can be used to adjust a coupling value from a first value to a second different value. In one embodiment, an impedance shaper controls the compliance, damping and inertia characteristics of fluid within a fluid path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An impedance shaping element for use in a transmission system, the impedance shaping element comprising: a housing having first and second ports and a cavity region for accepting a fluid; and at least one adjustable compliance and damping element disposed in the housing. 2. The impedance shaping element of claim 1 wherein the housing holds a first fluid in a first portion of the cavity region and the impedance shaping element further comprises a compartment within the cavity region, the compartment adapted for holding a second fluid having one or more fluid characteristics which are different than the fluid characteristics of the first fluid. 3. The impedance shaping element of claim 1 wherein the cavity region is provided having plurality of compartments therein, each of the plurality of compartments adapted to hold a fluid therein. 4. The impedance shaping element of claim 3 wherein each of the plurality of compartments have fluids therein with at least two of the fluids having one or more different fluid characteristics. 5. The impedance shaping element of claim 1 wherein the damping element corresponds to a baffle. 6. The impedance shaping element of claim 1 wherein the housing is provided having a series of openings therein and the impedance shaping element further comprises a membrane which defines a second cavity region in the housing. 7. The impedance shaping element claim 6 wherein the damping element comprises a one or more blocks which define the plurality of openings in the housing. 8. The impedance shaping element of claim 6 wherein at least one of a gas or liquid fluid is disposed in the second cavity region. 9. The impedance shaping element of claim 1 wherein the housing is provided having one or more apertures provided therein and a membrane is disposed about the apertures to define a region into which fluid from the fluid path can move. 10. The impedance shaping element of claim 1 wherein said housing has coupled thereto at least one of: a bladder; a volume of pressurized gas; an open volume of liquid exposed to gravity; a bellows; or a mechanical spring. 11. An impedance shaper for use in a transmission system, the impedance shaper comprising: a housing having first and second ports and a cavity region for accepting a fluid; and a damping element disposed in the housing, said damping element having one or more variable inertia and/or damping passages, each of the one or more variable inertia and/or damping passages having a first end coupled to the fluid path. 12. The impedance shaper of claim 11 further comprising a tank and at least one of the one or more variable inertia and damping passages having a second end coupled to the tank. 13. The impedance shaper of claim 12 wherein at least one of the one or more variable inertia and damping passages are provided having one or more valves provided therein. 14. The impedance shaper of claim 12 wherein the tank is provided having a membrane disposed thereon. 15. The impedance shaper of claim 12 wherein at least one of the one or more variable inertia and damping passages is provided having at least one orifice adapted to provide an adjustable size opening within the passage. 16. An impedance shaper comprising: a fluid path having a first port and a second port and having a plurality of openings provided therein; a plurality of paths, each of the paths having a first end coupled to one of the plurality of openings in the fluid path and a second end; an adjustable stiffness shaper adapted to accept the second ends of the plurality of paths; and a membrane disposed in a portion of the stiffness shaper. 17. The impedance shaper of claim 16 further comprising a gas and pressure volume adjustment system coupled to said stiffness shaper. 18. The impedance shaper of claim 16 further comprising a first fluid disposed in the stiffness shaper on a first side of the membrane and a second fluid disposed in the stiffness shaper on a second side of the membrane. 19. An impedance shaper comprising: a fluid path having a first port and a second port and having a plurality of openings provided therein; a plurality of paths, each of the paths having a first end coupled to one of the plurality of openings in the fluid path and a second end; a stiffness shaper adapted to accept the second ends of the plurality of paths; a membrane disposed in a portion of the stiffness shaper; a first fluid disposed in the stiffness shaper on a first side of the membrane and a second fluid disposed in the stiffness shaper on a second side of the membrane wherein the fluid on the first side of the membrane is part of a captured system and the fluid on the second side of the membrane is a separate fluid which is adjustable. 20. An impedance shaper comprising: a fluid path having a first port and a second port and having a plurality of openings provided therein; a plurality of paths, each of the paths having a first end coupled to one of the plurality of openings in the fluid path and a second end; a stiffness shaper adapted to accept the second ends of the plurality of paths; a membrane disposed in a portion of the stiffness shaper; a first fluid disposed in the stiffness shaper on a first side of the membrane and a second fluid disposed in the stiffness shaper on a second side of the membrane; and a gas and pressure volume adjustment system coupled to said stiffness shaper, said gas and pressure volume adjustment system adapted to add or subtract fluid to/from the stiffness shaper. 21. The impedance shaper of claim 20 wherein said gas and pressure volume adjustment system is adapted to add or subtract fluid from the stiffness shaper in the region above the membrane. 