An apparatus and method for the remote analysis and identification of unknown compounds. A robotic arm positions a sensor on a surface. The sensor unit has a monitoring mechanism to monitor separation between the sensor unit and the surface when placed in contact with the surface to maintain the separation substantially constant. An illumination source illuminates the region of interest to produce scattered photons from an unknown compound. The scattered photons are collected by an optical system and delivered to a spectroscopic detector for analysis and identification. An algorithm is applied to the data generated by the spectroscopic detector to identify the unknown compound.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a vertically-movable robotic arm; and a vertically-movable sensor unit operatively coupled to said robotic arm and having a monitoring mechanism configured to physically contact a surface in a region of interest, wherein said monitoring mechanism includes: at least one rod configured to be placed in physical contact with said surface through vertical motion of said sensor unit, a force sensor coupled to said at least one rod to generate an output signal based on contact force between said at least one rod and said surface, and a feedback mechanism coupled to said force sensor to receive said output signal and to maintain said output signal substantially constant by adjusting vertical separation between said sensor unit and said surface in the region of interest, thereby maintaining said separation substantially constant so as to compensate for vertical movement of said robotic arm during an analysis of said region of interest. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a fine positioning device positioned between the sensor unit and the robotic arm for incrementally moving the sensor unit relative to said surface in said region of interest. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said fine positioning device has a tolerance of 40 micrometers from the sensor unit located above the surface. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one of the following imaging devices to obtain images of said region of interest: a visible light video capture device; a fluorescence imaging device; an NIR (Near Infrared) imaging device; an MIR (Mid Infrared) imaging device; a UV (Ultraviolet) imaging device; a hyperspectral imaging device; and a tera Hertz (THz) imaging device. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a LIBS (Laser Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy) device to target said region of interest for an unknown sample. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a laser light source configured to illuminate the surface having an unknown sample, to thereby produce scattered photons from different locations on or within the unknown sample. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising: a fiber array spectral translator device coupled to said sensor unit, said device includes a two-dimensional array of optical fibers drawn into a one-dimensional fiber stack so as to effectively convert a two-dimensional field of view into a curvilinear field of view; wherein said sensor unit includes: a first optical system coupled to said laser light source to direct light to the unknown sample; a second optical system that collects said scattered photons, and directs the collected scattered photons to said fiber array spectral translator device; wherein said fiber array spectral translator device outputs said collected scattered photons received from said second optical system; and a light shield that reduces ambient light collected by the second optical system. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising a spectroscopic detector that identifies the unknown sample within the region of interest. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said spectroscopic detector comprises: a spectrograph coupled to said one-dimensional fiber stack of said fiber array spectral translator device, wherein an entrance slit of the spectrograph is coupled to said one dimensional fiber stack to disperse said scattered photons output by the fiber array spectral translator device to generate a plurality of spatially resolved Raman spectra; and a two dimensional array of detection elements, coupled to said spectrograph, that detects the plurality of spatially resolved Raman spectra generated by said spectrograph. 10. A method comprising: placing a vertically-movable sensor unit adjacent to a surface in a region of interest using a vertically-movable robotic arm; placing at least one rod in physical contact with said surface through vertical motion of said sensor unit; detecting contact force between said at least one rod and said surface using a force sensor coupled to said at least one rod so as to generate an output signal; receiving said output signal using a feedback mechanism coupled to said force sensor; and maintaining said output signal substantially constant by adjusting vertical separation between said sensor unit and said surface in the region of interest using said feedback mechanism, thereby maintaining said separation substantially constant so as to compensate for vertical movement of said robotic arm during an analysis of said region of interest. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: positioning the sensor unit, using a fine positioning device, said fine positioning device having a tolerance of 40 micrometers from the sensor unit located above the surface. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: obtaining images of the region of interest, using an imaging device. 13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: illuminating the region of interest having an unknown sample using a laser light source, to thereby produce scattered photons from different locations on or within the unknown sample. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: collecting, via an optical system, scattered photons produced by the unknown sample; outputting said collected photons using a fiber array spectral translator device, wherein said device comprises a two-dimensional array of optical fibers drawn into a one-dimensional fiber stack so as to effectively convert a two-dimensional field of view into a curvilinear field of view; analyzing the scattered photons, produced by the unknown sample, using Raman spectroscopy to produce a plurality of spatially resolved Raman spectra; and applying an algorithm to the plurality of spatially resolved Raman spectra to thereby identify the unknown sample in the region of interest. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: reducing ambient light collected by said optical system using a light shield. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein said imaging device is at least one of the following: a visible light video capture device; a fluorescence imaging device; an NIR (Near Infrared) imaging device; an MIR (Mid Infrared) imaging device; a UV (Ultraviolet) imaging device; a hyperspectral imaging device; and a tera Hertz (THz) imaging device. 