The present invention relates to hard coating of ferrous metal substrates using a laser beam with diamond particles in a metal matrix produced from precursor powders of metals which bond to the diamond particles and to the ferrous substrate. The hard coating is particularly useful for white iron castings for pumps (200) used in piping tar sand and water mixtures.
Claims We claim: 1. An article of manufacture which comprises: (a) a ferrous substrate comprising carbon which requires a hard faced surface coating to reduce wear in use; and (b) a plurality of laser coated, overlapping layers on the substrate on a part of a single track width of a composite which provides the hard faced surface coating which is abrasion resistant comprising diamond particles in a metal matrix which melts at about 400.degree. C. to 900.degree. C., is melt bonded on the diamond particles, wherein the layers are melt bonded to the substrate. 2. The article of manufacture of claim 1 wherein the diamond particles are between about 40 and 100 microns in their largest dimension. 3. The article of manufacture of claim 1 wherein the matrix comprises copper, tin and titanium. 4. The article of manufacture of claim 3 wherein the matrix consists essentially of about 60 to 80% by weight copper, 15 to 25% by weight tin and 5 to 20% by weight titanium. 5. The article of manufacture of claim 1 wherein the plurality of overlapping layers on the substrate are 40 to 80% of a single track width. 6. The article of manufacture of claims 1, 2, 3, or 4 or 5, wherein the substrate is a casting of white iron or a steel comprising about 4% by weight or less of the carbon. 7. The article of manufacture of claim 1 wherein the diamond particles are naturally derived. 8. The article of manufacture of claim 1 wherein the diamond particles are synthetically derived. 9. In a pump comprising a rotatable fluid impeller and a housing supporting an impeller for rotation in the housing for the pumping, the improvement which comprises at least one surface inside of the pump with a hard faced surface coating which is abrasion resistant and which engages the fluid to be pumped, wherein the surface which is coated comprises a ferrous composition comprising carbon and wherein coating comprises a plurality of laser coated, overlapping layers on a part of a single track width of a composition comprising diamond particles in a metal matrix which melts at about 400.degree. C., to 900.degree. C., is melt bonded to the diamond particles, and wherein the layers are melt bonded to the substrate. 10. The pump of claim 9 wherein a face of an inlet plate which diverts flow of the fluid to the impeller has the hard faced surface coating. 11. The pump of claim 9 or 10 which comprises a white cast iron. 12. The pump of claim 9 wherein portions of the housing, the impeller and a diverter plate in the inlet of the pump comprise the hard face coating. 13. In a method of pumping a fluid containing abrasive particles, the improvement which comprises: (a) providing a pump comprising a rotatable fluid impeller and a housing supporting the impeller for the rotation in the housing for pumping, wherein at least one surface in the pump which engages the fluid to be pumped has a hard faced surface coating, wherein the surface which is coated comprises a ferrous composition comprising carbon and wherein the coating is abrasion resistant which comprises a plurality of laser coated, overlapping layers on a part of a single track width of a composition comprising diamond particles and a metal matrix which melts at about 400.degree. C. to 900.degree. C., is melt bonded to the diamond particles, and wherein the layers are melt bonded to the substrate; (b) pumping the fluid in the pump, wherein the layer of the coating inhibits erosion by the abrasive particles. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the abrasive particles are in a tar sand which is transported in an aqueous solution from a mining site. 15. The method of claim 13 or 14 wherein the pump comprises cast white iron on the surfaces in contact with the fluid and abrasive particles. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein portions of the housing, the impeller and a suction liner for an inlet of the pump comprise the hard face coating. 17. In a pumping system comprising a rotatable fluid impeller and a housing supporting the impeller for the rotation in the housing for pumping and piping, the improvement which comprises at least one surface inside of the pump with a hard faced surface coating which is abrasion resistant and which engages the fluid to be pumped, wherein the surface which is coated comprises a ferrous composition comprising carbon and wherein coating comprises a plurality of laser coated, overlapping layers on a part of a single track width of a composition comprising diamond particles in a metal matrix which melts at about 400.degree. C. to 900.degree. C., is melt bonded to the diamond particle, and wherein the layers are melt bonded to the substrate. 18. The pumping system of claim 17 wherein a face of an inlet plate which diverts flow of the fluid to the impeller has the hard faced surface coating. 19. In a method of pumping a fluid in a pumping system containing abrasive particles, the improvement which comprises: (a) providing a pump in the pumping system with piping comprising a rotatable fluid impeller and a housing supporting an impeller for and optionally portions of piping in the system for the rotation, wherein at least one surface in the pump and optionally portions of piping in the system which engages the fluid to be pumped has a hard faced surface coating, wherein the surface which is coated comprises a ferrous composition comprising carbon and wherein the coating comprises a plurality of laser coated, overlapping layers on a part of a single track width of a composition comprising diamond particles and a metal matrix which melts at about 400.degree. C. to 900.degree. C., is melt bonded to the diamond particles, and wherein the layers are melt bonded to the substrate; (b) pumping the fluid in the pumping system, wherein the layer of the coating inhibits erosion by the abrasive particles. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the abrasive particles are in a tar sand which is transported in an aqueous solution from a mining site. 21. An article of manufacture which comprises: (a) a ferrous substrate comprising carbon which requires a hard faced surface coating to reduce wear in use; and (b) layers in a plurality of laser coated tracks of a composite which provides the hard faced surface coating comprising diamond particles in a metal matrix is melt bonded on the diamond particles, and wherein the layers are melt bonded to the substrate, wherein the matrix comprises copper, tin and titanium which melts at about 400.degree. C. to 900.degree. C., and wherein the substrate is a casting of white iron or a steel comprising about 4% by weight or less of the carbon. 22. An article of manufacture which comprises: (a) a ferrous substrate comprising carbon which requires a hard faced surface coating to reduce wear in use; and (b) layers in a plurality of tracks of a composite which provides the hard faced surface coating comprising diamond particles in a metal matrix is bonded on the diamond particles, and wherein the layers are bonded to the substrate, and wherein the matrix consists essentially of about 60 to 80% by weight copper, 15 to 25% by weight tin and 5 to 20% by weight titanium. 23. The article of manufacture of claim 22 wherein the substrate is a coating of which iron or steel comprising about 4% by weight or less of the carbon. 24. In a pump comprising a rotatable fluid impeller and a housing supporting an impeller for rotation in the housing for the pumping, the improvement which comprises at least one surface inside of the pump with a hard faced surface coating which engages the fluid to be pumped, wherein the surface which is coated comprises a ferrous composition comprising carbon and wherein coating comprises a plurality of overlapping layers on a part of a single track width of a composition comprising diamond particles in a metal matrix which is bonded to the diamond particles, and wherein the layers are bonded to the substrate, wherein the matrix consists essentially of about 60 to 80% by weight copper, 15 to 25% by weight tin and 5 to 20% by weight titanium. 25. The pump of claim 24 wherein a face of an inlet plate which diverts flow of the fluid to the impeller has the hard faced surface coating. 26. The pump of claim 9 or 25 which comprises a white cast iron. 27. The pump of claim 24 wherein portions of the housing, the impeller and a diverter plate in the inlet of the pump comprise the hard face coating. 28. The pump of claim 24 wherein the substrate is a casting of white iron or a steel comprising about 4% by weight or less of the carbon. 29. In a method of pumping a fluid containing abrasive particles, the improvement which comprises: (a) providing a pump comprising a rotatable fluid impeller and a housing supporting the impeller for the rotation in the housing for pumping, wherein at least one surface in the pump which engages the fluid to be pumped has a hard faced surface coating, wherein the surface which is coated comprises a ferrous composition comprising carbon and wherein the coating comprises a plurality of overlapping layers on a part of a single track width of a composition comprising diamond particles and a metal matrix bonded to the diamond particles, and wherein the layers are bonded to the substrate and wherein the matrix consists essentially of about 60 to 80% by weight copper, 15 to 25% by weight tin and 5 to 20% by weight titanium; (b) pumping the fluid in the pump, wherein the layer of the coating inhibits erosion by the abrasive particles. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein the abrasive particles are in a tar sand which is transported in an aqueous solution from a mining site. 31. The method of claim 29 or 30 wherein the pump comprises cast white iron on the surfaces in contact with the fluid and abrasive particles. 32. The method of claim 29 wherein portions of the housing, the impeller and a suction liner for an inlet of the pump comprise the hard face coating. 33. The method of claim 29 wherein the substrate is a casting of white iron or a steel comprising about 4% by weight or less of the carbon. 34. In a pumping system comprising a rotatable fluid impeller and a housing supporting the impeller for the rotation in the housing for pumping and piping, the improvement which comprises at least one surface inside of the pump and optionally portions of the piping in the system with a hard faced surface coating which engages the fluid to be pumped, wherein the surface which is coated comprises a ferrous composition comprising carbon and wherein coating comprises a plurality of overlapping layers on a part of a single track width of a composition comprising diamond particles in a metal matrix which is bonded to the diamond particle, and wherein the layers are bonded to the substrate wherein the matrix consists essentially of about 60 to 80% by weight copper, 15 to 25% by weight tin and 5 to 20% by weight titanium. 35. The pumping system of claim 34 wherein a face of an inlet plate which diverts flow of the fluid to the impeller has the hard faced surface coating. 36. The system of claim 34 wherein the substrate is a casting of white iron or a steel comprising about 4% by weight or less of the carbon. 37. In a method of pumping a fluid in a pumping system containing abrasive particles, the improvement which comprises: (a) providing a pump in the pumping system with piping comprising a rotatable fluid impeller and a housing supporting an impeller for and optionally portions of piping in the system for the rotation, wherein at least one surface in the pump and optionally portions of piping in the system which engages the fluid to be pumped has a hard faced surface coating, wherein the surface which is coated comprises a ferrous composition comprising carbon and wherein the coating comprises a plurality of overlapping layers on a part of a single track width of a composition comprising diamond particles and a metal matrix bonded to the diamond particles, and wherein the layers are bonded to the substrate wherein the matrix consists essentially of about 60 to 80% by weight copper, 15 to 25% by weight tin and 5 to 20% by weight titanium; (b) pumping the fluid in the pumping system, wherein the layer of the coating inhibits erosion by the abrasive particles. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein the abrasive particles are in a tar sand which is transported in an aqueous solution from a mining site. 39. The method of claim 37 wherein the substrate is a casting of white iron or a steel comprising about 4% by weight or less of the carbon. 40. An article of manufacture which comprises: (a) a ferrous substrate comprising carbon which requires a hard faced surface coating to reduce wear in use; and (b) layers in a plurality of tracks of a composite which provides the hard faced surface coating comprising diamond particles in a metal matrix is bonded on the diamond particles, and wherein the layers are bonded to the substrate, wherein the matrix comprises copper, tin and titanium and wherein the substrate is a casting of white iron or a steel comprising about 4% by weight or less of the carbon wherein the matrix consists essentially of about 60 to 80% by weight copper, 15 to 25% by weight tin and 5 to 20% by weight titanium. 