Ultrasonic probe comprising an elongate body having a first end and a second end, an ultrasonic transducer attached to the probe at or adjacent the first end, and an enlarged support section intermediate the ultrasonic transducer and the second end, wherein the enlarged support section has an equivalent diameter greater than an equivalent diameter of the body at any location between the enlarged support section and the ultrasonic transducer. The probe may be used to introduce ultrasonic energy into ultrasonic cleaning systems.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An ultrasonic probe assembly comprising (a) a seal assembly comprising a seal body having a first end and a second end, an axis passing through the first end and the second end, and a coaxial cylindrical passage within the seal assembly between the first end and the second end; (b) An ultrasonic probe comprising an elongate body having a first end and a second end, an ultrasonic transducer attached to the probe at or adjacent the first end, and a cylindrical collar support section intermediate the ultrasonic transducer and the second end, wherein the probe is a cylindrical section with an unchanged diameter between the ultrasonic transducer and the collar support section, the collar support section has a diameter greater than diameter of the cylinder between the ultrasonic transducer and the collar support section, the cylindrical section of the probe is disposed coaxially within the cylindrical passage of the seal body such that the collar support section is adjacent the second end of the seal body, and the diameter of the cylindrical collar support section is greater than the diameter of the cylindrical passage at the second end of the seal body; and (c) an elastomeric torroidal seal ring located at a vibrational node of the ultrasonic probe and disposed coaxially between the collar support section of the ultrasonic probe and the second end of the seal body. 2. The ultrasonic probe assembly of claim 1 wherein the cylindrical section of the ultrasonic probe extends beyond the first end of the seal body and wherein the ultrasonic probe assembly further comprises a compression fitting adapted to grip the ultrasonic probe and the first end of the seal body to maintain the ultrasonic probe in a coaxial position in the cylindrical passage of the seal assembly. 3. The ultrasonic probe assembly of claim 2 wherein the compression fitting includes a torroidal elastomeric ferrule comprising an elastomer selected from the group consisting of tetrafluoroethylene, chlorotrifluoroethylene, polyvinylidene fluoride,perfluoroalkoxy, polyethylene, unplasticized polyvinyl chloride, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, acetal, cellulose acetate butyrate, nylon, polypropylene, polycarbonate, polyphenylene oxide, polyphenylene sulfide, polysulfone, polyamide, polyimide, thermosetting plastic, natural rubber, hard rubber, chloroprene, neoprene, styrene rubber, nitrile rubber, butyl rubber, silicone rubber, chlorosulfonated polyethylene, polychlorotrifluoroethylene, polyvinyl chloride elastomer, cis-polybutadiene, cis-polyisoprene, ethylene-propylene rubber, carbon, and graphite. 4. The ultrasonic probe assembly of claim 1 wherein the ultrasonic probe comprises a metal or metal alloy. 5. The ultrasonic probe assembly of claim 1 wherein the seal body comprises a metal or metal alloy. 6. The ultrasonic probe assembly of claim 1 wherein the elastomeric torroidal seal ring comprises an elastomer selected from the group consisting of tetrafluoroethylene, chlorotrifluoroethylene, polyvinylidene fluoride, perfluoroalkoxy, polyethylene, unplasticized polyvinyl chloride, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, acetal, cellulose acetate butyrate, nylon, polypropylene, polycarbonate, polyphenylene oxide, polyphenylene sulfide, polysulfone, polyamide, polyimide, thermosetting plastic, natural rubber, hard rubber, chloroprene, neoprene, styrene rubber, nitrile rubber, butyl rubber, silicone rubber, chlorosulfonated polyethylene, polychlorotrifluoroethylene, polyvinyl chloride elastomer, cis-polybutadiene, cis-polyisoprene, ethylene-propylene rubbers, carbon, and graphite. 7. The ultrasonic probe assembly of claim 1 which further comprises a transducer assembly attached to the first end thereof. 8. An ultrasonic processing system comprising (a) An ultrasonic probe assembly including (1) a seal assembly comprising a seal body having a first end and a second end, an axis passing through the first end and the second end, and a coaxial cylindrical passage disposed between the first end and the second end; (2) An ultrasonic probe comprising an elongate body having a first end and a second end, an ultrasonic transducer attached to the probe at or adjacent the first end, and a cylindrical collar support section intermediate the ultrasonic transducer and the second end, wherein the probe is a cylindrical section with an unchanged diameter between the ultrasonic transducer and the collar support section, the collar support section has a diameter greater than the diameter of the cylinder between the ultrasonic transducer and the collar support section, the cylindrical section of the probe is disposed coaxially within the cylindrical passage of the seal body such that the collar support section is adjacent the second end of the seal body, and the diameter of the cylindrical collar section is greater than the diameter of the cylindrical passage at the second end of the seal body; and (3) an elastomeric torroidal seal ring located at a vibrational of the ultrasonic probe and disposed coaxially between the collar support section of the ultrasonic probe and the second end of the seal body; (b) a pressure vessel having an interior, an exterior, and at least one opening between the interior and the exterior; and (c) first sealing means associated with the second end of the seal assembly and second sealing means associated with the at least one opening in the pressure vessel, wherein the first and second sealing means are adapted to form a seal between the seal assembly and the pressure vessel; wherein the elastomeric torroidal seal ring is compressed between the collar support section and the second end of the seal body to form a seal between the interior and the exterior of the pressure vessel, and wherein the second end of the ultrasonic probe is disposed in the interior of the pressure vessel. 9. The ultrasonic processing system of claim 8 wherein the cylindrical section of the ultrasonic probe extends beyond the first end of the seal body and wherein the ultrasonic probe assembly further comprises a compression fitting adapted to grip the ultrasonic probe and the first end of the seal body to maintain the ultrasonic probe in a coaxial position in the cylindrical passage of the seal assembly. 10. The ultrasonic processing system of claim 8 wherein the ultrasonic probe assembly further comprises a transducer assembly attached to the first end thereof. 11. The ultrasonic processing system of claim 8 wherein the pressure vessel further comprises an inlet for introducing a fresh cleaning fluid into the pressure vessel and an outlet for withdrawing a contaminated cleaning fluid from the pressure vessel. 12. The ultrasonic processing system of claim 8 wherein the pressure vessel further comprises an inlet port for introducing one or more contaminated articles into the pressure vessel and an outlet port for withdrawing one or more cleaned articles from the pressure vessel. 