A robot obstacle detection system including a robot housing which navigates with respect to a surface and a sensor subsystem aimed at the surface for detecting the surface. The sensor subsystem includes an emitter which emits a signal having a field of emission and a photon detector having a field of view which intersects the field of emission at a region. The subsystem detects the presence of an object proximate the mobile robot and determines a value of a signal corresponding to the object. It compares the value to a predetermined value, moves the mobile robot in response to the comparison, and updates the predetermined value upon the occurrence of an event.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a substantially circular robot housing; a drive system housed by the robot housing and configured to maneuver the robot with respect to a wall; at least one sensor component housed in a forward portion of the robot housing and aimed at the wall for detecting the presence of the wall, the sensor component comprising: an emitter that emits a directed beam having a defined field of emission; and a detector having a defined field of view that intersects the field of emission of the emitter, the intersection of the field of emission and the field of view defining a volume of intersection space forward of the robot housing; and a circuit in communication with the detector and the drive system for redirecting the robot when the wall occupies the intersection space. 2. The robot of claim 1 further comprising an emitter collimator about the emitter for directing the emission beam and a detector collimator about the photon detector to define the field of view, the emitter collimator and the detector collimator being angled with respect to the wall to define a finite volume of intersection space. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein the volume of intersection space substantially defines a cone shape. 4. The robot of claim 1, wherein the circuit provides an output when a wall is not present in the volume of intersection space, the circuit output causing the robot to be directed back towards the wall while the wall does not occupy the intersection space. 5. The robot of claim 1 further comprising at least two edge cleaning heads carried on opposite sides of the housing and driven about a non-horizontal axis, each edge cleaning head extending beyond a lateral extent of the housing to engage the surface while the robot is maneuvered across the surface. 