The column according to the present invention provides greatly increased effective length and tortuosity, per unit length of column material, by providing a smooth or textured, tight radius helical channel or channels within a silica monolith. The capillary according to the present invention is useful in enabling fully automated massively parallel analyses, syntheses, separations and concentrations at reduced costs and higher speed as well as in immobilization, filtration, and miniaturization/acceleration/automation of classical instrumentation for practicality of general deployment in environmental threat monitoring and other applications.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for forming a capillary column comprising the steps of providing a glass rod, scribing a recessed pattern on an exterior surface of the glass rod by focusing and indexing at least one laser along the axis of the rod while the rod is under rotation, providing a thin walled glass sleeve that is slightly larger in bore than the glass rod, inserting the patterned glass rod within the glass sleeve and fusing the glass sleeve to the exterior surface of the glass rod while not filling in the recessed pattern by rotating the assembly and defocusing the laser focal point to a location than on the assembly outer diameter so as to just melt a portion of the thin walled glass sleeve that is adjacent non-recessed portions of the glass rod and fusing the melted portion of the thin walled glass sleeve to non-recessed portions of the glass rod, thereby defining a capillary column in the shape of the recessed pattern. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the at least one laser is selected from the group comprising CO.sub.2, CO, YAG, YIG and Excimer lasers. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the glass rod is a fused quartz, a fused silica, a doped fused silica, sapphire, a ceramic or a compound glass. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the recessed pattern is a single helical channel, a multiple parallel helical channel, a multiple serial helical channel, a multiple mixed serial and parallel helical channel, crossed helical channels or a non-helical channel. 5. A method for forming a capillary column comprising the steps of providing a glass tube, scribing a recessed pattern on an exterior surface of the glass tube by focusing and indexing at least one laser along the axis of the tube while the tube is under rotation, providing a thin walled glass sleeve that is slightly larger in bore than the glass tube, inserting the patterned glass tube within the glass sleeve and fusing the glass sleeve to the exterior surface of the glass tube while not filling in the recessed pattern by rotating the assembly and defocusing the laser focal point to a location than on the assembly outer diameter so as to just melt a portion of the thin walled glass sleeve that is adjacent non-recessed portions of the glass tube and fusing the melted portion of the thin walled glass sleeve to non-recessed portions of the glass tube, thereby forming a capillary in the shape of the recessed pattern. 6. The method according to claim 5 wherein the at least one laser is selected from the group comprising CO.sub.2, CO, YAG, YIG and Excimer lasers. 7. The method according to claim 5 wherein the glass rod is a fused quartz, a fused silica, a doped fused silica, sapphire, a ceramic or a compound glass. 8. The method according to claim 5 wherein the recessed pattern is a single helical channel, a multiple parallel helical channel, a multiple serial helical channel, a multiple mixed serial and parallel helical channel, crossed helical channels or a non-helical channel. 