Apparatus, systems, and methods for inspecting a structure are provided which permit inspection of uniquely shaped structures such as fuselage frames and shear ties. Probes may be constructed from rapid prototyping. Inspection may be performed manually and may use a portable function support system for delivering fluid couplant, controlling transmit and receive functions of the inspection sensors, and delivering immediate visual analysis for an operator. Integrated ultrasonic inspection apparatus, systems, and methods facilitate fast and efficient custom inspection devices and inspecting otherwise difficult-to-inspect structures.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A non-destructive inspection apparatus for inspecting a structure, comprising: at least two ultrasonic inspection sensors configured for inspecting the structure as the sensors are moved over the structure; and at least a first sensor holder and a second sensor holder, each sensor holder defining at least one sensor recess for respectively supporting and orienting the at least two ultrasonic inspection sensors, wherein the first and second sensor holders are configured for traveling over opposing surfaces of a first portion of the structure and opposing surfaces of a second portion of the structure, wherein the first portion and second portion of the structure are defined with a radius therebetween, and wherein the at least one sensor recesses in each of the first and second sensor holders are respectively configured to orient the at least two ultrasonic inspection sensors of the first and second sensor holders to inspect at least a portion of at least one of the first portion and the second portion of the structure. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and second sensor holders are configured for inspecting and traveling over at least a portion of a fuselage frame, and wherein the first portion of the structure is a fuselage frame flange and the second portion of the structure is a fuselage frame web. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the at least one sensor recess in each of the first and second sensor holders is respectively configured to orient the at least two ultrasonic inspection sensors in each of the first and second sensor holders to inspect at least a portion of the fuselage frame flange. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the at least one sensor recess in each of the first and second sensor holders is respectively configured to orient the at least two ultrasonic inspection sensors in each of the first and second sensor holders to inspect at least a portion of the fuselage frame web. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the at least one sensor recess in each of the first and second sensor holders is respectively configured to orient the at least two ultrasonic inspection sensors in each of the first and second sensor holders to inspect at least a portion of the fuselage frame radius. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein each of the first and second sensor holders defines a plurality of sensor recesses with respective ultrasonic inspection sensors disposed therein, wherein at least one of the plurality of sensor recesses is configured to orient at least one of the plurality of ultrasonic inspection sensors to inspect at least a portion of the fuselage frame flange, and wherein at least one of the plurality of sensor recesses is configured to orient at least one of the plurality of ultrasonic inspection sensors to inspect at least a portion of the fuselage frame web. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least two ultrasonic inspection sensors in at least one of the first and second sensor holders, and wherein at least the sensor holder having the at least two ultrasonic inspection sensors comprises a bubbler shoe configured for independently dispersing a couplant between each of the at least two ultrasonic inspection sensors held by the sensor holder having the at least two ultrasonic inspection sensors and a surface of the structure over which the apparatus travels for inspection of the structure. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one rod for supporting a clam-like closure between the first and second sensor holders, wherein the at least one rod is fixed with respect to a position of one of the first and second sensor holders and the other of the first and second sensor holders is slidably movable along the length of the at least one rod. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a constant force means for applying a force between the at least one rod and one of the sensor holders to encourage the clam-like closure between the first and second sensor holders to close the first and second sensor holders upon the opposing surfaces of the first portion of the structure and thereby provide rigid support of the apparatus with respect to the first portion of the structure for performing non-destructive inspection of at least a portion of the first portion of the structure. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the constant force means comprises a spring disposed about the at least one rod, and wherein the spring and the at least one rod act to provide a spring-loaded force to encourage the clam-like closure between the first and second sensor holders to close the first and second sensor holders upon the opposing surfaces of the first portion of the structure and thereby provide rigid support of the apparatus with respect to the first portion of the structure for performing non-destructive inspection of at least a portion of the first portion of the structure. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising at least one secondary rod for supporting a clam-like closure between a third portion of the apparatus, separate from both the first and second sensor holders, and the second sensor holder, wherein the at least one secondary rod is fixed with respect to a position of the second sensor holder and the third portion of the apparatus is slidably movable along the length of the at least one secondary rod, wherein clam-like closure supported by the at least one rod closes the first and second sensor holders around the first portion of the structure to provide rigid support of the apparatus with respect to the first portion of the structure, and wherein clam-like closure supported by the at least one secondary rod closes the second sensor holder and third portion of the apparatus around the second portion of the structure to provide rigid support of the apparatus with respect to the second portion of the structure. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a positional encoder to contact and ride along a surface of the structure under inspection and capable of generating positional data related to the positional change as the apparatus travels along a length of the structure for inspection. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the positional encoder is configured for measuring and generating positional data related to a characteristic of the apparatus with respect to the structure under inspection selected from the group consisting of: position, speed, direction, and velocity. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the positional encoder is attached by a spring-loaded carrier means to exert a force to encourage the positional encoder to contact a surface of the structure under inspection. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second sensor holders comprises a fluid manifold and a fluid inlet port connected to the fluid manifold, wherein the fluid inlet port is configured for injecting a fluid into the fluid manifold, and wherein the sensor holder having the fluid manifold and fluid inlet port is further configured for permitting the dispersion of fluid from the fluid manifold between the at least one sensor recess defined by the sensor holder having the fluid manifold and fluid inlet port and the structure. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the sensor holder is further configured to define a bubbler shoe as the fluid manifold. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a motion device capable of moving the first and second sensor holders over at least the first and second portions of the structure. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the motion device comprises a motor with an attached wheel. 19. A non-destructive inspection apparatus for inspecting a structure, comprising: at least one ultrasonic inspection sensor configured for inspecting the structure as the sensor is moved over the structure; and at least a first sensor holder and a second sensor holder, each sensor holder defining at least one sensor recess for supporting and orienting the at least one ultrasonic inspection sensor, wherein the first and second sensor holders are configured for traveling over opposing surfaces of a first portion of the structure and opposing surfaces of a second portion of the structure, wherein the first portion and second portion of the structure are defined with a radius therebetween, and wherein the at least one sensor recesses in each of the first and second sensor holders are configured to orient the at least one ultrasonic inspection sensors of the first and second sensor holders to inspect at least a portion of the radius between the first portion and the second portion of the structure. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein at least one of the first and second sensor holders is configured to be removably affixed to the apparatus to permit a rigid orientation between the first and second sensor holders. 21. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein at least the first sensor holder comprises a wing appendage for supporting the first sensor holder against the structure. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the wing appendage is tapered over at least a portion of the surface of the wing appendage which supports the first sensor holder against the structure. 23. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the first and second sensor holders are configured for inspecting and traveling over at least a portion of a fuselage frame, wherein the first portion of the structure is a fuselage frame flange and the second portion of the structure is a fuselage frame web, and wherein the radius is a fuselage frame radius. 24. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a positional encoder to contact and ride along a surface of the structure under inspection and capable of generating positional data related to the positional change as the apparatus travels along a length of the structure for inspection. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the positional encoder is configured for measuring and generating positional data related to a characteristic of the apparatus with respect to the structure under inspection selected from the group consisting of: position, speed, direction, and velocity. 26. A non-destructive inspection apparatus for inspecting a structure, comprising: at least one pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensor configured for inspecting the structure as the sensor is moved over the structure; a sensor holder defining at least one sensor recess for supporting and orienting the at least one ultrasonic inspection sensor, wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least a portion of a first portion of the structure and a second portion of the structure, wherein the first portion and second portion of the structure are defined with a radius therebetween, wherein the sensor holder is configured for being supported on and traveling over the structure about the convex curvature of the radius, wherein the at least one sensor recess is configured to orient the at least one ultrasonic inspection sensor to inspect at least a portion of radius between the first portion and the second portion of the structure; and at least one wing appendage attached to the sensor holder for supporting the first sensor holder against the structure. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the wing appendage is tapered over at least a portion of the surface of the wing appendage which supports the sensor holder against the structure. 28. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the sensor holder is configured for inspecting and traveling over at least a portion of a fuselage shear tie, wherein the first portion of the structure is a fuselage shear tie flange, wherein the second portion of the structure is a fuselage shear tie web, and wherein the radius is a fuselage shear tie radius. 29. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising a positional encoder to contact and ride along a surface of the structure under inspection and capable of generating positional data related to the positional change as the apparatus travels along a length of the structure for inspection. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the positional encoder is configured for measuring and generating positional data related to a characteristic of the apparatus with respect to the structure under inspection selected from the group consisting of: position, speed, direction, and velocity. 