Methods for specifying the layout of a MALDI sample plate are provided. In general, the methods involve creating a file containing sample plate layout parameters that describe the layout of a MALDI sample plate, and storing the file on a computer readable medium prior to placement of the MALDI sample plate into a MALDI ion source. In many embodiments, the file includes information about the size or shape of the sample plate, or information about the size, shape or position of a sample on the sample plate. In many embodiments, a MALDI sample plate is placed in a MALDI ion source and a stored layout file for the sample plate is accessed and used to position an area of the sample plate in a laser beam. The subject methods, kits and apparatus find use in a variety of different mass spectrometry applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of positioning a sample on a MALDI sample plate in a laser beam, comprising: a) storing a file comprising parameters that describe a perimeter of a sample on the MALDI sample plate; b) placing said MALDI sample plate in a MALDI ion source; c) accessing said stored file for said MALDI sample plate; and d) positioning the sample in relation to the laser beam such that the sample is in the laser beam using said parameters. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein positioning comprises moving the sample relative to the laser beam. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein positioning comprises moving the laser beam relative to the sample. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said accessing comprises using a barcode associated with said MALDI sample plate. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising ionizing a portion of said sample using said laser beam. 6. A method for positioning a MALDI sample plate in a MALDI ion source with respect to a laser beam, comprising: (a) storing parameters that describe a perimeter of a sample on said sample plate in a computer readable file; (b) placing said MALDI sample plate in the MALDI ion source; and (c) adjusting the relative position of the MALDI sample plate and the laser beam such that a selected position on said MALDI sample plate is impacted by the laser beam; wherein said adjusting is done using the parameters of the computer readable file. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said computer readable file is created at a work station that is remote to said MALDI ion source. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said computer readable medium is accessible by said MALDI ion source. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein adjusting comprises moving the MALDI sample plate using the parameters and maintaining the laser beam in a fixed position. 10. The method of claim 6 wherein adjusting comprises moving the laser beam using the parameters and maintaining the MALDI sample plate in a fixed position. 11. A method for operating a MALDI ion source, comprising: (a) storing sample plate layout parameters that describes a perimeter of a sample on a MALDI sample plate into a computer readable file; (b) placing said MALDI sample plate in the MALDI ion source (c) positioning the MALDI sample plate using the sample plate layout parameters; and (d) ionizing said sample on the MALDI sample plate with a laser beam. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein steps (a), (b) and (c) are automated. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein said information is stored in permanent memory. 14. A method of preparing a sample, comprising: (a) depositing a sample on a MALDI sample plate; (b) creating a file comprising parameters that describe a perimeter of said sample on said MALDI sample plate; and (c) storing the file on a computer readable medium wherein said creating and said storing are done prior to placement of said MALDI sample plate in said MALDI ion source. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the sample is a sample trace. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the sample trace is an irregular shape. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the irregular shape is selected from liner, non-linear, and elongate. 