A mine avoidance and protection device has a frame adapted to be secured to a source of a load, such as the foot of a person. Attached to the frame are at least three support legs each extending from the frame. Each leg has a releasable joint between the leg and the frame. At least one detector is operable to provide a detection capability for each support leg, operable to detect a characteristic of a mine when at least a portion of the support leg is located proximate to the mine. An actuator operable to provide an actuation capability at the joint of each leg, to: constrain the joint to allow a load to be transmitted from the frame, through the joint and the support to the terrain. The actuator can also release the joint such that a load can not be transmitted from the frame through the joint. The joint between the plate and each leg may be a one degree-of-freedom prismatic joint or revolute joint.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mine device comprising a frame adapted to be secured to a source of a load; at least three support legs each extending from said frame for supporting said frame in spaced relation to a terrain, each said leg having a releasable joint between said leg and said frame; at least one detector operable to provide a detection capability for each support leg, each said detection capability operable to detect a characteristic of a mine when at least a portion of said support leg is located proximate to said mine; at least one actuator operable to provide an actuation capability at said joint of each said leg, said at least one actuator operable to: (a) constrain the joint to allow a load to be transmitted from said frame, through said joint and said support leg to said terrain; and (b) to release said joint such that a load can not be transmitted from said frame through said joint and said support leg to said terrain; said at least one actuator operable in response to a signal received from said at least one detector indicating the detection of said characteristic at a first leg of said support legs, to release each said joint associated with said first support leg; said at least one detector being in communication with said at least one actuator device, so as to be able to provide said signal from said at least one detector associated with each said detection capability to said at least one actuator associated with the corresponding actuation capability; whereby when said characteristic is detected proximate to a support leg, said at least one detector communicates with said at least one actuator to cause the actuator to release the constraint at the joint associated with that support leg. 2. A device according to claim 1, wherein said at least three legs comprises six legs. 3. A device as claimed in claim 2 wherein the detection capabilities for each support leg are separated from each other. 4. A device as claimed in claim 3 wherein said frame comprises a plate. 5. A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the detection capabilities for each support leg are separated from each other. 6. A device according to claim 5, wherein the joint between the frame and each leg is a one degree-of-freedom prismatic joint. 7. A device according to claim 5, wherein the joint between the frame and each leg is a one degree-of-freedom revolute joint. 8. A device as claimed in claim 5 wherein said at least one actuator comprises a separate actuator associated with each joint of each support leg and wherein each separate actuator comprises a linear actuator. 9. A device as claimed in claim 8 wherein said linear actuator is a solenoid having a follower for engaging and disengaging from said leg. 10. A device according to claim 1, wherein said at least one actuator comprises a separate actuator associated with each joint of each support leg. 11. A device as claimed in claim 10 wherein each separate actuator comprises a linear actuator. 12. A device as claimed in claim 11 wherein said linear actuator is a solenoid having a reciprocating follower for engaging and disengaging said leg. 13. A device as claimed in claim 10 wherein each separate actuator comprises a revolute actuator. 14. Device according to claim 10, whereby each separate actuator comprises an electromagnet at the plate, which is in contact with a ferromagnetic part of the leg and constrains the motion of the leg through generating a magnetic force, said magnetic force being disengaged upon receiving said signal. 15. A device according to claim 1, further comprising a secondary actuator for driving a support leg away from said terrain when said at least one actuator releases the joint associated with said support leg. 16. A device according to claim 1, whereby each of said support legs comprises a support pad mounted proximate to a distal end of each said leg, for contacting said terrain. 17. A device according to claim 16 further comprising flexible elements interconnected between said leg and said support pad providing adjustment of the support pad relative to the leg to more easily accommodate uneven ground. 18. A device as claimed in claim 17 further comprising elastic elements to provide for a dampening effect between said leg and said support pad. 19. A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said characteristic is the presence of a metal material. 20. A device as claimed in claim 1 wherein said characteristic is the presence of a plastic material. 21. A device as claimed in claim 20 wherein the detection capabilities for each support leg are separated from each other. 22. A device comprising: a plate having a lower surface area and being adapted to be secured to an appendage of a human being; at least three support legs each extending below the lower surface of said plate, for supporting said plate on terrain, each said leg having a distal end for engaging the terrain, each said leg movable in at least one degree of freedom relative to said plate at a joint when a ground reaction force is applied to said leg when said leg is not constrained; a detector system providing a detection capability associated with each said leg, said detection capability for detecting a characteristic of a mine when at least a portion of said leg is located proximate to said mine; an actuator device associated with each leg, operable to release the leg portion to allow movement in said at least one degree of freedom such that no load can be transmitted from said plate through said joint and said leg to said terrain, each said actuator operable in response to a signal received from said detection system associated with each said leg; said detection associated with each said leg, being in communication with said actuator device associated with the respective leg and operable to activate said actuator; whereby when said characteristic is detected by said detector, said detector system communicates with said actuator to cause the actuator to release the constraint and to allow the leg to move, at/about the joint, with respect to the plate once a metallic object is detected by the metal detector, such that the leg exerts a zero-force to the metallic object. 23. A method of avoiding the activation of a mine comprising: supporting a load with at least three support legs each in a constrained mode, each said leg having a constrained mode wherein said support leg participates in supporting said load on said terrain, and an unconstrained mode, wherein said leg does not participate in supporting said load on said terrain; detecting a characteristic of a mine when at least a portion of one of said three support legs is located proximate to said mine; in response to said detecting, sending a signal to an actuator; in response to said signal, transferring said one leg from said constrained mode to said unconstrained mode with said actuator such that said one leg no longer participates in supporting said load on said terrain. 24. A device for avoiding the activation of a mine comprising: a base for supporting a load with at least three support legs secured to said base, each said leg having a constrained mode wherein said support leg participates in supporting said load on said terrain, and an unconstrained mode, wherein said leg does not participate in supporting said load on said terrain; a detector system having a capability associated with each support leg for detecting a characteristic of a mine when at least a portion the respective support legs is located proximate to said mine; an actuation system having a capability associated with each support leg for transferring each support leg independently or the other support legs, from a constrained mode to an unconstrained mode; a communication system operable to send a signal to said actuation system in response to the detection of said characteristic; said actuation system, in response to receiving said signal from said communication system in relation to the detection of said characteristic in association with one of said three support legs, transferring said one leg from said constrained mode to said unconstrained mode such that said one leg no longer participates in supporting said load on said terrain. 25. A device as claimed in claim 24 wherein the detection capabilities for each support leg are separated from each other. 