A hobby robot having a support structure includes a cavity defined within the support structure, wherein the cavity includes means positioned within the cavity for removably coupling at least one mounting element to an interior portion of the cavity. The support structure also includes means for securing an encasement shell to the support structure. The mounting element may be a tray or hardware that performs a desired function in connection with the operation of the robot. The support structure is adapted to receive a self-contained power source and means for imparting motive force to the support structure.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A hobby robot comprising: a support structure; an encasement shell surrounding the support structure; means for securing the encasement shell to the support structure; at least one cavity defined within the support structure, said cavity adapted to receive a plurality of computer drive bay peripherals; means positioned within the cavity for supporting said peripherals spaced from each other, wherein the positions of the peripherals supported by the means for supporting are interchangeable; and an opening situated in the encasement shell, said opening sized to accommodate the insertion and removal of the peripherals into the cavity through said opening, wherein the cavity and the opening are arranged to allow each peripheral to simultaneously be situated within the cavity while protruding through the opening. 2. The hobby robot of claim 1, wherein the cavity is adapted to receive each peripheral in either a substantially horizontal orientation or a substantially vertical orientation. 3. The hobby robot of claim 1, wherein at least one peripheral comprises at least one of the following: a circuit board, a hard disk drive, an optical drive, a media reader, non-volatile/volatile memory, a slide rail, a speaker system, an I/O interface, a rack mount, a riser card, and a face plate. 4. The hobby robot of claim 1, further including a tray supported by the support structure for supporting hardware that performs a desired function in connection with the operation of the robot. 5. The hobby robot of claim 1, further comprising a face plate for covering at least a portion of the cavity. 6. The hobby robot of claim 1, wherein at least one peripheral comprises a circuit board. 7. The hobby robot of claim 1, wherein the support structure is adapted to support a self-contained power source. 8. The hobby robot of claim 1, wherein the support structure is adapted to support means for imparting motive force to the support structure. 9. The hobby robot of claim 1, wherein: the cavity is substantially 51/4 inches wide to accommodate the peripherals; and each peripheral is an industry standard 51/4 inch personal computer drive bay peripheral. 10. The hobby robot of claim 4, wherein the tray is slidably received in the cavity. 11. The hobby robot of claim 8, wherein the means for imparting motive force includes a motor coupled to one of one or more drive wheels, one or more treads, or a combination thereof. 12. A hobby robot comprising: a support structure; a cavity defined within the support structure and having a width of substantially 51/4 inches; means positioned within the cavity for removably supporting a plurality of industry standard 51/4 inch personal computer drive bay peripherals spaced from each other in an interior of the cavity; and means for securing an encasement shell to the support structure. 13. The hobby robot of claim 12, further comprising an encasement shell for receiving the support structure therein. 14. The hobby robot of claim 12, further comprising means attached to the support structure for imparting motive force to the support structure. 15. The hobby robot of claim 12, wherein each peripheral is either in a substantially horizontal orientation or a substantially vertical orientation. 16. The hobby robot of claim 12, wherein the means for securing the encasement shell to the support structure is one of a snap fit, friction fit, screwing and bolting. 17. The hobby robot of claim 12, wherein the means for removably coupling the peripherals includes slide rails, screws, and/or fasteners. 18. The hobby robot of claim 12, wherein the cavity is substantially rectilinear. 19. The hobby robot of claim 12, wherein at least one peripheral comprises at least one of the following: a circuit board, a hard disk drive, an optical drive, a media reader, a speaker system, a slide rail, an I/O interface, a riser card, a rack mount, a tray, or a face plate. 20. The hobby robot of claim 14, wherein the means for imparting motive force to the support structure includes one of the following: one or more wheels, one or more treads, or a combination thereof attached to the support structure. 21. A method of customizing a hobby robot having an encasement shell surrounding a support structure that defines first and second mounting spaces within a cavity thereof, the method comprising: installing a first personal computer drive bay peripheral in the first mounting space via an opening in the encasement shell; and installing a second personal computer drive bay peripheral in the second mounting space via the opening in the encasement shell, whereupon the first and second personal computer drive bay peripherals are situated in substantially spaced parallel relation in the cavity, wherein the first and second personal computer drive bay peripherals perform different functions. 