The purpose of the invention is to provide an improved electron beam apparatus with improvements in throughput, accuracy, etc. One of the characterizing features of the electron beam apparatus of the present invention is that it has a plurality of optical systems, each of which comprises a primary electron optical system for scanning and irradiating a sample with a plurality of primary electron beams; a detector device for detecting a plurality of secondary beams emitted by irradiating the sample with the primary electron beams; and a secondary electron optical system for guiding the secondary electron beams from the sample to the detector device; all configured so that the plurality of optical systems scan different regions of the sample with their primary electron beams, and detect the respective secondary electron beams emitted from each of the respective regions. This is what makes higher throughput possible. To provide high accuracy, the apparatus is configured such that the axes of its optical systems can be aligned, and aberrations corrected, by a variety of methods.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An electron bean apparatus comprising a plurality of optical systems, each of which comprises: an electron beam irradiating means, for irradiating a sample with primary electron beams, and scanning the sample by deflecting an incident angle of the primary electron beams within a prescribed range; a deflecting/separating means for deflecting secondary electron beams, which are generated by irradiation of the primary electron beams onto the sample, in a prescribed direction with respect to an optical axis of the electron beam irradiating means; and a detecting means for detecting the secondary electron beams deflected by the deflecting/separating means, wherein: said optical systems are arranged in two rows, such that paths of the secondary electron beams deflected by the deflecting/separating means do not interfere with each other; said optical systems are each capable of evaluating the sample by scanning different regions on the sample with their primary electron beams and detecting the respective secondary electron beams emitted from each of the respective regions. 2. An electron beam apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein: in each of the plurality of optical systems, the electron beam irradiating means irradiates a plurality of primary electron beams on the sample; and the detecting means uses a plurality of detector elements, which are separated from each other, to detect the plurality of secondary electron beams generated by irradiation of the plurality of primary electron beams. 3. An electron beam apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein the plurality of optical systems are arranged in a single row, and the paths of the secondary electron beams are arranged substantially perpendicular to a direction of the row of the optical systems; and evaluation of the sample is enabled by movement of the sample in a direction substantially perpendicular to the direction of the row. 4. An electron beam apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein the evaluation of the sample includes, at least, any one of an inspection for any defect of the sample, a measurement of a line width of a pattern formed on the sample, a measurement of electrical potential of the pattern, and a measurement of movement of the sample by irradiation of primary electron beams having a short pulse duration. 5. A charged particle beam control element for controlling a charged particle beam with an electrostatic field, the charged particle beam control element comprising: a base made from a cylindrical insulator and having a through-hole therein; a plurality of electrodes that are electrically insulated from each other and that are formed by a surface process performed on an inner surface of the base; a plurality of conductors formed by said surface process on at least an end surface of the base, such that they are electrically connected to the respective electrodes; and wires connected to the respective conductors. 6. A charged particle beam control element as recited in claim 5, wherein the base has slots that electrically isolate the electrodes and conductors from each other, whereby film-less surfaces for insulating the conductors from each other are provided in the surface on which the plurality of conductors are formed. 7. A charged particle beam element as recited in claim 6, wherein a shielding conductor is placed a prescribed distance away from said end surface, with said prescribed distance being less than the distance between said film-less surface portions of the slots and the electrode surfaces. 