A suction cup removably attached to a housing lifts and moves an object. A venturi removably attached to the housing provides a vacuum effect to secure the suction cup to the object. The venturi includes a pair of opposing ears. When the venturi is inserted into a venturi hole of the housing, the ears compress a pin. When the venturi is rotated to an attached position, the ears do not contact the pin, and a spring biases the pin outwardly to secure the venturi to the housing. The pin is coupled to a button on the housing that can be slid to move the pin inwardly to allow rotation and removal of venturi.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A venturi apparatus comprising: a housing including a cavity, an opening, a flange, and a gap defined between said flange and said housing; and a venturi removably attached to said housing and received in said cavity, said venturi creating a vacuum, wherein said venturi includes an ear received in said opening, of said housing when said venturi is in a non-attached position, wherein said venturi has an attached position and said non-attached position, and a resilient biased pin retains said venturi in said attached position, and wherein said venturi is rotated approximately 90.degree. to said attached position, wherein said ear is received in said gap in said attached position. 2. The venturi apparatus as recited in claim 1 further including a resilient member, and said resilient biased pin is biased into said opening by said resilient member. 3. A venturi apparatus comprising: a housing including a cavity, an opening, a flange, and a gap defined between said flange and said housing; a venturi removably attached to said housing and received in said cavity, said venturi creating a vacuum, wherein said venturi includes an ear received in said opening of said housing when said venturi is in a non-attached position, wherein said venturi is rotated approximately 90.degree. to an attached position, wherein said ear is received in said gap in said attached position; and a pin and a resilient member, wherein said pin is biased into said opening by said resilient member, wherein said ear presses said pin and compresses said resilient member when said venturi is in said non-attached position, said resilient member biases said pin in said opening when said venturi is rotated approximately 90.degree. to said attached position, and said pin prevents rotation of said venturi to said non-attached position when said venturi is in said attached position. 4. The venturi apparatus as recited in claim 3 further including a release pin that engages said pin, and said release pin is slidable to move said pin and compress said resilient member to remove said pin from said opening, allowing said venturi to be rotated from said attached position to said non-attached position. 5. A venturi apparatus comprising: a housing including a cavity, an opening, a flange, and a gap defined between said flange and said housing; a venturi removably attached to said housing and received in said cavity, said venturi creating a vacuum, wherein said venturi includes an ear received in said opening of said housing when said venturi is in a non-attached position, wherein said venturi is rotated approximately 90.degree. to an attached position, wherein said ear is received in said gap in said attached position; a pin and a resilient member, wherein said pin is biased into said opening by said resilient member; and a stop in said gap that prevents said venturi from rotating more than 90.degree.. 6. A venturi apparatus comprising: a housing including a venturi cavity and a suction cup cavity, wherein a suction cup is removably attached to said housing and said suction cup includes a portion received in said suction cup cavity; a venturi removably attachable to said housing and securable in an attached position in said venturi cavity with a quick connect attachment, wherein said venturi creates a vacuum; and a biased locking member that resists movement of said venturi from said attached position. 7. A venturi apparatus comprising: a housing including a venturi cavity and a suction cup cavity, a flange, and a gap defined between said flange and said housing; a venturi removably attached to said housing and received in said venturi cavity, said venturi creating a vacuum; and a suction cup removably attached to said housing and said suction cup including a portion received in said suction cup cavity, said suction cup including an ear received in said suction cup cavity of said housing when said suction cup is in a non-attached position. 8. The venturi apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein said suction cup is rotated approximately 90.degree. to an attached position, wherein said ear is received in said gap in said attached position. 9. The venturi apparatus as recited in claim 8 further including a pin and a resilient member, and said pin is biased into said opening by said resilient member. 10. The venturi apparatus as recited in claim 9 wherein said ear presses said pin and compresses said resilient member when said suction cup is in said non-attached position, said resilient member biases said pin in said suction cup opening when said suction cup is rotated approximately 90.degree. to said attached position, and said pin prevents rotation of said suction cup to said non-attached position when said suction cup is in said attached position. 11. The venturi apparatus as recited in claim 10 further including a release pin that engages said pin, and said release pin is slidable to move said pin and compress said resilient member to remove said pin from said suction cup opening, allowing said suction cup to be rotated from said attached position to said non-attached position. 12. The venturi apparatus as recited in claim 9 further including a stop in said gap that prevents said suction cup from rotating more than 90.degree.. 13. A venturi apparatus comprising: a housing including a venturi cavity, a venturi opening, a venturi flange and a venturi gap defined between said venturi flange and said housing, and a suction cup cavity including a suction cup opening, a suction cup flange, and a suction cup gap defined between said suction cup flange and said housing; a venturi removably attached to said housing and received in said venturi opening, said venturi including a venturi ear received in said venturi opening of said housing when said venturi is in a venturi non-attached position, and said venturi is rotated to a venturi attached position such that said venturi ear is received in said venturi gap; and a suction cup removably attached to said housing and said suction cup including a portion received in said suction cup opening, said suction cup including a suction cup ear received in said suction cup opening of said housing when said suction cup is in a suction cup non-attached position, and said suction cup is rotated to a suction cup attached position such that said suction cup ear is received in said suction cup gap. 14. The venturi apparatus as recited in claim 13 wherein said venturi is inside said housing. 15. The venturi apparatus as recited in claim 13 further including a seal between said venturi and said housing. 16. The venturi apparatus as recited in claim 13 wherein said venturi includes a passage having a tapered portion, and said vacuum is created as air passes through said tapered portion. 17. A venturi apparatus comprising: a housing including a cavity; a venturi removably attachable to said housing and securable in an attached position in said cavity with a quick connect attachment, wherein said venturi creates a vacuum; a biased locking member that resists movement of said venturi from said attached position, wherein said biased locking member comprises an elongate locking pin and a spring, wherein said biased locking member comprises an elongated locking pin and a spring, said elongated locking pin being moveable between a locked position and an unlocked position; and a button coupled with said elongated locking pin, wherein said button is actuatable to move said elongated locking pin from said locked position to said unlocked position; and a locking member extendable through said button and receivable into said elongated locking pin, said locking member preventing said button from moving from said locked position to said unlocked position when said locking member is received into said elongated locking pin. 