The present invention is directed to aligning wafers within semiconductor fabrication tools. More particularly, one or more aspects of the present invention pertain to quickly and efficiently finding an alignment marking, such as an alignment notch, on a wafer to allow the wafer to be appropriately oriented within an alignment tool. Unlike conventional systems, the notch is located without firmly holding and spinning or rotating the wafer. Exposure to considerable backside contaminants is thereby mitigated and the complexity and/or cost associated with aligning the wafer is thereby reduced.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system adapted to locate an alignment marking on a semiconductor wafer comprising: a shaft; a sleeve moveably mounted upon the shaft; one or more support pins mounted to one end of the shaft and adapted to support a wafer situated thereon; and an arm member operatively coupled to the sleeve, an end of the arm member extending up toward the wafer when the wafer resides on the one or more support pins, the end of the arm member operative to establish a beam of radiation that may be intersected by the perimeter of the wafer, wherein the wafer can be scanned when on the support pins by rotating the arm member around the perimeter of the wafer and the marking can be identified by a change in the amount of radiation transmitted past the wafer. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a controller operatively coupled to the arm to regulate the movement of the arm and to obtain scan data from one or more sensors relating to the amount of radiation transmitted past the wafer at various locations around the wafer. 3. The system of claim 2, the controller also operatively coupled to a robotic arm adapted to place the wafer upon the pins and to remove the wafer from the pins and transfer the wafer to a semiconductor processing tool. 4. The system of claim 3, the controller also operatively coupled to the processing tool to transfer data thereto, the processing tool capable of properly orienting the wafer therein in response to an orientation of the wafer from the robotic arm and scan data. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a display adapted to present scan data to a user. 6. The system of claim 2, wherein the controller is configured to identify a center of the wafer by observing gradual changes in the amount of radiation transmitted past the wafer at various locations around the wafer. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam of radiation has a width of about one centimeter. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the beam of radiation has a substantially elliptical cross section. 9. The system of claim 2, wherein the beam of radiation is established from a radiation emitting source located upon a protrusion situated over or under the wafer and emanating from the end of the arm member. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more sensors are located within another protrusion emanating from the end of the arm member and situated under or over the wafer and opposite the protrusion containing the radiation emitting source. 11. The system of claim 1, further comprising one or more pivot points between the arm and the sleeve that allow the end of the arm to move closer to or away from the wafer. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the pins contact a small amount of surface area of a backside of the water to mitigate particle contamination. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the alignment marking comprises a notch within the perimeter of the wafer. 14. A mechanism adapted to locate an alignment marking on a semiconductor wafer comprising: a support structure for supporting the wafer, the support structure contacting a small amount of surface area of a backside of the wafer to mitigate particle contamination; a member that moves relative to the wafer when the wafer is supported on the support structure and that directs a beam of radiation having a substantially elliptical cross section at the perimeter of the wafer; and a controller operatively coupled to the member to regulate the movement of the member and to obtain scan data from one or more sensors relating to the amount of radiation transmitted past the wafer at various locations around the wafer, and to identify the marking when there is a change in the amount of radiation transmitted past the wafer and to identify a center of the wafer by observing gradual changes in the amount of radiation transmitted past the wafer at various locations around the wafer. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the beam of radiation has a width of about one centimeter. 