The use of microfluidic structures enables high throughput screening of protein crystallization. In one embodiment, an integrated combinatoric mixing chip allows for precise metering of reagents to rapidly create a large number of potential crystallization conditions, with possible crystal formations observed on chip. In an alternative embodiment, the microfluidic structures may be utilized to explore phase space conditions of a particular protein crystallizing agent combination, thereby identifying promising conditions and allowing for subsequent focused attempts to obtain crystal growth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of crystallization comprising: utilizing a microfluidic formulator device to generate a solubility fingerprint of a crystallization target over a range of conditions; utilizing the microfluidic formulator to map phase space around precipitating conditions of the solubility fingerprint resulting in precipitation of the crystallization target and soluble conditions of the solubility fingerprint where the crystallization target precipitate dissolves; and determining a hysteresis between precipitating and soluble phase spaces. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the solubility fingerprint is generated by combining the crystallization target with a buffer and a precipitant. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the solubility fingerprint is generated by combining the crystallization target with the buffer, the precipitant, and an additive. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the solubility fingerprint is generated by combining the crystallization target with the precipitant comprising polyethylene glycol, and with the additive comprising a salt. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein a mixed volume of the crystallization target and the precipitant is about 1 .mu.L or less. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein solubility of the target is indicated by a change in transmission of incident light through a mixing chamber. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising: imaging a portion of the mixing chamber; calculating a standard deviation of pixel intensities of light transmitted through the portion; and comparing the standard deviation to a background value recorded in an absence of the crystallization target. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein an approximate linear dependence of pixel standard deviation on crystallization target concentration indicates precipitation of the crystallization target. 9. The method of claim 2 wherein the conditions are generated by mixing the crystallization target with a precipitant in a rotary flow microfluidic device. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising designing an optimal screen for the crystallization target based upon the phase space map. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the phase space map indicates a boundary of a precipitation region for the crystallization target, the method further comprising designing an optimal screen for the crystallization target so that a final condition is located on the boundary of the precipitation region. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein the final condition is achieved by mixing the crystallization target with a precipitant in a microfluidic device. 13. The method of claim 8 wherein the final condition is achieved by performing at least one of a microbatch and a hanging drop crystallization experiment. 14. The method of claim 1 further comprising: mapping a first phase space by altering a concentration of at least one of the crystallization target and a precipitant in order to precipitate the crystallization target; observing a condition of initial precipitation as a first precipitation threshold; mapping a second phase space by altering the concentration of least one of the crystallization target and the precipitate to dissolve the precipitated crystallization target; observing a condition of last remaining precipitate as a second precipitation threshold; determining a hysteresis between the first and second precipitation thresholds. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the hysteresis indicates a metastable region of phase space for the crystallization target, the method further comprising reproducing conditions in the metastable region. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising reproducing a condition in the metastable region to create crystals of the crystallization target. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the condition in the metastable region is reproduced by mixing the crystallization target with a precipitant in a microfluidic device. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the condition in the metastable region is reproduced by performing at least one of a microbatch and a hanging drop crystallization experiment. 19. A crystallization method comprising: empirically determining a solubility curve for a crystallization target mixed with a precipitant utilizing a microfluidic device; and mixing the crystallization target with the precipitant at a ratio that places a final concentration of the crystallization target and the precipitant on a boundary of the solubility curve. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the solubility curve is empirically determined by a change in transmission of light through the microfluidic device. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising: transmitting light through the microfluidic device; detecting an intensity of the transmitted light received by a plurality of pixels; calculating a standard deviation of the pixels; and comparing the standard deviation to a background value recorded in an absence of the crystallization target. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein an approximate linear dependence of pixel standard deviation on crystallization target concentration indicates precipitation of the crystallization target. 23. The method of claim 19 wherein the solubility curve is empirically determined by mixing the crystallization target with a precipitant in a rotary flow microfluidic device. 24. The method of claim 19 further comprising designing an optimal screen for the crystallization target based upon the empirically determined solubility curve. 25. The method of claim 24 further comprising mixing the crystallization target with the precipitant so that a final condition of the optimal screen is located on a boundary of the solubility curve. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein the final condition is achieved by mixing the crystallization target with the precipitant in a microfluidic device. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein a combined volume of crystallization target and the precipitant of about 1 .mu.L or less is mixed to achieve the final condition. 28. The method of claim 25 wherein the final condition is achieved by performing at least one of a microbatch and a hanging drop crystallization experiment. 29. The method of claim 19 wherein a combined volume of crystallization target and the precipitant of about 1 .mu.L or less is mixed to achieve the final condition. 30. The method of claim 19 wherein a volume of crystallization target of between about 100 nL or less is mixed with the precipitant to achieve the final concentration. 