A filling apparatus for filling a microplate. The microplate having a plurality of wells each sized to receive an assay. The filling apparatus can comprise an assay input layer having a first surface and an opposing second surface. The assay input layer can comprise an assay input port extending from the first surface to the second surface, a venting manifold formed in the second surface, and a vent hole in fluid communication with the venting manifold and atmosphere. An output layer can comprise a plurality of staging capillaries each having an inlet and an outlet. A venting layer can be disposed between the assay input layer and the output layer. The venting layer can comprise a plurality of microfluidic channels, a flow aperture being in fluid communication with the assay input port and the plurality of microfluidic channels, and a plurality of vent apertures each in fluid communication with at least one of the plurality of staging capillaries. Two or more of the plurality of vent apertures can be in fluid communication with the venting manifold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A filling apparatus for filling a microplate, said microplate having a plurality of wells, each of said plurality of wells being sized to receive an assay therein, said filling apparatus comprising: a first layer having a first surface and an opposing second surface, said first layer further having an assay input port for receiving the assay extending from said first surface to said second surface, a venting manifold formed in said second surface, and a vent hole in fluid communication with said venting manifold and atmosphere, said venting manifold and said vent hole being distinct from said assay input port; a second layer having a plurality of staging capillaries, each of said plurality of staging capillaries having an inlet and an outlet and being sized to receive the assay, said second layer having a plurality of microfluidic channels formed therein, at least one of said plurality of microfluidic channels being in fluid communication with said inlets of at least a pair of said plurality of staging capillaries; and a third layer disposed between said first layer and said second layer, said third layer further having a flow aperture being in fluid communication with said assay input port and said plurality of microfluidic channels, said third layer further having a plurality of vent apertures each in fluid communication with at least one of said plurality of staging capillaries, two or more of said plurality of vent apertures being in fluid communication with said venting manifold and distinct from said plurality of staging capillaries and said plurality of microfluidic channels. 2. The filling apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a surface tension relief post extending from said second layer, said surface tension relief post being generally aligned with said flow aperture of said third layer, said surface tension relief post engagable with the assay in at least one of said assay input port and said flow aperture. 3. The filling apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a protrusion formed about said outlet of at least one of said plurality of staging capillaries. 4. The filling apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a spacer extending about a least a portion of said second layer, said spacer engagable with the microplate to provide a predetermined spacing therewith. 5. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of vent apertures is coaxially aligned with one of said plurality of staging capillaries. 6. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of vent apertures is generally aligned between two of said plurality of staging capillaries. 7. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of vent apertures is circular in cross-section. 8. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of vent apertures is oblong in cross-section. 9. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of staging capillaries is sized relative to said plurality of microfluidic channels and said assay input port to provide sufficient capillary force to draw a predetermined volume of the assay therein. 10. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of staging capillaries is sized relative to said plurality of microfluidic channels and said assay input port to provide sufficient capillary force to draw a predetermined volume of the assay therein and permit release of the assay from each of said plurality of staging capillaries in response to an applied centripetal force. 11. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said third layer is made of a double-stick adhesive. 12. A filling apparatus for filling a microplate, said microplate having a plurality of wells, each of said plurality of wells being sized to receive an assay therein, said filling apparatus comprising: an assay input layer having a first surface and an opposing second surface, said assay input layer further having an assay input port extending from said first surface to said second surface, a venting manifold formed in said second surface, and a vent hole in fluid communication with said venting manifold and atmosphere, said venting manifold and said vent hole being distinct from said assay input port; an output layer having a plurality of staging capillaries, each of said plurality of staging capillaries having an inlet and an outlet; and a venting layer disposed between said assay input layer and said output layer, said venting layer having a plurality of microfluidic channels formed therein, at least one of said plurality of microfluidic channels being in fluid communication with said inlets of at least a pair of said plurality of staging capillaries, said venting layer further having a flow aperture being in fluid communication with said assay input port and said plurality of microfluidic channels, said venting layer further having a plurality of vent apertures each in fluid communication with at least one of said plurality of staging capillaries, said plurality of vent apertures being distinct from said flow aperture. 13. The filling apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising: a surface tension relief post extending from said output layer, said surface tension relief post being generally aligned with said flow aperture of said venting layer, said surface tension relief post engagable with the assay in at least one of said assay input port and said flow aperture. 14. The filling apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising: a protrusion formed said outlet of at least one of said plurality of staging capillaries. 15. The filling apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising: a spacer extending a least a portion of said output layer, said spacer engagable with the microplate to provide a predetermined spacing therewith. 16. The filling apparatus according to claim 12 wherein each of said plurality of vent apertures is coaxially aligned with one of said plurality of staging capillaries. 17. The filling apparatus according to claim 12 wherein each of said plurality of vent apertures is generally aligned between two of said plurality of staging capillaries. 18. The filling apparatus according to claim 12 wherein each of said plurality of vent apertures is circular in cross-section. 19. The filling apparatus according to claim 12 wherein each of said plurality of vent apertures is oblong in cross-section. 20. The filling apparatus according to claim 12 wherein each of said plurality of staging capillaries is sized relative to said plurality of microfluidic channels and said assay input port to provide sufficient capillary force to draw a predetermined volume of the assay therein. 21. The filling apparatus according to claim 12 wherein each of said plurality of staging capillaries is sized relative to said plurality of microfluidic channels and said assay input port to provide sufficient capillary force to draw a predetermined volume of the assay therein and permit release of the assay from each of said plurality of staging capillaries in response to an applied centripetal force. 