A method and apparatus for retrieving, accessing, and storing medical data relating to a patient during a medical procedure. The invention provides a single interface to many disparate forms of medical data, which is accessible over a local area network; wide area network, direct connection, or combinations thereof. In one embodiment, an operating room control system for use during a medical procedure on a patient includes an input device, a display device, and a controller that is coupled to the input device and the display device. The controller receives one or more user inputs, transmits a command to a server located outside of the operating room to retrieve medical data, receives the medical data from the server, and displays the medical data on the display device. Medical data can be captured by the controller using, for example, a camera and a video/image capture board, keyboard, and microphone during surgery or examination of the patient. The captured medical data can be stored on one or more remote servers as part of the patient records.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An operating room master controller for use in treating a patient with a plurality of operating room devices, a network, and a voice input device during a medical procedure in an operating room, the operating room master controller comprising: a voice data input, coupled to the voice input device, operable to receive a verbal data retrieval command, having an associated patient record identifier, to retrieve patient information associated with the patient record identifier; an output for transmitting the verbal data retrieval command to a slave controller coupled to the network; and a processor coupling the voice data input to the output so that the verbal data retrieval command is transmitted to the slave controller without decoding the verbal data retrieval command, the processor receiving the patient information from the network through the slave controller. 2. The operating room master controller of claim 1, further comprising a display output coupled to the processor, wherein the patient information includes one or more of the following: an MRI, CT, X-ray, still-frame video, moving video, ultrasound image, patient records, patient notes, or patient schedule, and the patient information is transmitted to the display output in a format suitable for generating a display of the patient information on a display device. 3. The operating room master controller of claim 1, wherein the network includes one or more of the following: a local area network, wide area network, Internet, or Intranet. 4. The operating room master controller of claim 2, wherein the operating room master controller includes a memory containing an application program, and the processor executes the application program to cause the patient information to be displayed on the display device in a web browsable format. 5. The operating room master controller of claim 1 wherein the processor is configured to capture one or more units of patient data from a first server of the network and is configured to transmit to the network a request to a second server to store the one or more units of patient data. 6. The operating room master controller of claim 5 wherein the one or more units of patient data include one or more of the following: an image captured by an image capturing device coupled to the operating room master controller, a moving video captured by the image capturing device, or notes captured using the input device regarding the patient. 7. An operating room slave controller for use in an operating room with a master controller and at least one operating room device or network during a medical procedure on a patient, the slave controller comprising: a master/slave communication port; at least one command port configured to be coupled to a network or operating room device; a memory retrievably storing a command lexicon and slave control logic; and a processor coupling the master/slave communication port to the at least one command port, the processor transmitting a command from the command port in response to a signal from the master/slave communication port, the processor selecting the command using the command lexicon. 8. The operating room slave controller of claim 7, wherein the memory further stores user interface information, and wherein the controller further comprises a display output configured for coupling to a display device, wherein the user interface information includes Graphical User Interface (GUI) information to be transmitted to the display output, and wherein the processor is configured to receive voice command signals from the master/slave communication port in response to a GUI command. 9. The operating room slave controller of claim 8, wherein the memory further stores driver information from a configuration or device resource file associated with a coupled at least one operating room device or network, the driver information including at least one of: available voice commands, a menu structure to be displayed on the display, or timing requirements. 10. The operating room slave controller of claim 7, wherein at least one of the master/slave communication port and the at least one command port includes an electromagnetic or RF link. 11. A system comprising: an image-acquiring device; a display; and a controller coupled to the image-acquiring device and coupled to a computer network, the controller operable to selectively provide an image from the image-acquiring device to the display, the controller including an input section operable to receive selection commands and control commands from a human operator, wherein: the controller is operable to provide a first control signal to the image-acquiring device only if the controller identifies no intervening selection command between a first control command and a first selection command, and the controller is operable to provide a second control signal to the computer network only if the controller identifies no intervening selection command between a second control command and a second selection command. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein: the controller is operable to retrieve patient data from the computer network and selectively provide the patient data to the display. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein: the patient data includes one of an x-ray, an MRI, an angiograph, a CAT scan, a video, an ultrasound image, or patient records. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein: the computer network includes one of a local area network, a wide area network, or a direct connection. 15. The system of claim 11, further comprising: a medical device coupled to the controller, wherein the controller is operable to provide a third control signal to the medical device only if the controller identifies no intervening selection command between a third control command and a third selection command. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein: the input section includes a voice-control input section. 17. An operating room master controller for use in treating a patient with a plurality of operating room devices and a voice input device during a medical procedure in an operating room, the operating room master controller comprising: a voice data input coupled to the voice input device for receiving a verbal device command having an associated device selection command; an output for transmitting the verbal device command to a slave controller associated with an operating room device identified by the device selection command; and a processor coupling the voice data input to the output so that the verbal device command is transmitted to the slave controller without decoding the verbal device command. 18. An operating room master controller comprising: an input that receives a patient information retrieval verbal command; and a processor coupled to the input and to a slave controller, wherein the slave controller is coupled to a network of devices; wherein the processor outputs the received patient information retrieval command to the slave controller without decoding the patient information retrieval command; wherein the slave controller decodes the received patient information retrieval verbal command and in response retrieves the patient information from one of the network devices; and wherein the slave controller transmits the retrieved patient information to the processor. 19. The master controller of claim 18: wherein the processor is coupled to a plurality of slave controllers; wherein the input receives a device selection verbal command; and wherein the device selection verbal command identifies a particular slave controller to receive the patient information retrieval verbal command. 20. The master controller of claim 18: wherein the input receives a device selection verbal command; and wherein the device selection verbal command identifies the device from which the patient information is to be retrieved. 