Method and apparatus for controlling the operation of an emotion synthesizing device, notably of the type where the emotion is conveyed by a sound, having at least one input parameter whose value is used to set a type of emotion to be conveyed, by making at least one parameter a variable parameter over a determined control range, thereby to confer a variability in an amount of the type of emotion to be conveyed. The variable parameter can be made variable according to a variation model over the control range, the model relating a quantity of emotion control variable to the variable parameter, whereby said control variable is used to variably establish a value of said variable parameter. Preferably the variation obeys a linear model, the variable parameter being made to vary linearly with a variation in a quantity of emotion control variable.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of controlling an operation of an emotion synthesizing device having a plurality of input speech prosodical parameters whose values VPi are used to set a type and intensity of emotion to be conveyed, comprising: selecting a value of an emotion control variable .delta. within a predetermined interval; and determining the corresponding values VPi of each of the plurality of input parameters in accordance with the following formula: VPi=Ai+.delta.Bi, wherein Ai and Bi are constant values defining a control range for the corresponding input parameter, thereby to confer a variability in the intensity of said type of emotion to be conveyed; and each VPi is varied only by varying .delta.. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising synthesizing the emotion to be conveyed by sound. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein Ai is a value inside said control range, whereby the value of the emotion control variable .delta. is variable in the predetermined interval, which contains the value zero. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein Ai is substantially the mid value of said control range, and the value of the emotion control variable .delta. is variable in the predetermined interval, whose mid value is zero. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein said value of the emotion control variable is variable in the predetermined interval, which is -1 to +1. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein Bi is determined by: Bi=(Eimax-Ai), or by Bi=(Eimin+Ai), wherein: Eimax is a value of an input parameter for producing the maximum quantity of said type of emotion to be conveyed in said control range, and Eimin is a value of an input parameter for producing the minimum quantity of said type of emotion to be conveyed in said control range. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein Ai is equal to a standard parameter value originally specified to set a type of emotion to be conveyed. 8. The method according to claim 6, wherein said value Eimax and said value Eimin are determined experimentally by varying the standard parameter value and by determining a maximum variation in the standard parameter value in an increasing or decreasing direction that yields a desired limit to the intensity of emotion to be conferred by said control range. 9. An apparatus for controlling an operation of an emotion synthesising system, the emotion synthesizing system having a plurality of input speech prosodical parameters whose values VPi are used to set a type and intensity of emotion to be conveyed, the apparatus comprising: means for selecting a value of an emotion control variable .delta. within a predetermined interval; variation means for determining the corresponding values VPi of each of said plurality of input parameters in accordance with the following formula: VPi=Ai+.delta.Bi, wherein Ai and Bi are constant values defining a control range for the corresponding input parameter, thereby to confer a variability in the intensity of said type of emotion to be conveyed; and each VPi is varied only by varying .delta.. 10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said value of the emotion control variable .delta. is variable in the predetermined interval, which contains the value zero. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said value of the emotion control variable is variable in the predetermined interval, which is -1 to +1. 12. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said variation means causes said plurality of input parameters (VPi) to vary in response to the value of the emotion control variable according to one of the following formulas: VPi=Emir+.delta..(Eimax-Emir), or VPi=Emir+.delta..(Eimin+Emr) wherein Emir is substantially the mid value of a control range, preferably equal to a standard parameter value originally specified to set a type of emotion to be conveyed, Eimax is a value of an input parameter for producing a maximum amount of said type of emotion to be conveyed in said control range, and Eimin is a value of an input parameter for producing a minimum amount of said type of emotion to be conveyed in said control range. 13. A method of using the apparatus according to claim 9 to adjust a quantity of emotion in a device for synthesising an emotion conveyed by sound. 14. A system comprising an emotion synthesis device having a plurality of inputs for receiving a corresponding plurality of parameters whose values are used to set a type and intensity of emotion to be conveyed; and an apparatus according to claim 9 operatively connected to deliver variables to said plurality of inputs, thereby to confer a variability in the intensity of a said type of emotion to be conveyed. 15. A computer readable medium having embedded therein a computer program, the computer program providing computer executable instructions, which, when loaded onto a data processor, causes the data processor to perform the method recited in claim 1. 