A modular printhead is provided for an inkjet printer. The printhead includes an elongate mounting member defining a channel. A plurality of elongate printhead modules is arranged end to end within the channel. Each printhead module has complementary nesting formations at either end so that adjacent printhead modules are nested together. Each printhead module includes an elongate printhead integrated circuit (IC) which is configured to print ink, and is aligned obliquely with respect to the mounting member so that adjacent printhead ICs overlap along the mounting member and provide for continuity of printing on print media which passes across the printhead.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A modular printhead for an inkjet printer, the printhead comprising: an elongate mounting member defining a channel; a plurality of elongate printhead modules arranged end to end within the channel, each printhead module having complementary nesting formations at either end so that adjacent printhead modules are nested together, each printhead module comprising an elongate printhead integrated circuit (IC) which is configured to print ink and is aligned obliquely with respect to the mounting member so that adjacent printhead IC's overlap along the mounting member and provide for continuity of printing on print media which passes across the printhead. 2. A modular printhead as claimed in claim 1, wherein each printhead module is rotationally symmetric. 3. A modular printhead as claimed in claim 1, wherein the complementary formations define a stepped end region of the printhead modules. 4. A modular printhead as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead ICs are parallel. 5. A modular printhead as claimed in claim 1, wherein the mounting member defines a plurality of sets of locating formations with each set being configured to locate a respective printhead module in the channel. 6. A modular printhead as claimed in claim 5, wherein the locating formations of each set extend into the channel and can be engaged with complementary formations of a corresponding printhead module to secure the printhead module in the channel. 7. A modular printhead as claimed in claim 1, wherein each printhead module comprises a first molding, and a second molding arranged on the first molding. 8. A modular printhead as claimed in claim 7, wherein one of the moldings defines a plurality of parallel ribs which extend transversely with respect to the printhead module and carry a plurality of conductive ribs which are electrically coupled to the printhead IC. 