A combination of a dry oxidizing, wet etching, and wet cleaning processes are used to remove particle defects from a wafer after ion implantation, as part of a wafer bonding process to fabricate a SOI wafer. The particle defects on the topside and the backside of the wafer are oxidized, in a dry strip chamber, with an energized gas. In a wet clean chamber, the backside of the wafer is treated with an etchant solution to remove completely or partially a thermal silicon oxide layer, followed by exposure of the topside and the backside to a cleaning solution. The cleaning solution contains ammonium hydroxide, hydrogen peroxide, DI water, and optionally a chelating agent, and a surfactant. The wet clean chamber is integrated with the dry strip chamber and contained in a single wafer processing system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method to process a wafer after ion implantation, the method comprising: oxidizing, in a dry strip chamber, elastomeric particle defects on a topside and a backside of the wafer with an energized gas; rinsing, in a wet clean chamber integrated with the dry strip chamber and contained in a single wafer processing system, the topside with DI water; etching, in the wet clean chamber, the backside with a first etchant solution to remove a silicon oxide layer; exposing, in the wet clean chamber, the topside and the backside with a cleaning solution comprising ammonium hydroxide, hydrogen peroxide, and DI water; rinsing the wafer with DI water; and drying the wafer. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein oxidizing further comprises flowing an energized, oxygen-based reactive species to the topside and backside from about 10 seconds to about 500 seconds. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein etching further comprises dispensing the etchant solution simultaneously with the DI water to the topside. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein exposing further comprises dispensing the cleaning solution after rinsing the topside with DI water and etching the backside with the etchant solution. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the etchant solution comprises between about 0.1% to about 40% hydrofluoric acid by weight. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the exposing the backside with the etchant solution further comprises dispensing the hydrofluoric acid between about 10 seconds to about 60 seconds. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising repeating an etchant operation to the backside of the wafer. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein repeating further comprises dispensing an etchant solution having a lower concentration relative to the etchant solution in a first operation. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising transferring the wafer from the dry strip chamber to the wet clean chamber with a wafer handling device disposed within the single wafer processing system. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein exposing further comprises agitating the topside and backside with megasonic energy between about 10 W to about 1000 W. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising, etching, in the wet clean chamber, the topside and the backside with a second etchant solution, the second etchant solution having a lower concentration relative to the first etchant solution. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the cleaning solution further comprises a chelating agent and a surfactant. 13. A method to clean a wafer after ion implantation, the method comprising: inserting the wafer within a dry strip chamber to oxidize particle defects on a topside and a backside of the wafer; transferring the wafer from the dry strip chamber to a wet clean chamber integrated in a wafer processing system, the wet clean chamber to rinse the topside with DI water and to expose the backside with a first etchant solution; maintaining the wafer in the wet clean chamber to expose the topside and backside with a cleaning solution; and repeating a rinse to the topside with DI water and an exposure to the backside with a second etchant solution. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein transferring the wafer from the dry strip chamber to the first wet clean chamber further comprises transporting the wafer with a wafer handling device disposed within the single wafer processing system. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein inserting further comprises oxidizing the topside and the backside simultaneously with an oxygen-containing energized gas that reacts with elastomeric particle defects. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein oxidizing further comprises extending a plurality of lift pins from a wafer support pedestal to form reaction volumes near the backside and the topside for simultaneous processing in the dry strip chamber. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein transferring the wafer to the first wet clean chamber further comprises applying a megasonic energy between about 10 W to about 1000 W to agitate the topside and the backside of the wafer. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein the cleaning solution comprises ammonium hydroxide, hydrogen peroxide, DI water, a chelating agent, and a surfactant. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein oxidizing further comprises flowing the energized gas to the topside and the backside between about 10 seconds to about 500 seconds. 20. The method of claim 13, wherein the first etchant solution comprises a solution of about 2.5% weight hydrofluoric acid. 21. The method of claim 13, wherein the second etchant solution comprises a solution of about 0.15% weight hydrofluoric acid. 