Self-contained rotary actuator provides motive power in automated mechanical systems and includes cross-roller bearing as a structural joint. Outer attachment shell rigidly interfaces the mechanical system and contains motor stator and internal bull gear. Internal bull gear, with internal gear teeth, interfaces cross-roller bearing, and provides stiffness. Output attachment plate mechanism includes internal ring gear and supports drive shaft bearings. Internal ring gear, with internal gear teeth, rigidly interfaces output attachment plate. Drive shaft holds prime mover rotor and eccentric and associates output attachment plate via the drive shaft bearings. Gear train includes circular arc, external teeth meshing gear for meshing with internal teeth of internal bull and internal ring gears and walks minimal external gear teeth per prime mover rotor rotation. Cross-roller bearing, outer attachment shell, drive shaft, and meshing gear train provide a self-contained, integrated, actuation torque transmitting force from the prime mover along shortest-possible transmission path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self-contained integrated actuator combining a prime mover and gear train for yielding a compact rotary actuation torque within a larger system, comprising: a cross-roller bearing for operating as a structural joint in the larger system of which said self-contained integrated actuator is a part; an outer attachment shell for rigidly interfacing the larger system and containing a motor stator and an internal bull gear, said motor stator for generating a controllable electromagnetic field, and said internal bull gear for interfacing said cross-roller bearing and providing stiffness for said self-contained integrated actuator, and further comprising a plurality of internal gear teeth; an output attachment plate for containing an internal ring gear and supporting a plurality of drive shaft bearings, said internal ring gear for rigidly interfacing said output attachment plate and further comprising a plurality of internal gear teeth, said cross-roller bearing further for positioning said output attachment plate within said outer attachment shell; a drive shaft for holding a prime mover rotor and an eccentric and associating with said output attachment plate via said plurality of drive shaft bearings, said prime mover rotor for rotating in response to said controllable electromagnetic field and said eccentric; said gear train associated with said eccentric and comprising said meshing gear, wherein said meshing gear further includes a plurality of external gear teeth, said external gear teeth comprising circular arc surfaces for meshing with said plurality of internal gear teeth of said internal bull gear and said plurality of internal gear teeth of said internal ring gear, said gear train for walking a minimal number of said plurality of external gear teeth for each rotation of said prime mover rotor, said cross-roller bearing, said outer attachment shell, said drive shaft, and said meshing gear train cooperating for providing a self-contained integrated actuation torque transmitting force from said prime mover through said gear train along a shortest-possible transmission path. 2. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said cross-roller bearing, said outer attachment shell, said drive shaft, said meshing gear train, and said prime mover associate in the form of a pancake-shaped self-contained integrated actuator having a diameter at least equal to approximately the length of said cylindrical self-contained integrated actuator. 3. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said cross-roller bearing, said outer attachment shell, said drive shaft, said meshing gear train, and said prime mover associate in the form of a cylindrical self-contained integrated actuator having a length at least equal to approximately the diameter of said cylindrical self-contained integrated actuator. 4. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said internal bull gear, said internal ring gear, and said meshing gear form a hypocyclic gear train. 5. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said meshing gear further comprises a wobble gear for forming a hypocyclic gear train. 6. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said meshing gear comprises a planet gear for forming an epicyclic gear train. 7. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said meshing gear comprises a fixed axis gear for forming a star-compound gear train. 8. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said self-contained integrated actuator is formed to be of a size specified by a predetermined set of standardized dimensions. 9. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said self-contained integrated actuator is formed to be of a size specified by a predetermined set of standardized dimensions, said standardized dimensions according with predetermined certification requirements for use of said self-contained integrated actuator. 10. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said self-contained integrated actuator is formed to be of a size specified by a predetermined set of standardized dimensions, said standardized dimensions according with predetermined certification requirements for defining a minimal number of standardized dimensions for a maximal variety of uses of said self-contained integrated actuator. 11. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said self-contained integrated actuator is formed to be of a size specified by a predetermined set of standardized dimensions, said standardized dimensions according with predetermined certification requirements for defining a minimal number of standardized dimensions for a maximal variety of uses of said self-contained integrated actuator, thereby minimized associated manufacturing and operational costs for said self-contained integrated actuator. 12. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said self-contained integrated actuator is formed to be of a size specified by a predetermined set of standardized dimensions, said standardized dimensions according with predetermined certification requirements for defining a minimal number of standardized dimensions for a maximal variety of uses of said self-contained integrated actuator, thereby facilitating upgrading and downgrading functions in the application and operation of said self-contained integrated actuator. 13. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said internal gear teeth of said internal bull gear, said internal gear teeth of said internal ring gear, and said external gear teeth of said meshing gear associate with at least a 75-to-1 gear reduction ration. 14. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a quick-change interface for rapid replacement of said self-contained integrated actuator. 15. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a quick-change interface for rapid replacement of said self-contained integrated actuator, wherein said quick-change interface has the form of a predetermined subset of a plurality of predetermined quick-change interface forms, thereby permitting a plurality of accurately determined assembly levels. 16. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a quick-change interface for rapid replacement of said self-contained integrated actuator, said quick-change interface having a resistive force in up to six directions, at least a subset of said up to six approximately orthogonal directions demonstrating a predetermined degree of structural stiffness and allowing rapid replacement of said self-contained integrated actuator. 17. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a quick-change interface for rapid replacement of said self-contained integrated actuator, wherein said quick-change interface is positioned immediately proximate to said cross-roller bearing for providing a minimal force path from said prime mover through said gear train to said quick-change interface. 18. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a quick-change interface for rapid replacement of said self-contained integrated actuator, wherein said quick-change interface is positioned immediately proximate to said cross-roller bearing for providing a minimal force path from said prime mover through said gear train to said quick-change interface for reducing sensitivity of said self-contained integrated actuator to temperature variation, thereby permitting said self-contained integrated actuator to operate as a machine joint. 19. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a quick-change interface for rapid replacement of said self-contained integrated actuator, wherein said quick-change interface is positioned immediately proximate to said cross-roller bearing for providing a minimal force path from said prime mover through said gear train to said quick-change interface for reducing stack-up tolerances associated with said self-contained integrated actuator, thereby permitting said self-contained integrated actuator to operate as a machine joint. 20. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a quick-change interface for rapid replacement of said self-contained integrated actuator, wherein said quick-change interface is positioned immediately proximate to said cross-roller bearing for providing a minimal force path from said prime mover through said gear train to said quick-change interface for increasing structural stiffness of said self-contained integrated actuator to temperature variation, thereby permitting said self-contained integrated actuator to operate as a machine joint. 21. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said prime mover operates at a maximal power density frequency ranging up to approximately 30,000 revolutions per minute. 22. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said gear train operates at reduction rates ranging between approximately 75-to-1 and 5,000-to-1. 23. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said gear train further comprises a hypocyclic gear train for operating at reduction rates ranging between approximately 75-to-1 and 5,000-to-1. 24. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said gear train further comprises a star-compound gear train for operating at reduction rates ranging between approximately 5-to-1 and 25-to-1. 25. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said gear train further comprises an epicyclic gear train for operating at reduction rates ranging between approximately 5-to-1 and 75-to-1. 26. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said output attachment plate provides an output torque for maximal torque density ranging from approximately 400 to 600 inch-pounds per pound. 27. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said gear train further comprises a two-stage configuration, said two-stage configuration further comprising a star compound gear train and an epicyclic gear train configuration. 28. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said gear train further comprises a two-stage configuration, said two-stage configuration further comprising a star compound gear train and either an epicyclic gear train or a hypocyclic gear train. 29. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said internal gear teeth of said internal bull gear, said internal gear teeth of said internal ring gear, and said external gear teeth of said meshing gear mesh with a pressure angle of less than approximately nine degrees, thereby permitting the engagement of at least five of said internal gear teeth under a full load condition for distributing the percent load per tooth as loading increases. 30. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said self-contained integrated actuator consists essentially of said cross-roller bearing, said outer attachment shell, said drive shaft, said single-stage meshing gear, and said prime mover for tolerance insensitivity of said self-contained integrated actuator. 31. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said self-contained integrated actuator consists essentially of said cross-roller bearing, said outer attachment shell, said drive shaft, said single-stage meshing gear, and said prime mover for temperature insensitivity of said self-contained integrated actuator. 32. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said self-contained integrated actuator consists of elements from the group consisting essentially of said cross-roller bearing, said outer attachment shell, said drive shaft, said single-stage meshing gear, and said prime mover for increased endurance of said self-contained integrated actuator. 33. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a preloading force for application to said internal bull gear, said internal ring gear, and said wobble gear for substantially eliminating backlash in the operation of said self-contained integrated actuator, said preloading force formed at least in part from either a plurality of deformable teeth or a plurality of compliant bearings positioned between an eccentric and said wobble gear, said preloading force arising as said mesh closes in a cusp motion perpendicular to a pitch circle associated with said wobble gear. 34. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a preloading force for application to said internal bull gear, said internal ring gear, and said wobble gear for substantially eliminating backlash in the operation of said self-contained integrated actuator, said preloading force derived from interfacing the external gear teeth, said plurality of internal gear teeth of said internal bull gear and said plurality of internal gear teeth of said internal ring gear in a cusp motion perpendicular to said meshing gear. 35. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising means for load sharing among a plurality of said internal teeth of said internal bull gear, a plurality of said internal teeth of said internal ring gear, and a plurality of said external teeth of said meshing gear for substantially eliminating lost motion in the operation of said self-contained integrated actuator. 36. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising concave-convex tooth contact among a plurality of said internal teeth of said internal bull gear, a plurality of said internal teeth of said internal ring gear, and a plurality of said external teeth of said meshing gear for substantially eliminating lost motion in the operation of said self-contained integrated actuator. 37. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, wherein said internal teeth of said internal bull gear, said internal teeth of said internal ring gear, and said external teeth of said meshing gear form a force distribution characteristic in the form of a symmetric parabola. 38. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of wedge clamps on predetermined sides of said self-contained integrated actuator for attaching neighboring links to said self-contained integrated actuator, each of said wedge clamps comprising: two semi-circular portions for resisting primary opening forces applying to each of said wedge clamps; a band clamp for securing each of said wedge clamps into a predetermined position; and a plurality of attachments immediately proximate to said cross-roller bearing. 39. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of operational sensors for sensing operational characteristics of elements from the group consisting essentially of said cross-roller bearing, said outer attachment shell, said drive shaft, said meshing gear train, and said prime mover. 40. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of operational sensors for sensing operational characteristics of elements from the group consisting essentially of said cross-roller bearing, said outer attachment shell, said drive shaft, said meshing gear train, and said prime mover, said plurality of operational sensors for maintaining an optimal operational envelope for said self-contained integrated actuator. 41. The self-contained integrated actuator of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of operational sensors for sensing operational characteristics of elements from the group consisting essentially of said cross-roller bearing, said outer attachment shell, said drive shaft, said meshing gear train, and said prime mover said plurality of operational sensors for maintaining an optimal operational maintenance schedule for said self-contained integrated actuator. 42. A mechanical system for providing a motive force, at least a portion of which motive force comprises an electro-mechanically controllable force deriving from a self-contained integrated actuator, said self-contained integrated actuator combining a prime mover and gear train for yielding a compact rotary actuation torque within a larger system and comprising: a cross-roller bearing for operating as a structural joint in the larger system of which said self-contained integrated actuator is a part; an outer attachment shell for rigidly interfacing the larger system and containing a motor stator and an internal bull gear, said motor stator for generating a controllable electromagnetic field, and said internal bull gear for interfacing said cross-roller bearing and providing stiffness for said self-contained integrated actuator, and further comprising a plurality of internal gear teeth; an output attachment plate for containing an internal ring gear and supporting a plurality of drive shaft bearings, said internal ring gear for rigidly interfacing said output attachment plate and further comprising a plurality of internal gear teeth, said cross-roller bearing further for positioning said output attachment plate within said outer attachment shell; a drive shaft for holding a prime mover rotor and an eccentric and associating with said output attachment plate via said plurality of drive shaft bearings, said prime mover rotor for rotating in response to said controllable electromagnetic field and said eccentric; a gear train associated with said eccentric and comprising said meshing gear, wherein said meshing gear further comprises a plurality of external gear teeth, said external gear teeth comprising circular arc surfaces for meshing with said plurality of internal gear teeth of said internal bull gear and said plurality of internal gear teeth of said internal ring gear, said gear train for walking a minimal number of said plurality of external gear teeth for each rotation of said prime mover rotor, said cross-roller bearing, said outer attachment shell, said drive shaft, and said meshing gear train cooperating for providing a self-contained integrated actuation torque transmitting force from said prime mover through said gear train along a shortest-possible transmission path. 43. The mechanical system of claim 42, wherein said mechanical system comprises a space-based, remotely controlled system. 44. The mechanical system of claim 42, wherein said mechanical system comprises a truck. 45. The mechanical system of claim 42, wherein said mechanical system comprises a wind turbine. 46. The mechanical system of claim 42, wherein said mechanical system comprises an armored tank. 47. The mechanical system of claim 42, wherein said mechanical system comprises a manufacturing robotic system. 