Integrated systems and methods for diversity generation and screening are provided. The systems use common fluid and array handling components to provide nucleic acid diversification, transcription, translation, product screening and subsequent diversification reactions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated system for shuffling nucleic acids, said system comprising: one or more master multiwell plates; one or more copy multiwell plates; a nucleic acid shuffling module that accepts input nucleic acids and manipulates the input nucleic acids to produce shuffled nucleic acids, wherein the nucleic acid shuffling module comprises a thermocycler operably coupled to a computer having an instruction set for calculating an amount of uracil and an amount of thymidine for use in the thermocycler, wherein the nucleic acid shuffling module dispenses aliquots of the shuffled nucleic acids produced therein into the wells of the master multiwell plate(s), wherein the nucleic acid shuffling module comprises an array copy system that transfers aliquots from the wells of the master multiwell plate(s) to the wells of the copy multiwell plate(s), wherein the array copy system transfers aliquots from the wells of the master multiwell plate to the wells of one or more copy multiwell plates; a library quality module operably coupled to the nucleic acid shuffling module, wherein the library quality module optionally transfers aliquots from the wells of the master or copy multiwell plate(s) into one or more daughter multiwell plate(s); wherein the library quality module assesses the degree of diversity of a plurality of pools of shuffled nucleic acids by performing a crossover assessment on the plurality of pools of shuffled nucleic acids in the wells of the copy or daughter multiwell plate(s); a dilution module operably coupled to the library quality module for diluting the shuffled nucleic acids to a desired concentration per well of the copy or daughter multiwell plate(s); and a protein expression module operably coupled to the dilution module. 2. The integrated system of claim 1, further comprising an assay module operably coupled to the protein expression module. 3. The integrated system of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid shuffling module comprises a DNA fragmentation module. 4. The integrated system of claim 1, further comprising a bar-code based sample tracking module. 5. The integrated system of claim 1, wherein the library quality module ranks each well based on its level of diversity. 6. The integrated system of claim 1, wherein the library quality module further comprises a library quality module detection system for detecting labels associated with the shuffled nucleic acids. 7. The integrated system of claim 6, wherein the library quality module detector is a fluorescence plate reader. 8. The integrated system of claim 1, further comprising a product quantification module. 