A drive motor for driving a tool such as a grinding tool through a right angle drive has a rotatable head mounted on the housing and having a detent on the rotatable head for engaging a fixed component of the angled drive coupling so as to hold the axis of the angled drive coupling at a required angle around the axis of the housing and for adjusting the angle without removal of the right angle drive from the motor. The rotatable head includes an annular disk which surrounds the axis of the motor and has a central hole through which the driven member extends into the chuck. The disk is driven by an adjustment motor having a sprocket which engages gear teeth on the exterior of the disk and has a series of holes through the disk member at angularly spaced locations around the axis so that a locking pin driven by a locking pin motor engages into a selected one of the holes to lock the head at the required angle when rotated to the required angle by the adjustment motor.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A drive motor for driving a driven element, the motor comprising: a motor housing having a mounting connection for attachment of the housing to a support; a rotor within the housing mounted for driven rotation about a longitudinal axis of the housing; a chuck on the rotor for attachment of the rotor to the driven element for driving rotation of the driven element around the axis; a rotatable head mounted on the housing and having a detent on the rotatable head for engaging a component of the driven element so as to hold the component of the driven element at a required angle around the axis of the housing and for adjusting the angle; and an adjustment motor mounted on the housing for driving adjustment rotation of the rotatable head around the axis so as to effect adjustment of the required angle without removal of the driven element from the chuck. 2. The drive motor according to claim 1 wherein the rotatable head includes a series of angularly spaced receptacles and wherein there is provided a locking pin operable to engage into a selected one of the receptacles to lock the head at the required angle when rotated to the required angle by the adjustment motor. 3. The drive motor according to claim 2 wherein the locking pin is retractable by a pin retraction motor. 4. The drive motor according to claim 1 wherein the rotatable head includes an annular disk member which surrounds the axis of the motor and through which the driven member extends into the chuck. 5. The drive motor according to claim 2 wherein the rotatable head includes an annular disk member which surrounds the axis of the motor and has a central hole through which the driven member extends into the chuck and wherein the receptacles are defined by a series of holes through the disk member at angularly spaced locations around the axis. 6. The drive motor according to claim 4 wherein the adjustment motor includes a sprocket arranged to drive the disk member. 7. The drive motor according to claim 6 wherein the disk member defines a series of gear teeth around its periphery for driving by engagement with the sprocket. 8. The drive motor according to claim 4 wherein the rotatable head includes a collar with the disk clamped onto an outside surface of the collar. 9. The drive motor according to claim 1 wherein the driven member includes an axially extending abutment finger and the rotatable head includes a pair of elements mounted thereon and defining a slot for receiving the finger. 10. The drive motor according to claim 8 wherein the rotatable head includes a sleeve which clamps the disk on to the collar and wherein the driven member includes an axially extending abutment finger and the sleeve includes a pair of elements mounted on an inside surface thereof at a position axially spaced from the disk and defining a slot for receiving the finger. 11. A drive motor for driving a tool, the motor comprising: a motor housing having a mounting connection for attachment of the housing to a support; a rotor within the housing mounted for driven rotation about a longitudinal motor axis of the housing; a chuck on the rotor; an angled drive coupling having an input drive connection for mounting in the chuck and an output drive connection arranged at an angle to the axis for driving the tool about a tool drive axis inclined to one side of the motor axis; a rotatable head mounted on the housing and having a detent on the rotatable head for engaging a fixed component of the angled drive coupling so as to hold the axis of the angled drive coupling at a required angle around the axis of the housing and for adjusting the angle; and an adjustment motor mounted on the housing for driving adjustment rotation of the rotatable head around the axis so as to effect adjustment of the required angle without removal of the angled drive coupling from the chuck. 12. The drive motor according to claim 11 wherein the rotatable head includes a series of angularly spaced receptacles and wherein there is provided a locking pin operable to engage into a selected one of the receptacles to lock the head at the required angle when rotated to the required angle by the adjustment motor. 13. The drive motor according to claim 12 wherein the locking pin is retractable by a pin retraction motor. 14. The drive motor according to claim 11 wherein the rotatable head includes an annular disk member which surrounds the axis of the motor and through which the driven member extends into the chuck. 15. The drive motor according to claim 14 wherein the adjustment motor includes a sprocket arranged to drive the disk member. 16. The drive motor according to claim 15 wherein the disk member defines a series of gear teeth around its periphery for driving by engagement with the sprocket. 17. A drive motor for driving a tool, the motor comprising: a motor housing having a mounting connection for attachment of the housing to a support; a rotor within the housing mounted for driven rotation about a longitudinal motor axis of the housing; a chuck on the rotor; an angled drive coupling having an input drive connection for mounting in the chuck and an output drive connection arranged at an angle to the axis for driving the tool about a tool drive axis inclined to one side of the motor axis; a rotatable head mounted on the housing and having a detent on the rotatable head for engaging a fixed component of the angled drive coupling so as to hold the axis of the angled drive coupling at a required angle around the axis of the housing and for adjusting the angle; wherein the rotatable head includes an annular disk member which surrounds the axis of the motor and has a central hole through which the driven member extends into the chuck; the disk member having a series of holes through the disk member at angularly spaced locations around the axis; a locking pin driven by a locking pin motor operable to engage into a selected one of the holes to lock the head at the required angle when rotated to the required angle by the adjustment motor; and an adjustment motor mounted on the housing and including a sprocket arranged to drive the disk member for driving adjustment rotation of the rotatable head around the axis so as to effect adjustment of the required angle without removal of the angled drive coupling from the chuck. 18. The drive motor according to claim 17 wherein the disk member defines a series of gear teeth around its periphery for driving by engagement with the sprocket. 19. The drive motor according to claim 17 wherein the rotatable head includes a collar with the disk clamped onto an outside surface of the collar. 20. The drive motor according to claim 17 wherein the angled drive coupling includes an axially extending abutment finger and the rotatable head includes a pair of elements mounted thereon and defining a slot for receiving the finger. 21. The drive motor according to claim 17 wherein the rotatable head includes a sleeve which clamps the disk on to the collar and wherein the driven member includes an axially extending abutment finger and the sleeve includes a pair of elements mounted on an inside surface thereof at a position axially spaced from the disk and defining a slot for receiving the finger. 