A stray voltage detector has a portable housing carrying a pair of electrostatic charge sensors spaced apart along an axis, and a pair of field intensity indicators, each indicator connected to an associated one of the charge sensors and constructed to indicate a relative electric field intensity at its associated sensor. The voltage detector is constructed to provide simultaneous electric field intensity feedback from both indicators to an operator moving the housing along the axis over a surface with a localized region at an elevated voltage, to assist in locating the localized elevated voltage region. The detector is useful for locating high-voltage regions, even when there is little or no current flowing through such regions to generate a magnetic field.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stray voltage detector comprising a housing carrying a pair of electrostatic charge sensors spaced apart along an axis; a pair of field intensity indicators, each indicator operably connected to an associated one of the charge sensors and constructed to indicate a relative electric field intensity at its associated sensor; and a conductive shield trace extending between the electrostatic charge sensors; the voltage detector thus being constructed to provide simultaneous electric field intensity feedback from both indicators to an operator moving the housing along the axis over a surface with a localized region at an elevated voltage, to assist in locating the localized elevated voltage region; wherein the electrostatic charge sensors each comprise a conductor positioned and configured to define a capacitor in cooperation with the localized elevated voltage region. 2. The stray voltage detector of claim 1 wherein the conductor comprises a substantially flat plate. 3. The stray voltage detector of claim 2 wherein the flat plate has a thickness of less than about 0.005 inch. 4. The stray voltage detector of claim 1 wherein the conductor comprises a portion of a conductive layer of a printed circuit board. 5. The stray voltage detector of claim 1 wherein the electrostatic charge sensors each comprise a plate of conductive material on a circuit board. 6. The stray voltage detector of claim 5 wherein the plates comprise portions of an etched copper layer of the circuit board. 7. The stray voltage detector of claim 6 wherein the plates are electrically connected to electrical components on the circuit board through vias. 8. The stray voltage detector of claim 5 wherein the conductive shield trace is connected to an electrical ground potential of the circuit board. 9. The stray voltage detector of claim 1 wherein the conductive shield trace lies directly between, and is coplanar with, the electrostatic charge sensors. 10. The stray voltage detector of claim 1 further comprising a pair of amplification circuits, each amplification circuit having an input connected to a respective one of the electrostatic charge sensors. 11. The stray voltage detector of claim 10 wherein each amplification circuit comprises first and second amplification stages connected in series. 12. The stray voltage detector of claim 11 wherein the second amplification stage provides an adjustable gain. 13. The stray voltage detector of claim 1 wherein the indicators comprise left and right audio speakers. 14. The stray voltage detector of claim 13 wherein the left and right audio speakers are of a headset wearable by the operator. 15. The stray voltage detector of claim 13 further comprising visual field intensity displays, each display operably connected to an associated one of the charge sensors, such that the indicators and displays provide simultaneous left and right audio-visual feedback indicative of relative field intensity. 16. The stray voltage detector of claim 1 wherein the indicators are visual field intensity displays arranged to be viewed simultaneously by the operator. 17. The stray voltage detector of claim 16 wherein the displays each comprise a series of lights that sequentially illuminate with increasing field intensity. 18. The stray voltage detector of claim 1 wherein the housing is hand-portable. 19. The stray voltage detector of claim 18 wherein the housing is elongated, with a lower end carrying the sensors laterally spaced apart, and an upper end having a handle graspable by the operator to move the lower end of the housing across the surface while walking erect on the surface. 20. The stray voltage detector of claim 19 wherein the handle is arranged to define a forward direction perpendicular to the axis along which the sensors are spaced apart, such that the sensors and their associated indicators comprise left and right sensor-indicator pairings. 21. The stray voltage detector of claim 20 wherein the left sensor-indicator pairing includes a left audio speaker operably connected to the sensor of the left sensor-indicator pairing, and wherein the right sensor-indicator pairing includes a right audio speaker operably connected to the sensor of the right sensor-indicator pairing. 22. The stray voltage detector of claim 1 further comprising a GPS receiver carried by the housing and having a display visible by the operator to indicate position of the stray voltage detector. 23. The stray voltage detector of claim 22 further comprising a wireless transmitter operable to send a signal indicating detector position to a remote receiver. 24. The stray voltage detector of claim 22 further comprising stray voltage location memory storage contained within the housing. 25. The stray voltage detector of claim 24 wherein the memory storage is configured to save sets of data, each set including an indication of test date and time, location latitude and longitude, and whether a stray voltage fault was detected. 26. The stray voltage detector of claim 1 further comprising a data port disposed on the housing and connectable to a data storage medium for storing stray voltage location data. 27. The stray voltage detector of claim 26 wherein the data storage medium is configured to time stamp stored stray voltage location data. 28. A method of detecting stray mains voltage, the method comprising providing a portable detector with a housing carrying a pair of electrostatic charge sensors spaced apart along an axis, and a pair of field intensity indicators, each indicator operably connected to an associated one of the electrostatic charge sensors and constructed to indicate a relative electric field intensity at its associated sensor; moving the housing along the axis over a surface with a localized region at an elevated voltage, such that the elevated voltage region passes under a first, then a second of the pair of sensors, while monitoring the indicators; in response to the indicators indicating a shift in maximum field intensity from the first to the second sensor, moving the housing back along the axis until the indicators indicate approximately an equal field intensity at the sensors; and recording housing position as a location of a stray mains voltage. 29. The method of claim 28 further comprising adjusting an amplification of a signal from one of the electrostatic charge sensors to its associated field intensity indicator. 30. The method of claim 28 wherein monitoring the indicators comprises listening to left and right audio speakers, each speaker associated with a respective charge sensor. 31. The method of claim 28 wherein monitoring the indicators comprises observing left and right visual indicators, each visual indicator associated with a respective charge sensor. 32. The method of claim 28 wherein the housing is moved by hand. 33. The method of claim 28 wherein recording housing position comprises determining housing position by global satellite positioning and digitally recording the determined housing position in a memory storage. 34. The method of claim 33 further comprising wirelessly transmitting housing position to a remote receiver. 35. A stray voltage detector responsive to a localized elevated voltage region of an exposed surface, the detector comprising a housing carrying a pair of electrostatic charge sensors spaced apart along an axis, each electrostatic charge sensor comprising a conductor positioned and configured to define a capacitor in cooperation with the localized elevated voltage region; left and right audio speakers each operably connected to an associated one of the charge sensors and constructed to indicate a relative electric field intensity at its associated sensor; and left and right visual field intensity displays, each display operably connected to an associated one of the charge sensors, such that the indicators and displays provide simultaneous left and right audio-visual feedback indicative of relative field intensity; the voltage detector thus being constructed to provide simultaneous electric field intensity feedback, from both the speakers and the displays, to an operator moving the housing along the axis over the exposed surface, to assist in locating the localized elevated voltage region. 36. The stray voltage detector of claim 35 wherein the left and right audio speakers are of a headset wearable by the operator. 37. A stray voltage detector responsive to a localized elevated voltage region of an exposed surface, the detector comprising a housing carrying a pair of electrostatic charge sensors spaced apart along an axis, each electrostatic charge sensor comprising a conductor positioned and configured to define a capacitor in cooperation with the localized elevated voltage region; a pair of field intensity indicators, each indicator operably connected to an associated one of the charge sensors and constructed to indicate a relative electric field intensity at its associated sensor; a GPS receiver carried by the housing; and stray voltage location memory storage contained within the housing and configured to store data indicative of determined positions of located stray voltages; the voltage detector thus being constructed to provide simultaneous electric field intensity feedback from both field intensity indicators to an operator moving the housing along the axis over the exposed surface, to assist in locating the localized elevated voltage region, and to store voltage location data. 38. The stray voltage detector of claim 37 wherein the memory storage is configured to save sets of data, each set including an indication of test date and time, location latitude and longitude, and whether a stray voltage fault was detected. 39. The stray voltage detector of claim 37 further comprising a data port disposed on the housing and connectable to a data storage medium for storing stray voltage location data. 