An apparatus and method incorporating at least two sensors that detect the presence of substrate defects, such as breakage or misalignment, along the lengths of at least two parallel edges of a moving substrate. In one embodiment, an apparatus for detecting substrate defects includes a sensor arrangement including at least two sensors that continuously sense a substrate near at least two parallel edges of the substrate as the substrate passes the sensors. In another embodiment, an apparatus for detecting substrate defects includes a robot having a substrate support surface, and a sensor arrangement including at least two sensors that continuously sense a substrate near at least two parallel edges of the substrate during substrate transfer on the substrate support surface. In another embodiment, a method of continuously detecting substrate defects includes positioning at least two sensors to continuously sense a substrate near at least two parallel edges of the substrate as the substrate passes the sensors, and transmitting a signal from each of the at least two sensors to a controller that continuously monitors the signals from the at least two sensors to detect the presence of a substrate defect.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for detecting substrate defects, comprising a first sensor positioned to sense a first edge of a substrate and a second sensor positioned to simultaneously sense a second edge of the substrate parallel to the first edge of the substrate as the substrate passes the first and second sensors, wherein each of the first and second sensors comprise a transmitter and a receiver positioned below an edge of the substrate and a corresponding reflector positioned above the edge of the substrate in a configuration such that a common vertical plane intersects the transmitter, the receiver, and the corresponding reflector. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transmitter is a laser or a light emitting diode. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transmitter is a laser configured to emit a laser beam of light having a diameter less than about 3 millimeters when the laser beam of light impinges upon a top or bottom surface of the substrate. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the laser beam of light has a diameter less than about 1 millimeter when the laser beam of light impinges upon a top or bottom surface of the substrate. 5. An apparatus for detecting substrate defects, comprising: a robot having at least one substrate support surface for supporting a substrate thereon; and a sensor arrangement including a first sensor positioned to sense a first edge of a substrate and a second sensor positioned to simultaneously sense a second edge of the substrate parallel to the first edge of the substrate during substrate transfer on the at least one substrate support surface, wherein each of the first and second sensors comprise a transmitter and a receiver positioned below an edge of the substrate and a corresponding reflector positioned above the edge of the substrate in a configuration such that a common vertical plane intersects the transmitter, the receiver, and the corresponding reflector. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the transmitter is a laser or a light emitting diode. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the transmitter is a laser configured to emit a laser beam of light having a diameter less than about 3 millimeters when the laser beam of light impinges upon a top or bottom surface of the substrate. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the laser beam of light has a diameter less than about 1 millimeter when the laser beam of light impinges upon a top or bottom surface of the substrate. 9. An apparatus for detecting substrate breakage and misalignment, comprising: a transfer chamber having at least one view window; a substrate supported on an end effector within the transfer chamber; and a sensor arrangement including at least two sensors mounted on or near an exterior of the at least one view window in a configuration such that a sensing mechanism of each of the at least two sensors may pass through the at least one view window, wherein the at least two sensors are adapted to continuously sense at least two parallel edges of the substrate to detect the presence of a substrate chip, crack, or misalignment of the at least two parallel edges as the end effector moves the substrate through the sensing mechanism of each of the at least two sensors. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the at least two sensors are positioned proximate a passage of an adjacent chamber such that each of the at least two sensors can sense an edge portion of the substrate prior to entering the passage of the adjacent chamber or each of the at least two sensors can sense an edge portion of the substrate after exiting the passage of the chamber. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the end effector moves the substrate through the sensing mechanism of each of the at least two sensors at a velocity in a range from about 100 millimeters per second to about 2000 millimeters per second. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the at least two sensors are adapted to detect a substrate chip or crack greater than about 1 millimeter. 13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein each of the at least two sensors comprise a transmitter and a receiver positioned below an edge of the substrate and a corresponding reflector positioned above the edge of the substrate in a configuration such that a common vertical plane intersects the transmitter, the receiver, and the corresponding reflector. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the transmitter is a laser or a light emitting diode. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the transmitter is a laser configured to emit a laser beam of light having a diameter less than about 3 millimeters when the laser beam of light impinges upon a top or bottom surface of the substrate. 16. A method of continuously detecting substrate defects, comprising: positioning at least two sensors such that the at least two sensors continuously sense at least two parallel edges of a substrate as the substrate passes each of the at least two sensors; and transmitting a signal from each of the at least two sensors to a controller that continuously monitors the signals from the at least two sensors to detect the presence of a substrate defect. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the substrate traverses a sensing mechanism of each of the at least two sensors at a velocity in a range from about 100 millimeters per second to about 2000 millimeters per second. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein positioning the at least two sensors comprises mounting the at least two sensors on or near an exterior of at least one view window in a configuration such that a sensing mechanism of each of the at least two sensors may pass through the at least one view window prior to or after sensing the substrate. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the substrate traverses a sensing mechanism by transferring the substrate on an end effector of a robot. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the robot has another end effector that simultaneously supports and moves another substrate. 