An ultrasonic surveying method includes a network of transceivers adjacent the item to be surveyed to establish a reference plane and locating an array of pingers on the object to be surveyed to establish a survey plane, establishing by ranging from the pingers to the network the location of the survey plane, detecting relative motion between the network and the pingers and correcting survey measurements for the detected motion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ultrasonic surveying method, comprising the steps of: placing a network of transceivers in a body of water adjacent an object to be surveyed to establish a reference plane; locating an array of pingers on the object to be surveyed to establish a survey plane; establishing by ranging from the pingers to the network the location of the survey plane relative to the network; detecting relative motion between the network and the pingers during the surveying; correcting the location of the survey plane based on the detected motion; and, making survey measurements based on the corrected location of the survey plane, the step of making the survey measurements including flying an underwater robot around the object to be surveyed and ultrasonically measuring the position of the robot relative to the network, whereby robotic measurements can be correlated to points on the corrected location of the survey plane. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the object surveyed includes a fixed underwater structure. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference system for the reference and survey planes includes a common axis. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the common axis is the Z-axis and wherein the Z-axis is perpendicular to the surface of the body of water. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the correcting step includes correcting the location of a point on the survey plane by rotating an original point on the survey plane about the Z-axis. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the correcting step includes correcting the location of a point on the survey plane by translating an original point on the survey plane along an axis orthogonal to the Z-axis. 7. An ultrasonic surveying method, comprising the steps of: placing a network of transceivers in a body of water adjacent a ship well to establish a reference plane; locating an array of pingers on the ship hull to establish a survey plane; establishing by ranging from the pingers to the network the location of the survey plane relative to the network; detecting relative motion between the network and the pingers during the surveying; correcting the location of the survey plane based on the detected motion; and, making survey measurements based on the corrected location of the survey plane. 8. An ultrasonic surveying method, comprising the steps of: placing a network of transceivers in a body of water adjacent a dam to establish a reference plane; locating an array of pingers on the dam to establish a survey plane; establishing by ranging from the pingers to the network the location of the survey plane relative to the network; detecting relative motion between the network and the pingers during the surveying; correcting the location of the survey plane based on the detected motion; and, making survey measurements based on the corrected location of the survey plane. 9. An ultrasonic surveying method, comprising the steps of: placing a network of transceivers in a body of water adjacent an object to be surveyed to establish a reference plane including locating the transceivers on the floor of the body of water; locating an array of Pingers on the object to be surveyed to establish a survey plane; establishing by ranging from the pingers to the network the location of the survey plane relative to the network; detecting relative motion between the network and the pingers during the surveying; correcting the location of the survey plane based on the detected motion; and, making survey measurements based on the corrected location of the survey plane. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein establishing the reference plane includes the step of offsetting the reported location of the transceivers on the floor of the body of water to establish a virtual horizontal reference plane. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the offsetting step includes the step of ascertaining the depth of each transceiver. 12. A system for surveying an underwater object located in a body of water, comprising: a plurality of pingers located on the surface of the underwater object to define a survey plane, each pinger actuated to emit a pinger pulse at a predetermined time; a network of transceivers adjacent the underwater object to establish a reference plane, each of said transceivers having an ultrasonic transducer for receiving pinger pulses and a transmitter for transmitting the output of said ultrasonic transducer to a remote location, each of said transceivers having a clock reset at the time a pinger pulse is emitted and stopped when a pinger pulse is received, thus to provide an indication of the range of the transceiver to a pinger to establish the location of the survey plane; a surveying device for surveying the underwater object located adjacent the underwater object, the position of the surveying device being determined relative to the reference plane established by said network; and, a motion compensation subsystem for detecting the instantaneous position of said survey plane during surveying including a processor for calculating the movement of the survey plane based on the detected ranges of said pingers from said transceivers. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the location of each of said transceivers is fixed. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein each of said transceivers has a depth sensor for determining the depth of each transducer from the surface of said body of water. 15. The system of claim 14, and further including a processor coupled to each depth sensor for providing a virtual horizontal reference plane by offsetting the actual reference plane established by the location of the transducers on the floor of said body of water, whereby the location of the survey plane can be established from the virtual horizontal reference plane. 16. The system of claim 12, wherein each of said transducers emits pinging pulses at a different ultrasonic frequency, thus to be able to establish the range of a particular pinger to said network. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the transducers of said transceivers are tunable so as to detect pinger pulses emitted from a selected pinger. 18. A method of rapidly surveying a ship hull in an in-water survey, comprising the steps of: placing a network of transceivers adjacent the hull to establish a reference plane; locating an array of ultrasonic pingers on the surface of the hull to establish a survey plane; establishing by ultrasonic ranging from the pingers to the network the location of the survey plane relative to the network; making survey measurements from a surveying instrument relative to the survey plane and, during measurement, compensating the survey measurements for a shift in the position of the hull relative to the network of transceivers. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the survey location measurement accuracy is less than one centimeter between measured points on the hull, thus to provide virtually continuous surveying of the hull, whereby survey gaps are substantially eliminated. 