In a system having a number of semiconductor processing modules sharing a common vacuum environment, a mid-entry load lock is provided to permit insertion and removal of wafers into the vacuum environment at a point between various other robotic handlers, process modules, and load locks. This arrangement permits increased flexibility in scheduling when multiple wafers are processed concurrently.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for processing a workpiece comprising: arranging a plurality of processing modules in a sequence to sequentially operate on a workpiece in a vacuum environment, each one of the plurality of processing modules coupled to the vacuum environment and positioned along an edge of the vacuum environment; providing at least two load locks for exchanging the workpiece between the vacuum environment and an external environment, the at least two load locks positioned at opposite ends of the sequence of processing modules; positioning a mid-entry load lock in the sequence such that the mid-entry load lock is separated along the edge of the vacuum environment from one of the at least two load locks on each side of the mid-entry load lock by at least one of the plurality of processing modules; and adding a workpiece to the sequence from the external environment at the mid-entry load lock. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising delivering the workpiece to or from the mid-entry load lock using an air-based delivery system. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing a plurality of mid-entry load lock facilities along the sequence of processing modules, each one of the mid-entry load lock facilities positioned between the at least two load locks. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising moving the workpiece among the plurality of mid-entry load lock facilities using an air-based delivery system. 5. The method of claim 3 further comprising processing the workpiece with a selected, sequential subset of the plurality of processing modules between two of the mid-entry load lock facilities. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein the processing modules are arranged to perform a plurality of different fabrication processes depending upon the one of the plurality of mid-entry load lock facilities. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the mid-entry load lock connects a plurality of different manufacturing facilities. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the manufacturing facilities are arranged to conserve space. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising moving the workpiece within the vacuum environment using at least one robotic handler. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising moving the workpiece within the vacuum environment using at least one three-link SCARA arm. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the processing modules operate on the workpiece in a controlled environment, wherein the controlled environment includes at least one of a vacuum, a controlled pressure, a controlled temperature, a controlled air purity, and a controlled gas mixture. 12. A method for processing a workpiece comprising: arranging a plurality of processing modules in a sequence to sequentially operate on a workpiece in a vacuum environment, each one of the plurality of processing modules coupled to the vacuum environment and positioned along an edge of the vacuum environment; providing at least two load locks for exchanging the workpiece between the vacuum environment and an external environment, the at least two load locks positioned at opposite ends of the sequence of processing modules; positioning a mid-entry load lock in the sequence such that the mid-entry load lock is separated along the edge of the vacuum environment from one of the at least two load locks on each side of the mid-entry load lock by at least one of the plurality of processing modules; and removing a workpiece from the sequence at the mid-entry load lock. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising delivering the workpiece to or from the mid-entry load lock using an air-based delivery system. 14. The method of claim 12 further comprising providing a plurality of mid-entry load lock facilities along a sequential process, each one of the mid-entry load lock facilities positioned between the at least two load locks. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising moving the workpiece among the plurality of mid-entry load lock facilities using an air-based delivery system. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising processing the workpiece with a selected, sequential subset of the plurality of processing modules between two of the mid-entry load lock facilities. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein the processing modules are arranged to perform a plurality of different fabrication processes depending upon the one of the plurality of mid-entry load lock facilities. 18. The method of claim 12 wherein the mid-entry load lock connects a plurality of different manufacturing facilities. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the manufacturing facilities are arranged to conserve space. 20. The method of claim 12 wherein the processing modules operate on the workpiece in a controlled environment, wherein the controlled environment includes at least one of a vacuum, a controlled pressure, a controlled temperature, a controlled air purity, and a controlled gas mixture. 21. The method of claim 12 further comprising moving the workpiece within the vacuum environment using at least one robotic handler. 22. The method of claim 12 further comprising moving the workpiece within the vacuum environment using at least one three-link SCARA arm. 