A printhead assembly is provided, having at least two printhead modules, each having at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and a support member supporting the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and a casing in which the at least two printhead modules are arranged so as to be removably mounted in linearly aligned relationship. The support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits, and each printhead module has end portions which permit interconnection of the linearly aligned printhead modules and provide for fluid connection of the channels of the support members thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least two printhead modules, each comprising a support frame, at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and a support member attached to the support frame, on which the at least two printhead integrated circuits are fixedly mounted; and a casing configured to removably mount the at least two printhead modules in linearly aligned relationship such that each of the printhead modules are arranged to be individually mounted and detached from the casing as single modular components, wherein the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits, and each of the printhead modules has respective end portions which permit interconnection of the linearly aligned printhead modules and provide for fluid connection of the channels of the support members thereof. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the end portions of each of the printhead modules comprise complementary female and male end portions. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein a sealing adhesive is provided at the interface of the interconnected printhead modules. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the sealing adhesive is an epoxy. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least two printhead modules are each formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, at least one fluid distribution member mounting the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and each of the support members has a plurality of apertures extending from the at least one channel through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 