The system of the present invention includes an actuator having at least two electrodes, an elastomeric dielectric film disposed between the two electrodes, and a frame attached to the elastomeric dielectric film. The frame provides a linear actuation force characteristic over a displacement range. The displacement range is preferably the stroke of the actuator. The displacement range can be about 5 mm and greater. Further, the frame can include a plurality of configurations, for example, at least a rigid members coupled to a flexible member wherein the frame provides an elastic restoring force. In preferred embodiments, the rigid member can be, but is not limited to, curved beams, parallel beams, rods and plates. In a preferred embodiment the actuator can further include a passive element disposed between two flexible members such as, for example, links to tune a stiffness characteristic of the actuator. The passive element can be a bi-stable element. Further, the actuator can include a plurality of layers of the elastomeric dielectric film integrated into the frame. The elastomeric film can be made of different materials such as, for example, acrylic, silicone and latex.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A bistable actuator having at least two electrodes, comprising: a bistable element; an elastomeric dielectric polymer film disposed between the at least two electrodes, the film having a displacement range between a first position and a second position; and a frame attached to the bistable element and at least a portion of the film, the frame and the film moving between the first position and the second position in response to actuation by the electrodes to form a bistable actuator, the frame, the film and electrodes comprising an actuator that actuates the bistable element between a first bistable position and a second bistable position, wherein the displacement between the first position and second position is greater than about 5 mm, and the frame and the film have a linear actuation force characteristic that is within about ten percent of the applied actuation force over the displacement range. 2. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the frame further comprises at least two relatively rigid members coupled to a flexible element. 3. The actuator of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of layers of the elastomeric dielectric film attached to the frame. 4. The actuator of claim 2 wherein the relatively rigid members include one of parallel beams, curved beams, rods and plates. 5. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the elastomeric film comprises at least a layer of one of acrylic and silicone. 6. The actuator of claim 2 wherein the flexible element comprises one of links, and a continuous compliant member. 7. The actuator of claim 1 further comprising an antagonistic pair of actuators. 8. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the displacement range comprises stroke of the actuator. 9. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the film has one of a plurality of shapes. 10. The actuator of claim 9 wherein the plurality of shapes includes at least one of a cone, and a cylinder. 11. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the actuator remains in either the first position or the second position without the application of power to the electrodes. 12. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the film expands in a first direction and contracts in a second direction upon application of an electric field between the electrodes. 13. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the film extends in a plane parallel to an actuator plane in which the actuator moves between the first position and the second position. 14. A bistable actuator comprising: a bistable element; a first elastomeric dielectric polymer film disposed between a first electrode and a second electrode, the first film having a displacement range between a first position and a second position; and a first frame attached to the bistable element and at least a portion of the first film, the first frame and the first film moving between the first position and the second position in response to actuation by the first electrode and the second electrode; a second elastomeric dielectric polymer film disposed between a third electrode and a fourth electrode, the second film having a displacement range between a third position and a fourth position; a second frame attached to the bistable element and at least a portion of the second film, the second frame and the second film moving between the third position and the fourth position in response to actuation by the third electrode and the fourth electrode. wherein the displacement between the first position and the second position is greater than about 5 mm and the frame and the film have a linear actuation force characteristic that is within about ten percent of the applied actuation force over the displacement range. 15. The actuator of claim 14 wherein the first frame further comprises at least two relatively rigid members coupled to a flexible element. 16. The actuator of claim 14 further comprising a plurality of layers of the elastomeric dielectric film attached to the first frame. 17. The actuator of claim 15 wherein the relatively rigid members include one of parallel beams, curved beams, rods and plates. 18. The actuator of claim 14 wherein the first elastomeric film comprises at least a layer of one of acrylic and silicone. 19. The actuator of claim 15 wherein the flexible element comprises one of links, and a continuous compliant member. 20. The actuator of claim 14 wherein the first frame and the second frame comprises an antagonistic pair of actuators. 21. The actuator of claim 14 wherein the, displacement range comprises a stroke of the actuator. 22. The actuator of claim 14 wherein the film has one of a plurality of shapes. 23. The actuator of claim 22 wherein the plurality of shapes includes at least one of a cone, and a cylinder. 24. The actuator of claim 14 wherein the film remains in the first position or the second position without the application of power to the first electrode and the second electrode. 