Apparatus, systems, and methods for inspecting a structure are provided which use a sensor holder constructed from rapid prototyping, such as stereolithography, and which is configured to support a plurality of inspection sensors typically arranged in an ordered matrix array and possibly with one or more additional inspection sensors aligned for inspection of difficult to inspect features of a structure such as radius corner or edge features. Rapid prototype integrated matrix array inspection apparatus, systems, and methods provide fast and efficient methods of constructing custom inspection devices.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A non-destructive inspection apparatus for inspecting a structure, comprising: a sensor holder defining a plurality of holes for supporting and orienting a plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors arranged in a matrix array having at least two rows and at least two columns, wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least a first portion of the structure, and wherein at least a first offset hole in a first row of the matrix array of holes is defined at a first offset position from the holes in other columns in the matrix array of holes, such that the first offset hole is positioned to inspect a different portion of the structure than the holes in other columns in the matrix array of holes. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor holder is further configured to define the plurality of holes aligned at a first angle to the structure to permit a plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors supported by the plurality of holes aligned at the first angle and arranged in the matrix array to inspect a first portion of the structure at the first angle while the sensor holder travels over at least the first portion of the structure. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor holder further defines at least one radius hole defined at a second angle to the structure for supporting at least one non-destructive inspection sensor for inspecting at least one radius feature of the structure while the sensor holder travels over at least the first portion of the structure. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a plurality of pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensors connected to the sensor holder and disposed within the holes of the matrix array and the at least one radius hole. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a fluid manifold and a fluid inlet port connected to the fluid manifold, wherein the fluid inlet port is configured for injecting a fluid into the fluid manifold, and wherein the sensor holder is further configured for permitting the dispersion of fluid from the fluid manifold throughout the holes of the matrix array. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising a plurality of pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensors connected to the sensor holder and disposed within holes of the matrix array, and wherein the sensor holder is further configured for coupling ultrasonic signals of the pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensors to the structure by passing fluid through the holes and between the pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensors and the structure. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising at least one transducer plug insert that is disposed within a hole of the matrix array. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensors connected to the sensor holder and positioned within the holes of the matrix array. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising an encoder configured for measuring at least one of the following characteristics of the inspection apparatus with respect to the structure under inspection: position, speed, direction, and velocity. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising an optical shaft encoder for detecting the position of the sensor holder with respect to the structure. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a motor for moving the sensor holder over the structure. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein all of the holes of each row of the matrix array of holes are defined in offset positions from all of the holes of each of the other rows of the matrix array of holes. 13. A system for inspecting a structure comprising: a housing configured for traveling over at least a first portion of the structure under inspection; a sensor holder carried by the housing, wherein the sensor holder defines a plurality of holes for supporting and orienting a plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors arranged in a matrix array, and wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least the first portion of the structure under inspection; a plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors carried by the sensor holder for inspecting the structure as the sensor holder is moved over the structure, and wherein the plurality of sensors are disposed within holes of the matrix array; a fluid manifold and a fluid inlet port connected to the fluid manifold, wherein the fluid inlet port is configured for injecting a fluid into the fluid manifold, and wherein the sensor holder is further configured for permitting the disbursement of fluid from the fluid manifold throughout the holes of the matrix array. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the sensor holder defines the fluid manifold. 15. The system of claim 13, further comprising a motor carried by the housing and configured to move the housing over at least the first portion of the structure. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the housing and sensor holder are configured for inspecting hat stringers, and wherein the housing is further configured for adjusting the position of the motor carried by the housing for inspecting hat stringers with different heights. 17. The system of claim 13, further comprising an encoder carried by the housing and configured for measuring at least one of the following characteristics of the housing with respect to the structure under inspection: position, speed, direction, and velocity. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the housing is further configured for adjusting the position of the sensor holder carried by the housing to position the matrix array of sensors for inspecting the structure. 19. The system of claim 13, wherein the housing is further configured to define a handle for manual inspection of a structure. 20. A non-destructive inspection apparatus for inspecting a structure, comprising: a sensor holder defining a plurality of holes for supporting and orienting a plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors arranged in a matrix array, wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least a first portion of the structure, and wherein the sensor holder is further configured to define at least a first hole of the plurality of holes aligned at a first angle to the structure to permit a first one of the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors supported by the first holes and aligned at the first angle to inspect at least a portion of the structure at the first angle while the sensor holder travels over the structure. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the sensor holder is further configured to define the plurality of holes aligned at the first angle to the structure to permit a plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors supported by the plurality of holes aligned at the first angle and arranged in the matrix array to inspect a planar portion of the first portion of the structure at the first angle while the sensor holder travels over at least the first portion of the structure. 22. The apparatus of claim 20, further comprising a fluid manifold and a fluid inlet port connected to the fluid manifold, wherein the fluid inlet port is configured for injecting a fluid into the fluid manifold, and wherein the sensor holder is further configured for permitting the dispersion of fluid from the fluid manifold throughout the holes of the matrix array. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising a plurality of pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensors connected to the sensor holder and disposed within holes of the matrix array, and wherein the sensor holder is further configured for coupling ultrasonic signals of the pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensors to the structure by passing fluid through the holes and between the pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensors and the structure. 24. A non-destructive inspection apparatus for inspecting a structure, comprising: a sensor holder defining a plurality of holes for supporting and orienting a plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors arranged in a matrix array, wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least a first portion of the structure, and wherein the sensor holder further defines at least one radius hole defined at a second angle to the structure for supporting at least one non-destructive inspection sensor for inspecting at least one radius feature of the structure while the sensor holder travels over at least the first portion of the structure. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, further comprising a plurality of pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensors connected to the sensor holder and disposed within the holes of the matrix array and the at least one radius hole. 26. The apparatus of claim 24, further comprising a fluid manifold and a fluid inlet port connected to the fluid manifold, wherein the fluid inlet port is configured for injecting a fluid into the fluid manifold, and wherein the sensor holder is further configured for permitting the dispersion of fluid from the fluid manifold throughout the holes of the matrix array. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising a plurality of pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensors connected to the sensor holder and disposed within holes of the matrix array, and wherein the sensor holder is further configured for coupling ultrasonic signals of the pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensors to the structure by passing fluid through the holes and between the pulse echo ultrasonic inspection sensors and the structure. 