The present invention comprises a load port for providing access to an article that is stored in a container having a container door removably coupled to a container shell. The load port preferably loads/unloads a container directly from a container transport system. In one embodiment, the load port includes a plate having an opening, a container support plate, a drive assembly for moving the support plate vertically and a shroud to partially enclose the opening. The shroud, which may be affixed to the mounting plate, has an open top and bottom. The shroud contains a mechanism for retaining the container shell at a controllable height. During operation, a container is raised from the transport system into the shroud until the container shell is retained by the mechanism. After the container shell is uncoupled from the container door, the container support plate is lowered until the article is accessible through the opening. The container shell remains located at the controllable height. The container shell, in combination with the shroud, creates a mini-environment isolating the article from ambient conditions in the fabrication facility.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A load port for providing access to an article stored in a container having a container door removably coupled to a container shell, comprising: a plate having an opening for allowing passage of the article stored in the container and the plate being oriented in a vertical orientation, the plate extending between a top portion and a bottom portion; a container support plate being adapted to receive the container; a connector coupled with said container support plate; a drive assembly, coupled with said connector, for moving said container support plate substantially vertically along the vertical orientation of the plate; a shroud affixed to said plate, the shroud extends and defines an enclosure in the vertical orientation when affixed to the plate, the enclosure having an open top and an open bottom, whereby the enclosure has a dimension that enables the container having the container door and the container shell to pass through the enclosure that is defined by the shroud and the plate, the shroud being in a region of the opening of the plate and not extending to the bottom portion of the plate; a mechanism extending into the enclosure, the mechanism being coupled to the shroud and the plate, the mechanism defined to retain the container shell at a controllable height; and wherein the container shell retained by said mechanism, that is subsequently uncoupled from the container door within the enclosure, remains located at said controllable height after said container door is moved away from said container shell. 2. The load port as recited in claim 1, further including a port door adapted to move between an open position that allows access to the article though said opening, and a closed position that substantially covers said opening. 3. The load port as recited in claim 1, wherein said container support plate includes at least one registration feature for engaging a bottom surface of the container. 4. The load port as recited in claim 1, wherein said container support may also move substantially horizontally towards and away from said plate. 5. The load port as recited in claim 1, wherein the container shell, retained by said mechanism, creates a proximity seal, for the enclosure, with said shroud. 6. The load port as recited in claim 1, wherein said container support plate is adapted to receive a container for storing semiconductor wafers having a diameter between 100 mm 600 mm. 7. The load port as recited in claim 1, wherein the container shell extends partially out of said open top of said shroud while retained by said mechanism. 8. The load port as recited in claim 1, wherein said plate comprises a BOLTS interface. 9. The load port as recited in claim 1, wherein said plate comprises a BOLTS-light interface. 10. The load port as recited in claim 1, wherein the load port is located proximate to a conveyor such that said container support plate, through substantially only vertical motion, is able to lift a container seated on the conveyor directly off of the conveyor and into the enclosure defined by the shroud and the plate. 11. The load port as recited in claim 1, wherein a 1 mm-30 mm gap exists between an outer edge of said container support plate and an interior surface or feature of said shroud while said container support plate is located within said shroud. 12. The load port as recited in claim 1, wherein a 1 mm-30 mm gap exists between an outer edge of said container door and an interior surface or feature of said shroud while said container door is located within said shroud. 13. The load port as recited in claim 1, where in a 1 mm-30 mm gap exists between an outer edge of said container shell and an interior surface or feature of said shroud while said container shell is located within said shroud. 14. The load port as recited in claim 1, wherein said mechanism is connected at least in part to said shroud, and the container shell has a channel to enable support by the mechanism. 15. The load port as recited in claim 1, further comprising: an optical detector system for determining the position of each article located in the container. 16. A method of using a load port to access an article stored in a container having a container shell removably coupled to a container door, comprising: (a) raising a container support plate in a substantially vertical direction such that a container seated on a conveyor is lifted off of the conveyor; (b) raising the container support plate holding the container that includes the container shell into and through a shroud until the container shell is retained by a mechanism at a controllable height, the shroud defining an enclosure having an open top and an open bottom that does not extend to a bottom of the load port, and the raising moves the container shell into and through the open bottom and at least partially out of the open top; (c) uncoupling the container shell from the container door while maintaining the container door inside of the enclosure defined by the shroud; and (d) lowering the container support plate and the container door while maintaining the container door inside of the enclosure defined by the shroud, such that the container shell remains at the controllable height, until the article is moved into the container or moved out of the container that is accessible through an opening in the port plate of the load port. 17. The method as recited in claim 16, further including: (e) accessing the article through the opening with an article handling robot. 18. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the container comprises a bottom opening container. 19. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the container shell is uncoupled from the container door in said step (c) by a latch key extending from the container support plate. 20. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the container shell, which is retained at a controllable height in said step (b), creates a proximity seal with the shroud. 21. The method as recited in claim 17, further including: (f) raising the container support plate until the container door contacts the container shell; (g) coupling the container door to the container shell; and (h) lowering the container support plate until the container is placed back onto the conveyor. 22. A transfer system for moving a container, having a container shell removably coupled to a container door, throughout at least a portion of a fabrication facility and providing access to an article stored in the container, comprising: (a) transport system for movably supporting the container throughout at least a portion of the fabrication facility; (b)a load port, including: (i) a plate having an opening, the plate having a top portion and a bottom portion; (ii) a container support plate being adapted to remove a container from said transport system, said container support plate having a latch key for coupling and uncoupling the container door and the container shell; (iii) an arm connected to said container support plate; (iv) a drive assembly, coupled with said arm, for moving said container support plate substantially vertically; (c) a shroud affixed to a plate of the load port, such that the shroud defines an enclosure with the plate the shroud in a region of the opening of the plate and not extending to the bottom portion of the plate, the enclosure having an open top and bottom and has a dimension that enables the container having the container door and the container shell to pass through the enclosure, said shroud having a mechanism for retaining the container shell at a controllable height; and wherein the container shell retained by said mechanism, that is subsequently uncoupled from the container door within the enclosure by said latch key, remains located at said controllable height as said container support plate is lowered away from the container shell. 23. The system as recited in claim 22, wherein said transport system comprises a conveyor for directly loading the container into the enclosure defined by the shroud and provide access to articles into and out of the container through said load port. 24. The system as recited in claim 22, wherein the container shell, when retained by said mechanism, creates a proximity seal with said shroud. 25. The system as recited in claim 22, wherein said transport system comprises an automated guided vehicle. 26. The system as recited in claim 22, wherein said transport system comprises a rail guided vehicle. 27. The system as recited in claim 26, wherein said container support plate further translates horizontally between a first position and a second position. 28. The system as recited in claim 22, further including a port door for moving between a first position that allows an article to pass through said opening and a second position that covers said opening. 