A two layer sound deadening material is formed from pumpable material applied through a pair of extrusion heads mounted on a single mount. A robot, used in high speed mass production automotive assembly lines, moves the door panel relative to the stationary extrusion heads to allow the simultaneous application of the two layers onto the interior side of the door. The first layer is formed of a thermosetting composition containing epoxy, rubber and a catalyst and adheres directly to the door panel. The second layer is formed of a thermosetting composition containing an epoxy resin, a thermo plastic copolymer and a curative which will adhere directly to the first layer due to similar chemical structures. The second layer is positioned such that the edges thereof are inside of the corresponding edges of the first layer to prevent read through transmission of noise from the body or door panel.
Claims Having thus described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. In a vehicle body or door panel having a central panel portion including an interior side, an improved sound deadening material consisting essentially of: a first sound absorbing layer formed of a first flowable material applied on said interior side of said central panel portion by a first applicator having said first material pumped thereto from a remote source of said first material, said first sound absorbing material including a thermosetting composition containing an epoxy, a rubber material and a catalyst; and a second constraining layer formed of a second flowable material applied to said first sound absorbing layer by a second applicator having said second material pumped thereto from another remote source. 2. The vehicle body or door panel of claim 1 wherein said second constraining material includes a thermosetting composition containing an epoxy resin, thermo plastic copolymer and a curative, said constraining layer curing into a rigid member. 3. In a vehicle body or door panel having a central panel portion including an interior side, an improved sound deadening material comprising: a first sound absorbing layer formed of a first flowable material applied on said interior side of said central panel portion by a first applicator having said first material pumped thereto from a remote source of said first material; and a second constraining layer formed of a second flowable material applied to said first sound absorbing layer by a second applicator having said second material pumped thereto from another remote source, said second layer being formed with peripheral edges defining a peripheral boundary being located inside a corresponding peripheral boundary of said first layer such that said second layer does not directly contact said vehicle door panel. 4. The vehicle body or door panel of claim 3 wherein said first and second applicators are extrusion heads, said second extrusion head having a transverse width smaller than a corresponding transverse width of said first extrusion head so that said second layer is formed internally of said peripheral boundary of said first layer. 5. The vehicle body or door panel of claim 4 wherein said second layer cures into a rigid member constraining said first layer to deaden sounds transmitted by said vehicle body or door panel. 6. A sound deadening member attachable to a vehicle body or door panel comprising: a first sound absorbing layer formed of a first flowable material applied directly on an interior side of said door panel by a first applicator having said first material pumped thereto from a remote source of said first material, said first material includes a thermosetting composition containing an epoxy, a rubber material and a catalyst; and a second constraining layer formed of a second flowable material applied on top of said first sound absorbing layer by a second applicator having said second material pumped thereto from another remote source, said second constraining layer curing into a rigid member, said second layer being formed with peripheral edges defining a peripheral boundary being located inside a corresponding peripheral boundary of said first layer such that said second layer does not directly contact said vehicle door panel. 7. The sound deadening member of claim 6 wherein said epoxy is one or more members selected from the group consisting of glycidyl ether, bisphenol A, bisphenol F and novolac, said rubber material is one or more members selected from the group consisting of styrene-butadiene rubber, butadiene, epdm, nitrile, ethylene acrylic, butyl rubber or isoprene; and said catalyst is one or more members selected from the group consisting of dicyandiamide, zinc diacrylate and dicumylperoxide. 8. The sound deadening member of claim 6 wherein said second material is a thermosetting composition containing an epoxy resin, a thermo plastic copolymer and a curative. 9. The sound deadening member of claim 6 wherein said first and second applicators are extrusion heads supported on a common mounting head to permit a simultaneous application of said first and second layers while said vehicle door is moved relative to said mounting head. 10. The sound deadening member of claim 9 wherein said first extrusion head has a transverse width smaller than a corresponding transverse width of said first extrusion head to permit said first layer to be formed in a wider path on said vehicle door than said second layer. 11. The sound deadening member of claim 6 wherein said second layer is formed with a peripheral boundary, said first layer having an exposed portion extending around said peripheral boundary such that said second layer does not contact said vehicle door panel directly. 