A method for clinching pieces of metal plate, comprising the steps of: positioning two pieces of sheet metal (6a, 6b) in a clinching station (3), the two pieces of sheet metal (6a, 6b) being provided with at least one area of their edge whereon is applied a hot-curing resin, performing a clinching operation along the edge (16, 17) of said pieces (6a, 6b); and polymerising the resin by means of induction heating, in the same clinching station (3) by means of a heating device (19) which performs a localised heating of the clinched edges (16, 17).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for clinching pieces of metal plate, comprising the steps of: positioning two pieces of sheet metal in a clinching station, the clinching station including a support, a lifting device and a clinching die for supporting the two pieces of sheet metal during a clinching operation, the two pieces of sheet metal being provided with at least one area of their edges whereon is applied a hot-curing resin; maintaining the two pieces of sheet metal in the clinching die with a presser applying a force to the piece of sheet metal opposite the clinching die; performing a clinching operation by manipulating a clinching tool with a robotic arm, wherein the clinching tool is coupled to a wrist of the robotic arm, along the at least one area of the edges of said pieces; and polymerizing the resin by heating the clinched edges, wherein polymerizing comprises the steps of: lifting the pieces of sheet metal with the lifting device to a raised position above the clinching die at the end of the clinching operation; removing the clinching tool from the wrist; coupling an induction heating device to the wrist; and carrying out an induction heating operation in the clinching station with the induction heating device which performs a localized heating of the clinched edges when the two pieces of sheet metal are in the raised position with respect to the clinching die. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein an industrial robot is used to move the clinching tool along the entire perimeter of the pieces to be clinched, and the same industrial robot is used to move said heating device along the entire perimeter of the pieces. 3. Method as claimed in claim 2, wherein said industrial robot is programmed to perform tool change operations to replace the clinching tool with the heating device, and vice versa. 4. The method for clinching pieces of metal plate in claim 1, wherein carrying out an induction heating operation further comprises energizing a heating coil. 5. The method for clinching pieces of metal plate in claim 4, wherein energizing a heating coil further comprises supplying electric power through the industrial robot. 6. The method for clinching pieces of metal plate in claim 4, further comprising locating a portion of the heating coil parallel to one another on a top and a bottom side of the at least a portion of the clinched edges. 7. The method for clinching pieces of metal plate in claim 6, wherein the heating coil is C-shaped. 8. The method for clinching pieces of metal plate in claim 1, wherein the clinched edges form a portion of a vehicle door. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising placing the two pieces of sheet metal on the lifting device when the lifting device is in the raised position, then lowering the lifting device and performing the clinching operation. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising manipulating the presser with an arm attached to a central column. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the robotic arm is attached to a top of the central column. 12. A method for clinching pieces of metal plate, comprising the steps of: providing an installation for producing vehicle doors having a central column, at least one clinching station, a presser, and a robotic arm; lifting a bearing element from the interior of a clinching die to a raised position above the clinching die; placing two pieces of sheet metal on the bearing element when the bearing element is in the raised position; lowering the bearing element and thereby placing the two pieces of sheet metal onto the clinching die; moving the presser vertically into engagement with the uppermost piece of sheet metal, wherein the presser is coupled to and manipulated from the central column; applying a polymerizing resin to at least a portion of the perimeter edges of the two pieces of sheet metal; manipulating a clinching tool with a wrist coupled to the robotic arm in order to clinch the perimeter edges of the two pieces of sheet metal; lifting the bearing element and the two pieces of sheet metal back to the raised position; and polymerizing the resin by carrying out an induction heating operation to the polymerizing resin while the two pieces of sheet metal are in the raised position. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising removing the clinching tool from the wrist and coupling the induction heating device to the wrist automatically. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the robotic arm is coupled to and manipulating from a top of the central column. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising providing electric power to the clinching tool and the induction heating device through the robotic arm. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the induction heating device is a heating coil. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising locating two portions of the heating coil parallel to one another, wherein one portion is located above the two pieces of sheet metal and the other portion is located below the two pieces of sheet metal. 