Compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of C-reactive protein. The compositions comprise oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acid encoding C-reactive protein. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of C-reactive protein expression and for diagnosis and treatment of disease associated with expression of C-reactive protein are provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An antisense compound 15 to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding C-reactive protein, wherein said compound comprises a 15 nucleobase portion having at least 90% complementarity to at least a 15 nucleobase portion of nucleotides 1719 to 1738 of SEQ ID NO. 4. 2. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound has a nucleobase sequence that is at least 95% complementary to at least a 15 nucleobase portion of nucleotides 1719-1738 of SEQ ID NO: 4. 3. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound has a nucleobase sequence that is 100% complementary to at least a 15 nucleobase portion of nucleotides 1719-1738 of SEQ ID NO: 4. 4. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound comprises an antisense oligonucleotide. 5. The antisense compound of claim 4, wherein said antisense compound comprises a chimeric oligonucleotide. 6. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage, modified sugar moiety, or modified nucleobase. 7. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound comprises at least one 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 8. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound comprises at least one phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 9. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound comprises at least one 5-methylcytosine. 10. The antisense compound of claim 5, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide comprises a 2'-deoxynucleotide segment positioned between wing segments, each wing segment having two to five nucleotides comprising modified sugar moieties, wherein each internucleoside linkage of said chimeric oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage and wherein all cytidine residues are 5-methylcytidines. 11. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound is single-stranded. 12. An antisense compound 20 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding C-reactive protein, comprising: at least 16 consecutive nucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 205; a 5' terminus having two to four 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleotides; a 3' terminus having two to four 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleotides; and a 2'-deoxynucleotide portion twelve to sixteen nucleotides in length disposed between said 5' terminus and said 3' terminus. 13. The antisense compound of claim 12, wherein all internucleoside linkages are phosphorothioate. 14. The antisense compound of claim 12, wherein all cytidine residues are 5-methylcytidines. 15. The antisense compound of claim 12, wherein each terminus is two nucleotides in length and said 2'-deoxynucleotide portion is sixteen nucleobases in length. 16. The antisense compound of claim 12, wherein each terminus is three nucleotides in length and said 2'-deoxynucleotide portion is fourteen nucleobases in length. 17. The antisense compound of claim 12, wherein each terminus is four nucleotides in length and said 2'-deoxynucleotide portion is twelve nucleobases in length. 18. The antisense compound of claim 12, wherein said antisense compound has a nucleobase sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO: 205. 19. A method of treating an animal having a disease or condition treatable by reducing C-reactive protein comprising administering to said animal a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of the compound of claim 1 so that expression of C-reactive protein is inhibited. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is selected from the group consisting of: coronary artery disease, unstable angina, stroke, atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction, thrombosis, obesity, metabolic syndrome, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, acute coronary syndrome, and coronary artery stenting. 21. The method according to claim 19 wherein said animal is a human. 22. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is selected from the group consisting of: coronary artery disease, unstable angina, atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction, hyperlipidemia, and coronary artery stenting. 23. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is coronary artery disease. 24. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is unstable angina. 25. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is atherosclerosis. 26. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is myocardial infarction. 27. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is hyperlipidemia. 28. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is coronary artery stenting. 29. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is stroke. 30. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is thrombosis. 31. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is obesity. 32. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is metabolic syndrome. 33. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is diabetes. 34. The method according to claim 19, wherein said disease or condition is acute coronary syndrome. 35. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound comprises at least one bicyclic nucleic acid sugar moiety. 36. The antisense compound of claim 12, wherein said antisense compound comprises an antisense oligonucleotide. 37. An antisense oligonucleotide consisting the nucleobase sequence of SEQ ID NO: 205, having a 2'-deoxynucleotide portion fourteen nucleotides in length positioned between a 5' terminus and a 3' terminus, wherein said 5' terminus has three 2'-O-methoxyethylnucleotides, wherein said 3'terminus has three 2'-O-methoxyethylnucleotides, wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage, and wherein each cytosine is a 5-methylcytosine. 38. The antisense oligonucleotide of claim 37, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is in a pharmaceutically acceptable salt form. 39. A composition comprising the antisense oligonucleotide of claim 38 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. 40. The antisense oligonucleotide of claim 38, wherein the salt is a sodium salt. 41. The method of claim 19 wherein said antisense oligonucleotide consists of the nucleobase sequence of SEQ ID NO: 205, having a 2'-deoxynucleotide portion fourteen nucleotides in length positioned between a 5' terminus and a 3' terminus, wherein said 5' terminus has three 2'-O-methoxyethylnucleotides, wherein said 3' terminus has three 2'-O-methoxyethylnucleotides, wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage, and wherein each cytosine is a 5-methylcytosine. 42. The method of claim 41 wherein said antisense oligonucleotide is in a pharmaceutically acceptable salt form. 