A vacuum packaging system for transporting a plurality of medical containers including a tray that supports the medical containers and an air impervious flexible film defining an internal cavity. The air impervious flexible film completely surrounds the tray and the medical containers. The internal cavity is evacuated to a predetermined vacuum level below atmospheric pressure. A method for packaging the plurality of medical containers for transportation in the tray includes inserting the medical containers into the tray, inserting the tray filled with medical containers into the internal cavity, evacuating the internal cavity to a predetermined vacuum pressure and sealing the flexible film such that the predetermined vacuum pressure is generally maintained in the internal cavity.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for packaging a plurality of syringes for transportation in a tray within an evacuated internal cavity of an air impervious flexible film, and the tray including a lip, the method comprising the steps of: a) inserting the syringes into the tray by: a)(1) inserting a nesting plate into the tray such that a peripheral edge of the nesting plate is positioned on the lip; and a)(2) inserting the syringes into cylindrical sleeves in the nesting plate such that a top rim of the sleeves is in contact with a flange of the syringes; b) inserting the tray filled with the syringes into the internal cavity; c) evacuating the internal cavity to a predetermined vacuum pressure such that the flexible film surrounds and engages the tray and at least portions of the syringes; and d) sealing the flexible film such that the predetermined vacuum pressure is generally maintained in the internal cavity. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step prior to step (a) of: e) grasping one or more of the syringes with a mechanical arm as one of the syringes flows off of a syringe assembly line. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step after step (d) of: e) irradiating the sealed flexible film, the tray and the syringes. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps after step (d) of: e) transporting the sealed flexible film and the syringes; f) inspecting the flexible film to ensure that the film is engaging the tray and at least portions of the syringes indicating that the predetermined pressure is maintained within the internal cavity; g) breaking the flexible film to gain access to the syringes; h) removing the tray from the internal cavity; and i) removing the syringes from the tray for introduction onto an assembly line for the introduction of medical products into the syringes. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the syringes are inserted into the tray in step (a) in a series of rows. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: e) irradiating the sealed flexible film, the tray and the syringes following step (d); and f) introducing an inert purge gas into the evacuated internal cavity prior to step (c) to stabilize and prevent one of changes in chemical composition and discoloration of the syringes in step (e). 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: e) molding the syringes prior to step (a); f) robotically transporting the syringes to an inspection station prior to step (a); and g) irradiating the sealed and evacuated internal cavity and the syringes following step (d). 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: e) transporting the sealed and evacuated flexible film, the tray and the syringes to a filler; and f) opening the internal cavity by tearing the flexible film at a tear notch. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the predetermined vacuum pressure is approximately eight inches of mercury (8 in Hg) such that the flexible film surrounds and engages the tray and at least portions of the syringes in a reduced internal pressure condition and the flexible film generally holds the syringes in the tray without rubbing against each other or otherwise significantly moving during shipping. 10. A method for packaging a plurality of vials each including a head side and a based side for transportation in a tray within an evacuated internal cavity of an air impervious flexible film, the method comprising the steps of: a) inserting each of the vials into the tray with their head side proximate a floor of the tray; b) inserting the tray filled with the vials and a rigid sheet into the internal cavity; c) evacuating the internal cavity to a predetermined vacuum pressure such that the flexible film surrounds and engages at least the rigid sheet and the tray; d) sealing the flexible film such that the predetermined vacuum pressure is generally maintained in the internal cavity; e) transporting the sealed and evacuated flexible film, the rigid sheet, the tray and the vials to a filler; f) opening the internal cavity by tearing the flexible film at a tear notch; g) moving the tray, the vials and the rigid sheet out of the flexible film; h) inverting the rigid sheet, vials and tray; i) placing the rigid sheet, vials and tray on a support surface such that the base sides of the vials are resting on the rigid sheet; j) moving the rigid sheet from beneath the base sides such that the base sides are resting on the support surface; and k) moving the tray vertically away from the vials. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step prior to step (a) of: l) grasping one or more of the vials with a mechanical arm as one of the vials flows off of a vial assembly line. 12. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step after step (d) of: l) irradiating the sealed flexible film, the tray and the vials. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein the vials are inserted into the tray in step (a) in a series of rows. 14. The method of claim 10 further comprising the steps of: l) irradiating the sealed flexible film, the tray and the vials following step (d); and m) introducing an inert purge gas into the evacuated internal cavity prior to step (c) to stabilize and prevent one of changes in chemical composition and discoloration of the vials in step (e). 15. The method of claim 10 further comprising the steps of: l) molding the vials prior to step (a); m) robotically transporting the vials to an inspection station prior to step (a); and n) irradiating the sealed and evacuated internal cavity and the vials following step (d). 16. The method of claim 10 wherein the predetermined vacuum pressure is approximately eight inches of mercury (8 in Hg) such that the flexible film surrounds and engages the tray and at least portions of the vials in a reduced internal pressure condition and the flexible film generally holds the vials in the tray without rubbing against each other or otherwise significantly moving during shipping. 