Some embodiments of the present invention include protecting a photomask from particle defects by heating the photomask to initiate a thermophoretic force.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising; disposing a photomask on a photomask holder; and applying a radiation to the photomask, wherein the radiation heats the photomask to a temperature greater than a temperature of a surrounding gas to create a thermophoretic force to repel particles, wherein the photomask holder comprises a carrier, at least a portion of the carrier is substantially transparent to the radiation, and the radiation is applied through the portion of the carrier that is substantially transparent to the radiation. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: removing the photomask from the carrier, wherein the photomask remains at a temperature greater than a temperature of a surrounding gas. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the carrier comprises at least one of quartz, glass, plastic, or calcium fluoride. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the photomask comprises an EUV photomask. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the EUV photomask comprises a Molybdenum and Silicon multilayer and a metal absorber layer. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the photomask comprises at least one of Silicon, Molybdenum, Tantalum Nitride, or Tantalum Germanium. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the radiation comprises at least one of pulsed laser light or continuous wave laser light. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the temperature greater than the temperature of the surrounding gas is about 1 to 5 degrees Celsius greater than the temperature of the surrounding gas, and the surrounding gas has a pressure of about 1 atmosphere. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the temperature greater than the temperature of the surrounding gas is about 10 to 15 degrees Celsius greater than the temperature of the surrounding gas, and the surrounding gas has a pressure of about 10 to 15 millitorrs. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the radiation has a wavelength of about 150 to 1000 nm. 