An apparatus that automatically captures, stores and analyzes images of crystallization experiments contained in a number of crystallization plates. The apparatus includes a plate nest capable of accommodating protein crystallization plates of a plurality of different types, image acquisition optics, including an objective lens and an image capturing device, for focusing an image of a crystallization well, a light source including a bright field illumination device and a dark field illumination device, a nest positioning controller for moving the position of the plate nest with respect to the image acquisition optics to align various selected wells with said objective lens for imaging of the content of the wells. A database stores experiment information associated with each of the crystallization plates, the experiment information including identification of specific crystal forming parameter values, each of the crystallization plates is identified in said database by a unique identification code. A crystallization imaging controller controls crystallization imaging by retrieving the experiment information for each crystallization plate inserted into the apparatus, and controlling the nest positioning controller and the image acquisition optics in accordance with the retrieved experiment information. The apparatus captures multiple images of each crystal site using different light source and polarization conditions, and processes the multiple images to form extended fused images of each crystal site.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus that automatically captures stores and analyzes images of crystallization experiments contained in a plurality of crystallization plates, comprising: a plate nest capable of accommodating protein crystallization plates of a plurality of different types, said plates each including a plurality of crystallization wells each including a particular crystallization experiment; image acquisition optics, including an objective lens and an image capturing device, for focusing an image of a crystallization well positioned under said objective lens and electronically capturing said focused image; a light source including a bright field illumination device and a dark field illumination device, each of said bright field and dark field illumination devices being independently energized to introduce light into a crystal image well to enable capture of separate bright field and dark field images of said crystal image well by said image acquisition optics; a nest positioning controller for moving the position of said plate nest with respect to said image acquisition optics to align various selected wells with said objective lens for imaging of the content of said wells; a database for storing experiment information associated with each of said plurality of crystallization plates, said experiment information including identification of specific crystal forming parameter values, and wherein each of said plurality of crystallization plates is identified in said database by a unique identification code; and a crystallization imaging controller for controlling crystallization imaging by retrieving said experiment information for each crystallization plate inserted into said apparatus, and controlling said nest positioning controller and said image acquisition optics in accordance with said retrieved experiment information. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said crystallization experiments comprise protein crystallization experiments, and said crystallization imaging plates each contain protein samples combined with varying amounts of protein crystallization inducing catalyst material. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a transmitter polarization filter for polarizing light from said light source to a crystal image well to provide a polarized image of said crystal image well for capture by said image acquisition optics. 4. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said experiment information includes polarization angle information, and said crystallization imaging controller controls the polarization angle of said transmitter polarization filter in accordance with said polarization angle information that is from the retrieved experiment information. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said experiment information includes multiple polarization angles for at least one crystal image well, and said crystallization imaging controller controls said transmitter polarization filter and said image acquisition optics to capture multiple images of said crystal image well in accordance with said multiple polarization angle information that is retrieved. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein multiple images of individual crystal image wells captured by said image acquisition optics under varying lighting and/or focusing conditions are processed for forming a single fused image containing partial data from at least two of said multiple images. 7. An apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising an image capture device comprising a camera, said image acquisition optics further including a color filter for enabling true color images to be obtained using said camera, and wherein said color filter also functions as an analyzer polarization filter operating in conjunction with said transmitter polarization filter to form a polarization system for allowing polarized light from said crystallization plate to be imaged. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus analyzes light attenuation data from said image acquisition optics for an image well obtained over a predetermined period of time to calculate a turbidity value for said image well. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus analyzes light attenuation data from a turbidity detection light detector for an image well obtained over a predetermined period of time to calculate a turbidity value for said image well. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein crystallization plates are loaded and unloaded into said plate nest by a robotic plate loader/unloader. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said plate nest further comprises an automatic plate centering cam mechanism that aligns a plate inserted into said plate nest into an appropriate alignment position subsequent to insertion of said plate into said plate nest. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said plate nest further comprises an automatic plate alignment mechanism that automatically aligns an inserted plate. 13. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an image capture device further comprising a CCD (charge-coupled device) camera, said image acquisition optics further including a color filter for enabling true color images to be obtained using said CCD camera. 14. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said nest positioning controller moves said plate nest in X and Y axis directions in a plane perpendicular to said objective lens, and further moves said plate nest in a Z axis direction toward and away from said objective lens, said apparatus further comprising a Z axis pressure sensor for sensing the presence of a crystallization plate against said image acquisition optics and transmitting a signal to said nest positioning controller to cause said nest positioning controller to stop movement of said plate nest toward said objective lens in said Z axis upon detection of the presence of said crystallization plate. 15. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said crystallization plates comprise SBS type plates. 16. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said crystallization plates comprise Linbro type plates. 17. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said bright field illumination device comprises a plurality of light-emitting diodes. 18. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said dark field illumination device comprises a plurality of light-emitting diodes. 19. An apparatus that automatically captures, stores and analyzes images of crystallization experiments contained in a plurality of crystallization plates, comprising: a plate nest capable of accommodating protein crystallization plates of a plurality of different types, said plates each including a plurality of crystallization wells each including a particular crystallization experiment; image acquisition optics, including an objective lens and an image capturing device, for focusing an image of a crystallization well positioned under said objective lens and electronically capturing said focused image; a light source including a bright field illumination device and a dark field illumination device, each of said bright field and dark field illumination devices being independently energized to introduce light into a crystal image well to enable capture of separate bright field and dark field images of said crystal image well by said image acquisition optics; a transmitter polarization filter located between said light source and said plate nest, for polarizing light from said light source at a desired polarization angle; said image acquisition optics further including an analyzer polarization filter operating in conjunction with said transmitter polarization filter as a polarization system for allowing polarized light from said crystallization plate to be imaged; wherein multiple images of individual crystal image wells captured by said image acquisition optics under varying lighting and/or focusing conditions are processed for forming a single fused image containing partial data from at least two of said multiple images. 20. An apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said bright field illumination device comprises a plurality of light-emitting diodes. 21. An apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said dark field illumination device comprises a plurality of light-emitting diodes. 22. A method of analyzing images of crystallization experiments contained in a plurality of crystallization wells, comprising the steps of: selectively moving a position of a plate nest with respect to image acquisition optics to align various selected wells with an objective lens for imaging contents of the wells, wherein the plate nest accommodates for protein crystallization plates of a plurality of different types, said plates include a plurality of crystallization wells each including a particular crystallization experiment; illuminating a plurality of crystallization experiments within said plurality of wells using a bright field illumination device to obtain a bright field illumination of said plates and capturing an image of each of said plurality of wells under bright field illumination; illuminating a plurality of crystallization experiments within said plurality of wells using a dark field illumination device to obtain a dark field illumination of said plates and capturing an image of each of said plurality of wells under dark field illumination; wherein said image acquisition optics, including an objective lens and an image capturing device, focuses the images of the plurality of wells under the objective lens and electronically captures images of the plurality of wells; and processing said images of said plurality of wells under bright and dark field illumination to determine crystallization results of said crystallization experiment. 23. A method as set forth in claim 22, further comprising the steps of illuminating said plurality of crystallization wells using polarized light and capturing images of said plurality of wells under polarized light illumination, and wherein said processing step further comprises processing said polarized light images. 24. A method as set forth in claim 23, wherein said processing step comprises the step of fusing said bright field, dark field, and polarized light images according to a data fusing algorithm. 25. A method as set forth in claim 22, wherein said processing step comprises the step of fusing said bright field and dark field images according to a data fusing algorithm. 