A battery powered sensing device for diagnosing a processing system and method for using the same are provided. The support platform generally has physical characteristics, such as size, profile height, mass, flexibility and/or strength, substantially similar to those of the substrates that are to be processed in the processing system, so the sensor device can be transferred through the processing system in a manner similar to the manner in which production substrates are transferred through the processing system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for obtaining information from within a processing system, the apparatus comprising: a battery powered sensing device sized for transfer between a central transfer chamber and a vacuum processing chamber of the processing system by a substrate transfer robot, wherein the device is configured for obtaining information of a condition within the processing system. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the device is sized to pass through a slit valve separating the central transfer chamber and the processing chamber. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the information provided by the device is indicative of the position of the sensing device within the processing system. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensing device is configured to provide optical information. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensing device is configured to provide inclination information. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensing device is configured to provide acceleration information. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensing device is configured to provide temperature information. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a substrate-sized support platform having the sensing device coupled thereto. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising: a rechargeable battery coupled to the support platform and to the sensing device. 10. An apparatus for obtaining information from within a processing system, the apparatus comprising: a support platform adapted for transfer between a substrate transfer robot and a substrate support structure in a vacuum processing chamber of the processing system; a sensing device coupled to the support platform; and a battery coupled to the support platform and to the sensing device. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the battery is rechargeable. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the support platform, sensing device and battery have a combined size configured to pass through a slit valve separating the central transfer chamber and the processing chamber. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the sensing device provides at least one of optical information, inclination information, robot operational information, distance information, electrostatic chuck performance information, magnetic information, acceleration information or temperature information. 14. A method of obtaining information from within a processing system, the method comprising: robotically moving a battery powered sensing device through a slit valve disposed between a central transfer chamber and a vacuum processing chamber of a processing system; and obtaining, via the sensing device, information of a condition within the processing system. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising removing the device from the processing chamber. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein obtaining further comprises: obtaining information relating to temperature within the processing system. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein obtaining further comprises: obtaining information relating to motion of the support platform within processing system. 18. The method of claim 14 further comprising: transferring the information to a controller disposed outside the processing system. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein obtaining further comprises: obtaining information relating to at least one of optical information, inclination information, robot operational information, distance information, electrostatic chuck performance information, magnetic information, acceleration information or temperature information. 20. The method of claim 14 further comprising recharging the battery. 21. The method of claim 14, further comprising processing a substrate in the processing system based on the information. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein processing the substrate comprises at least one of physical vapor deposition (PVD), chemical vapor deposition (CVD), and etching. 