Implementations of the present invention relate to a method and a corresponding device for shaping a workpiece, in which the lifting of the workpiece from the tool after a shaping process is automated. One implementation of the method relates to (a) placing the workpiece in a shaping position on a first tool of the shaping machine, (b) moving the tools of the shaping machine toward one another, (c) shaping the workpiece between the tools, (d) subsequently moving the tools away from one another, (e) identifying a triggering time when the relative motion of the tools has reached a reference position.,(f) determining a lifting time, which may be a function of the triggering time, and (g) initiating a lifting motion of the workpiece from the first tool by at least one handling device at lifting time.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: placing a workpiece in a shaping position on a first of at least two tools of a shaping machine, wherein at least one handling device places the workpiece in its shaping position on the first tool; moving the tools of the shaping machine toward one another; shaping the workpiece between the tools, wherein at least one handling device securely holds the workpiece in its shaping position between the tools during shaping; moving the tools subsequently away from one another; detecting a triggering time when the relative position of the tools has reached a predetermined reference position during the relative motion of the tools toward one another; lifting the workpiece from a first tool of the at least two tools utilizing at least one handling device beginning at a lifting time; and selecting the lifting time as a function of the triggering time. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein determining the lifting time for at least one handling device is conducted so that the lifting time does not occur before a shaping time, when the shaping of the workpiece between the tools is concluded, or before a reversing time, when the direction of the relative motion of the tools with respect to one another reverses. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein selecting or determining the lifting time for at least one handling device is conducted so that the lifting time occurs a predetermined time difference after at least one of the shaping time and the reversing time. 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein the time difference between the lifting time and the shaping time is selected from at least one of between 0 ms and 300 ms and equal to or less than three-fourths of the time for the tools to move apart. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein the time difference between the lifting time and the shaping time is selected from at least one of between 0 ms and 100 ms and equal to or less than one-fourth of the time for the tools to move apart. 6. A method according to claim 5, wherein the time difference between the lifting time and the shaping time is selected from at least one of between 0 ms and 50 ms maximum and equal to or less than one-eighth of the time for the tools to move apart. 7. A method according to claim 4, wherein the time difference between the lifting time and the shaping time is selected as a function of a predetermined tool contact time. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein one of the at least two tools moves relative to an external reference system, and the other of the at least two tools remains stationary with respect to the external reference system. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein the workpiece is shaped in at least two shaping steps, each shaping step utilizing the same tools to shape the workpiece. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein, during shaping of the workpiece, the workpiece is lifted from the first tool by at least one handling device after an initial amount of shaping and is then repositioned on the first tool in the shaping position as part of subsequent shaping and to allow for ventilation by a blower. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein the workpiece is shaped in at least two shaping steps between different tools or tool regions, the workpiece being lifted from the first tool by at least one handling device after one shaping step and is then positioned on the first tool in another tool region or placed in another tool in the shaping position for the subsequent shaping step. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein after the shaping step or subsequent shaping step and after being lifted from the tool or tool region, each workpiece is conveyed by at least one handling device to a depositing device and is deposited at the depositing device. 13. A method according to claim 11, wherein at least one control device is provided which controls the motions of at least one handling device, which determines the lifting time as a function of the triggering time and initiates a lifting motion of the handling device at the determined lifting time. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein at least one position detection device is provided which sends a trigger signal to the control device at the triggering time, when the relative position of the tools reaches the reference position, and wherein the control device determines the lifting time as a function of the input time of the trigger signal. 15. A method according to claim 14, wherein: the position detection device comprises a position switch which is associated with or located at a reference position, whereby the position detection device changes its switching state when actuated by one of the two tools; and a change in a switching state of the position switch is used as a trigger signal or triggering time. 16. A method according to claim 13, further comprising at least one position detection device configured to: (i) measure the relative position of the two tools with respect to one another continuously and/or at specified measuring points; and (ii) send one of a corresponding position measurement signal and a corresponding position measurement value to the control device, wherein the control device is configured to: (a) compare the one of the position measurement signal and the position measurement value to one of a reference signal or reference value corresponding to the reference position; (b) use the agreement of the position measurement signal with the reference signal, or the position measurement value with the reference value, as a triggering time; and (c) determine the lifting time based on the triggering time. 17. A method according to claim 13, wherein the relative speed and/or relative acceleration of the two tools is determined by the reference position of the two tools, and the lifting time is determined from the triggering time as a function of at least one of the determined relative speed and the relative acceleration of the two tools. 18. A method according to claim 13, wherein the lifting time is determined from the triggering time by allowing a predetermined delay time to elapse with respect to the triggering time. 19. A method according to claim 13, wherein: at a starting time, the control device sends a start signal to at least one handling device; and after receiving the start signal, the at least one handling device begins a lifting motion and lifts the workpiece at the lifting time. 20. A method according to claim 19, wherein: the control device determines the starting time for the start signal by one of allowing time to elapse or counting a predetermined delay time with respect to the triggering time; and the lifting time occurs relative to the starting time in a well-defined manner. 21. A method according to claim 20, wherein the lifting time is determined relative to the starting time by adding the signal propagation time and signal processing time of the start signal for the handling device. 22. A method according to claim 18, wherein the delay time is predetermined as a function of the progression of at least one relative motion variable in the relative motion of the tools with respect to one another, and/or as a function of an adjusted or adjustable shaping energy. 23. A method for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: placing a workpiece in a shaping position on a first of at least two tools of a shaping machine; moving the tools of the shaping machine toward one another; shaping the workpiece between the tools, wherein the shaping energy for shaping the workpiece, or a variable correlated with the shaping energy, is adjustable to one of at least two different values; subsequently moving the two tools away from one another; wherein a triggering time is detected when the relative position of the tools has reached a predetermined reference position during the relative motion of the tools toward one another; beginning to lift the workpiece from the first tool at a lifting time utilizing at least one handling device; and determining the lifting time as a function of the triggering time; wherein: the reference position for the tools is determined by the progression over time of the relative motion of both tools; the reference position for the tools is set as a function of one of the adjusted value of the shaping energy and the variable correlated with the shaping energy; and the reference position for the tools is determined so that one or both of the sum of the minimum signal or data propagation times, and the signal or data processing times necessary for determining the lifting time from the triggering time, is less than the time interval between the lifting time and the triggering time. 24. A method according to claim 23, wherein the reference position for the tools is determined by one of the shaping energy for shaping the workpiece and a variable correlated with the shaping energy. 25. A method according to claim 23, wherein the reference position corresponds to the relative position of the tools at their distance farthest apart from one another. 26. A method according to claim 23, wherein the reference position is between the relative position of the tools at their distance farthest apart from one another and the closest relative position of the tools. 27. A method according to claim 23, wherein the workpiece is handled at least during lifting by at least two handling devices, the motions and positions of the handling devices being automatically controlled or regulated by mutual coordination. 28. A method according to claim 27, wherein the lifting time is learned or adaptively determined by determining the relative position of the tools at the lifting time and adjusting the lifting time to a desired value. 29. A method according to claim 28, wherein the lifting time is adaptively determined by one or both of adapting the delay time to the triggering time and adjusting the reference position. 30. A method according to claim 23, wherein scale material is blown from under one or both of the lifted tool and the first tool utilizing at least one blower. 31. A method according to claim 29, wherein a switch-on time for the blower is determined as a function of the triggering time. 32. A method according to claim 31, wherein the switch-on time occurs after the lifting time. 33. A method according to claim 30, wherein a forging hammer, screw press, or crank press is provided as the shaping machine. 34. A device for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: a) at least one shaping machine having at least two tools that are movable toward and away from one another for shaping a workpiece which is placed on a first of the tools in a predetermined shaping position between the tools; b) at least one position detection device for detecting a triggering time when the relative motion of the tools has reached a predetermined reference position; c) at least one handling device for handling the workpiece, wherein: at least one handling device places the workpiece in a shaping position on one of the at least two tools; and at least one handling device securely holds the workpiece in its shaping position between the tools during shaping; and d) at least one control device for controlling or regulating the motions and positions of the handling device(s); e) the control device determining a lifting time as a function of the triggering time and actuating at least one handling device in such a way that at least one handling device begins to lift the workpiece from the first of the tools at the lifting time. 35. A device according to claim 34, wherein each handling device comprises: a) at least one gripping mechanism having at least two gripping elements that are movable relative to one another for gripping the workpiece, b) at least one support apparatus to which the gripping mechanism can be fastened, and c) at least one conveying device for conveying the support apparatus along with the gripping mechanism. 36. A device according to claim 34, wherein the support apparatus and the conveying device in a flexible state are connected to one another in a flexible manner, and wherein the support apparatus and the conveying device in a rigid state are effectively one or both of connected to one another in a rigid manner and positioned relative to one another in a rigid manner, in at least one or both of one three-dimensional direction and each rotational position of one or both of the gripping mechanism and the gripping element(s). 37. A device according to claim 35, wherein the support apparatus and the conveying device are connected to one another by at least one connecting element, and wherein the connecting device in the flexible state is flexible and in the rigid state is rigid. 38. A device according to claim 35, wherein: the support apparatus and the conveying device are connected to one another by at least one flexible element, wherein: when the support apparatus and the conveying device are in the flexible state, the support apparatus and the conveying device are connected only via the flexible element; and when the support apparatus and the conveying device are in the rigid state, the support apparatus and the conveying device are effectively supported relative to one another by at least one support device which bridges the flexible element. 39. A device according to claim 34, wherein the tools of the shaping machine comprise shaping forging die tools for combined shaping of the workpiece. 40. A device according to claim 34, wherein the shaping machine comprises one or more of a forging hammer, screw press, or crank press. 41. A device according to claim 34, having at least one blower for blowing scale material from under one or both of the lifted tool and the first tool. 42. A device according to claim 41, wherein each blower is switched on by the control device at a switch-on time, and the control device determines the switch-on time as a function of the triggering time. 43. A device according to claim 42, wherein switch-on time occurs after the lifting time. 44. A device according to claim 34, wherein the detecting of a triggering time when the relative position of the tools has reached a predetermined reference position is conducted during the relative motion of the tools toward one another. 45. A method for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: placing a workpiece in a shaping position on a first of at least two tools of a shaping machine; moving the tools of the shaping machine toward one another; shaping the workpiece between the tools; moving the tools subsequently away from one another; detecting a triggering time when the relative position of the tools has reached a predetermined reference position; lifting the workpiece from a first tool of the at least two tools utilizing at least one handling device beginning at a lifting time; and selecting the lifting time as a function of the triggering time; wherein the shaping machine comprises at least one position detection device configured to: (i) measure the relative position of the two tools with respect to one another continuously and/or at specified measuring points; and (ii) send one of a corresponding position measurement signal and a corresponding position measurement value to the control device, wherein the control device is configured to: (d) compare the one of the position measurement signal and the position measurement value to one of a reference signal or reference value corresponding to the reference position; (e) use the agreement of the position measurement signal with the reference signal, or the position measurement value with the reference value, as a triggering time; and (f) determine the lifting time based on the triggering time. 46. A device for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: at least one shaping machine having at least two tools that are movable toward and away from one another for shaping a workpiece which is placed on a first of the tools in a predetermined shaping position between the tools; at least one position detection device for detecting a triggering time when the relative motion of the tools has reached a predetermined reference position; at least one handling device for handling the workpiece; at least one control device for controlling or regulating the motions and positions of the handling device(s); the control device determining a lifting time as a function of the triggering time and actuating at least one handling device in such a way that at least one handling device begins to lift the workpiece from the first of the tools at the lifting time; and at least one blower for blowing scale material from under one or both of the lifted tool and the first tool; wherein: each blower is switched on by the control device at a switch-on time; the control device determines the switch-on time as a function of the triggering time; and wherein switch-on time occurs after the lifting time. 