A slide holder (6) for use with a microscope to accurately locate a slide (19) in position under the microscope has a pivotal lever (13) having a clamping and locating portion (14) with abutments (15) and (16) which bear on respective edges of the slide when it is in the clamped position. Further abutments (10) on a fixed angular plate (9) locate the other edges of the slide. The slide holder is adapted for mounting on a slide translation stage of a slide loader (1) which includes a stationary sensor block (20) positioned to engage the lever (13) when the slide holder moves from its inspection or scanning position under the microscope to a loading/unloading position. The slide translation stage includes a robotic head for lifting and depositing slides and the translation stage includes a bar code reader to read a bar code on the slide.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An automated microscope slide loading apparatus comprising: a slide holder comprising slide clamping and locating means including a clamping arm with slide engaging abutments and having an open position for loading and unloading a slide and a closed position for clamping a slide into a fixed position on the holder for inspection or scanning by a microscope wherein, the clamping and locating means further comprises engagement means remote from the clamping arm for engagement with a slide loader such that the clamping arm is moved from the closed position to the open position during movement of the slide holder away from an inspection or scanning position of the slide holder under a microscope to a slide loading and unloading position of the slide holder at a distance from the microscope. 2. An automated microscope slide loading apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the slide loader further comprises a housing for a plurality of slide supporting trays; and transfer means for automated transfer of slides to and from a selected tray and the slide holder. 3. An automated microscope slide loading apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein the transfer means is mounted within the slide loader for independent horizontal and vertical movements during slide transfer to and from the selected tray and the slide holder. 4. An automated microscope slide loading apparatus as defined in claim 3, wherein the transfer means includes a robot head moved in response to a command for enabling automated lifting of slides from the selected tray and depositing of slides on the slide holder. 5. An automated microscope slide loading apparatus as defined in claim 2 wherein the transfer means includes a barcode reader for reading a bar code applied in relation to each of the slides thereby enabling the slide loader to identify and track slides to ensure that the slides are monitored and validated as they are transferred to and from a selected tray and slide holder. 6. An automated microscope slide loading apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the transfer means includes a robot head moved in response to a command for enabling automated lifting of slides from the selected tray and depositing of slides on the slide holder, and wherein the barcode reader is supported by and moves with the robot head. 