The present invention relates to eukaryotic host cells having modified oligosaccharides which may be modified further by heterologous expression of a set of glycosyltransferases, sugar transporters and mannosidases to become host-strains for the production of mammalian, e.g., human therapeutic glycoproteins. The invention provides nucleic acid molecules and combinatorial libraries which can be used to successfully target and express mammalian enzymatic activities such as those involved in glycosylation to intracellular compartments in a eukaryotic host cell. The process provides an engineered host cell which can be used to express and target any desirable gene(s) involved in glycosylation. Host cells with modified oligosaccharides are created or selected. N-glycans made in the engineered host cells have a Man.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 core structure which may then be modified further by heterologous expression of one or more enzymes, e.g., glycosyltransferases, sugar transporters and mannosidases, to yield human-like glycoproteins. For the production of therapeutic proteins, this method may be adapted to engineer cell lines in which any desired glycosylation structure may be obtained.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for producing a recombinant glycoprotein comprising complex or hybrid N-glycans in a yeast or filamentous fungus host cell that does not display a 1,6 mannosyltransferase activity, the method comprising the step of introducing into the host cell a nucleic acid encoding an alpha-1,2 mannosidase enzyme, the enzyme comprising: a) an alpha-1,2 mannosidase catalytic domain; fused to b) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the enzyme to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell where the enzyme functions optimally; whereby, upon passage of the recombinant glycoprotein through the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell, greater than 30 mole percent of the N-glycan structures attached thereto are converted to a Man.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoform that can serve as a substrate for additional glycosylation enzymes so that the glycoprotein comprising complex or hybrid N-glycans can be formed. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least 10 percent of the Man.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 produced within the host cell is a productive substrate for GnTI in vivo and is thereby converted to GlcNAcMan.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the alpha-1 ,2 mannosidase catalytic domain selected for optimal activity in the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the alpha-1,2 mannosidase enzyme is selected to have optimal activity at a pH of between about 5.1 to about 8.0. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of introducing into the host cell one or more additional nucleic acids encoding one or more additional enzymes selected from the group consisting of mannosidases, glycosyltransferases and glycosidases. 6. The method of claim 5, whereby, upon passage of the glycoprotein through the ER and Golgi apparatus of the host cell, the glycoprotein comprises one or more sugars selected from the group consisting of GlcNAc, galactose, sialic acid and fucose. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the host cell includes nucleic acids encoding a mannosidase II, a GlcNAc transferase I, a GlcNAc transferase II, a galactose transferase, and a sialic acid transferase and whereby, upon passage of the glycoprotein through the ER and Golgi apparatus of the host cell, the glycoprotein comprises at least one oligosaccharide branch comprising the structure NeuNAc-Gal-GlcNAc-Man. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of Pichia pastoris, Pichia finlandica, Pichia trehalophila, Pichia koclamae, Pichia membranaefaciens, Pichia opuntiae, Pichia thermotolerans, Pichia salictaria, Pichia guercuum, Pichia pijperi, Pichia stiptis, Pichia methanolica, Pichia sp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomyces sp., Hansenula polymorpha, Kluyveromyces sp., Kluyveromyces lactis, Candida albicans, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus oryzae, Trichoderma reesei, Chrysosporium lucknowense, Fusarium sp., Fusarium gramineum, Fusarium venenatum and Neurospora crassa. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the host further lacks the activity of one or more enzymes selected from the group consisting of mannosyltransferases and phosphomannosyltransferases. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the host lacks an enzyme activity with respect to an N-glycan on a glycoprotein, the activity selected from the group consisting of 1,3 mannosyltransferase and 1,2 mannosyltransferase. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the host is an och1 mutant of P. pastoris. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the host expresses GnTI and UDP-GlcNAc transporter enzymes. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the host expresses a UDP- or GDP-specific diphosphatase. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of isolating the recombinant glycoprotein produced by the host, subsequent its passage through the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising the step of, subsequent to its isolation, subjecting the isolated glycoprotein to at least one further glycosylation reaction in vitro. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of introducing into the host a nucleic acid molecule encoding one or more additional mannosidase enzymes involved in the production of Man.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 from Man.sub.8GlcNAc.sub.2 or Man.sub.9GlcNAc.sub.2. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein at least one of the additional encoded mannosidase enzymes has optimal activity at a pH of between about 5.1 to about 8.0. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the additional mannosidase enzyme has optimal activity at a pH of between about 5.5 and about 7.5. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the .alpha.-1,2-mannosidase is from mouse, human, Lepidoptera , Aspergillus nidulans, or Bacillus sp., C.elegans, D.melanogaster, P. citrinum or X. laevis. 20. The method of claim 5, wherein at least one enzyme of said one or more additional enzymes is targeted to a subcellular location by forming a fusion protein comprising a catalytic domain of a glycosylation enzyme and a cellular targeting signal peptide, wherein the fusion protein is encoded by at least one genetic construct formed by the in-frame ligation of a DNA fragment encoding a cellular targeting signal peptide with a DNA fragment encoding a catalytic domain having enzymatic activity. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the encoded targeting signal peptide is selected from a member of the group consisting of: membrane-bound proteins of the ER or Golgi, retrieval signals, Type II membrane proteins, Type I membrane proteins, membrane spanning nucleotide sugar transporters, mannosidases, sialyltransferases, glucosidases, mannosyltransferases and phospho-mannosyltransferases. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein the catalytic domain encodes a glycosidase, a glycosyltransferase activity selected from a member of the group consisting of mannosidases, GnTI, GnTII, GnTIII, GnTIV, GnT V, GnT VI, GalT, Fucosyltransferase and Sialyltransferase. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the catalytic domain encodes a mannosidase selected from the group consisting of C. elegans mannosidase IA, C. elegans mannosidase IB, D. melanogaster mannosidase IA, H sapiens mannosidase IB, P. citrinum mannosidase I, mouse mannosidase IA, mouse mannosidase IB, A. nidulans mannosidase IA, A. nidulans mannosidase IB, A. nidulans mannosidase IC, mouse mannosidase II, C. elegans mannosidase II, H sapiens mannosidase II, and mannosidase III. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the host expresses one or more enzymes selected from: GnTI, a UDP-specific diphosphotase, a GDP-specific diphosphatase, and UDP-GlcNAc transporter. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the host cell comprises one or more substrates selected from UDP-GlcNAc, UDP-Gal, CMP-NANA and GDP-Fuc. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein said host cell further comprises a nucleic acid encoding an enzyme comprising: a) a GlcNAc transferase I catalytic domain; fused to b) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the catalytic domain to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein said host cell further comprises a nucleic acid encoding an enzyme comprising: a) a manosidase II catalytic domain; fused to b) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the catalytic domain to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein said host cell further comprises a nucleic acid encoding an enzyme comprising: a) a GlcNAc transferase II catalytic domain; fused to b) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the catalytic domain to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell. 29. A method for producing a recombinant glycoprotein comprising N-glycan GlcNAcMan.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoforms in a yeast or filamentous fungus host cell which produces N-glycan structures having greater than 30 mole percent of a Man.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoform that can serve as a substrate for GlcNAc transferase I in vivo, the method comprising the step of introducing into the host cell a nucleic acid encoding a GlcNAc transferase I enzyme, the enzyme comprising: a) a GIcNAc transferase I catalytic domain; fused to b) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the catalytic domain to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell; whereby, upon passage of the recombinant glycoprotein through the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell, a recombinant glycoprotein comprising a GlcNAcMan.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoform is produced. 30. A method for producing a recombinant glycoprotein comprising N-glycan GIcNAcMan.sub.3GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoforms in a yeast or filamentous fungus host cell which produces N-glycan structures having greater than 30 mole percent of a Man.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoform that are converted in vivo to a GlcNAcMan.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoform by GlcNAc transferase I, the method comprising the step of introducing into the host cell a nucleic acid encoding a mannosidase II enzyme, the enzyme comprising: a) a mannosidase II catalytic domain; fused to b) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the catalytic domain to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell; whereby, upon passage of the recombinant glycoprotein through the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell, a recombinant glycoprotein comprising a GlcNAcMan.sub.3GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoform is produced. 31. A method for producing a recombinant glycoprotein comprising N-glycan GlcNAc.sub.2Man.sub.3GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoforms in a yeast or filamentous fungus host cell which produces N-glycan structures having greater than 30 mole percent of a Man.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoform that are converted in vivo to a GlcNAcMan.sub.3GlcNAc.sub.2 by a GlcNAc transferase and mannosidase II, the method comprising the step of introducing into the host cell a nucleic acid encoding a GlcNAc transferase II enzyme, the enzyme comprising: a) a GlcNAc transferase II catalytic domain; fused to b) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the catalytic domain to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell; whereby, upon passage of the recombinant glycoprotein through the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell, a recombinant glycoprotein comprising a GlcNAc.sub.2Man.sub.3GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoform is produced. 32. The method of claim 29, further comprising the step of introducing into the host cell a nucleic acid encoding a UDP-GlcNAc transporter. 33. The method of claim 29, wherein the host is selected from the group consisting of Pichia pastoris, Pichia finlandica, Pichia trehalophila, Pichia koclamae, Pichia membranaefaciens, Pichia opuntiae, Pichia thermotolerans, Pichia salictaria, Pichia guercuum, Pichia pijperi, Pichia stiptis, Pichia methanolica, Pichia sp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomyces sp., Hansenula polymorpha, Kluyveromyces sp., Kluyveromyces lactis, Candida albicans, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus oryzae, Trichoderma reesei, Chrysosporium lucknowense, Fusarium sp., Fusarium gramineum, Fusarium venenatum and Neurospora crassa. 34. The method of claim 30, further comprising the step of introducing into the host cell a nucleic acid encoding a UDP-GlcNAc transporter. 35. The method of claim 30, wherein the host is selected from the group consisting of Pichia pastoris, Pichia finlandica, Pichia trehalophila, Pichia koclamae, Pichia membranaefaciens, Pichia opuntiae, Pichia thermotolerans, Pichia salictaria, Pichia guercuum, Pichia pijperi, Pichia stiptis, Pichia methanolica, Pichia sp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomyces sp., Hansenula polymorpha, Kluyveromyces sp., Kluyveromyces lactis, Candida albicans, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus oryzae, Trichoderma reesei, Chrysosporium lucknowense, Fusarium sp., Fusarium gramineum, Fusarium venenatum and Neurospora crassa. 36. The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of introducing into the host cell a nucleic acid encoding a UDP-GlcNAc transporter. 37. The method of claim 31, wherein the host is selected from the group consisting of Pichia pastoris, Pichia finlandica, Pichia trehalophila, Pichia koclamae, Pichia membranaefaciens, Pichia opuntiae, Pichia thermotolerans, Pichia salictaria, Pichia guercuum, Pichia pijperi, Pichia stiptis, Pichia methanolica, Pichia sp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomyces sp., Hansenula polymorpha, Kluyveromyces sp., Kluyveromyces lactis, Candida albicans, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus oryzae, Trichoderma reesei, Chrysosporium lucknowense, Fusarium sp., Fusarium gramineum, Fusarium venenatum and Neurospora crassa. 38. The method of claim 1, wherein the predominant N-glycan in the recombinant glycoprotein is Man.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2. 39. The method of claim 29, wherein the predominant N-glycan in the recombinant glycoprotein is GlcNAcMan.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2. 40. The method of claim 30, wherein the predominant N-glycan in the recombinant glycoprotein is GlcNAcMan.sub.3GlcNAc.sub.2. 41. The method of claim 31, wherein the predominant N-glycan in the recombinant glycoprotein is GlcNAc.sub.2Man.sub.3GlcNAc.sub.2. 