The disclosed articulated wheel assemblies and associated vehicles, for example wheelchairs, include articulated wheel assemblies with at least one offset connecting arm rotatably attached at one end to a payload platform, for example a seat, and attached at the other end to a linear actuator, where the linear actuator is further connected to a wheel. Embodiments include a rotary actuator for varying the linear actuator swing angle, a rotary actuator for eccentrically rotating a hubless wheel, a linear actuator motor for varying the length of the linear actuator, and a propulsion motor. Embodiments provide omnidirectional motion, stepping action when presented with obstacles, irregular surface negotiation, tight space maneuvering and other features to provide disabled people increased mobility. Alternate embodiments include a payload platform with a support strut, which is rotatably attached to an offset connecting arm and pivotally mounted to a seat.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vehicle, comprising: a payload platform; an offset link with a proximal end and a distal end, said offset link proximal end pivotally connected with a vertically aligned pivot axis to said payload platform, and said offset link distal end positioned a horizontal distance from said vertically aligned pivot axis; a first extendable member with a proximal end, a distal end, a first length and a first extension motor, said first extendable member proximal end pivotally connected to said offset link distal end, wherein said first extension motor changes said first length, and wherein said first length and said vertically aligned pivot axis define a first swing angle; a first rotating motor connected to said first extendable member and said offset link, wherein said first rotating motor rotates said first extendable member and changes said first swing angle; a first wheel with a first central axis, said first wheel rotatably connected to said first extendable member distal end; and a first drive motor coupled to said first wheel, wherein said first drive motor rotates said first wheel around said first wheel central axis. 2. The vehicle of claim 1, further comprising: a second extendable member with a proximal end, a distal end, a second length and a second extension motor, said second extendable member proximal end pivotally connected to said offset link distal end, wherein said second extension motor changes said second length, and wherein said second length and said vertically aligned pivot axis define a second swing angle; a second rotating motor connected to said second extendable member and said offset link, wherein said second rotating motor rotates said second extendable member and changes said second swing angle; a second wheel with a second central axis, said second wheel rotatably connected to said second extendable member distal end; and a second drive motor coupled to said second wheel, wherein said second drive motor rotates said second wheel around said second wheel central axis. 3. The vehicle of claim 2, wherein said first wheel and said second wheel are spaced apart six (6) inches. 4. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein said payload platform is a wheelchair and includes a seat configured to transport a person, and further includes a user control for the user to control the movement of the wheelchair. 5. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein said payload platform includes a payload support member and a support strut with a proximal end and a distal end, said support strut proximal end pivotally connected to said payload support member and said offset link pivotally connected to said support strut distal end. 6. The vehicle of claim 5, wherein said pivotal connection between the support strut proximal end and said payload support member is selectably lockable. 7. The vehicle of claim 1, further comprising a second rotating motor with a rotational axis offset a distance from said wheel central axis, said second rotating motor connected to said extendable member and said wheel, wherein said second rotating motor rotates said wheel central axis around said second rotating motor rotational axis. 8. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein said first extendable member length is at least twelve (12) inches and at most twenty-four (24) inches. 9. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein said first wheel has a diameter equal to eight (8) inches. 10. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein said offset link distal end is positioned a horizontal distance from said vertically aligned pivot axis equal to four (4) inches. 11. The vehicle of claim 1 further comprising a microprocessor for controlling said first extension motor, said first rotating motor and said first drive motor. 12. The vehicle of claim 11 further comprising a battery for providing power to said microprocessor, said first extension motor, said first rotating motor and said first drive motor. 13. A wheelchair for transporting a person across a surface, comprising: a seat for carrying a person; and an articulated wheel assembly, including: an offset member with a proximal end and a distal end, said proximal end pivotally connected to said seat with a vertically aligned pivot axis, said distal end positioned a horizontal distance from said vertically aligned pivot axis; an extendable member with a first opposing end, a second opposing end and a length, said extendable member first end connected to said offset member distal end, and said extendable member second end positioned on an opposite side of the vertical pivot axis from said offset member distal end; an extension motor connected to said extendable member, wherein said extension motor changes said extendable member length; a wheel connected to said extendable member second end; and a propulsion motor connected to said wheel, wherein said propulsion motor rotates said wheel. 14. The wheelchair of claim 13 comprising four articulated wheel assemblies. 15. The wheelchair of claim 13, wherein said extendable member intersects said vertically aligned pivot axis. 16. The wheelchair of claim 15, wherein the extendable member forms an angle of fifty (50) degrees with said vertically aligned pivot axis. 17. The wheelchair of claim 13, wherein said wheel is hubless. 18. A wheelchair for transporting a person across a surface, comprising: a seat for carrying a person; and an articulated wheel assembly, including: an offset member with a proximal end and a distal end, said proximal end pivotally connected to said seat with a vertically aligned pivot axis, said distal end positioned a horizontal distance from said vertically aligned pivot axis; an elongated member with a first opposing end, a second opposing end and a central axis between said first and second opposing ends, said elongated member first end connected to said offset member distal end; a rotating motor connected to said offset member and said elongated member, wherein said rotating motor changes the angle between said vertically aligned pivot axis and said elongated member central axis; a wheel connected to said elongated member second end; and a propulsion motor connected to said wheel, wherein said propulsion motor rotates said wheel. 19. The wheelchair of claim 18 comprising four articulated wheel assemblies. 20. The wheelchair of claim 18, wherein said wheel is hubless. 