A method for the stabilization of slopes and/or terrain which are unstable or subject to landslides, by inserting drainage devices. A vertical shaft with a concrete lining or a microtunnel (1) is constructed and an automatic drilling unit (8) is position therein. The drilling unit has at least one drilling head (6), a magazine of rods (11), and robotic devices able to pick up the rods (12) from the magazine and take them to the drilling head, the rods (12) being constituted by the drainage pipes (5); the head is controlled to perform drilling operations, with simultaneous laying of the drainage pipe. The drainage pipes are constituted by a tubular steel element, whose walls contain holes which house a microfiltration valve filled with water-soluble material to prevent the passages from becoming obstructed during drilling; when the pipe has been laid, the water-soluble material dissolves, thus cleaning the passages.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Method for the construction of drainage works to stabilize ground which is unstable and/or liable to landslides, for the drainage of percolates in contaminated areas, to increase the uptake capacity of groundwater to be conveyed to aqueducts, or as a drilling system for the injection of grout and other mixtures for the purpose of consolidation with the jet-grouting or conventional grouting technique, the method comprising the steps of: constructing a shaft in a position which the ground is stable; inserting an automated drilling unit (8) into the shaft; drilling and inserting one or more drainage pipes (5) into the area to be drained, starting from said shaft; pick-up of a drilling rod (12) from a magazine (11) by a robot (13), and positioning of said rod on a rotary head (14); drilling the concrete shaft wall by core boring; pick-up of a rod fitted with a disposable bit (6) and a preventer (20) from a magazine (11), and mounting thereof on said rotary head (14); rotating and simultaneous advancing of the head, with drilling of the soil and pressurised insertion of the preventer in the concrete wall of the shaft; pick-up of a second rod (12) from the magazine and loading of said rod onto the head (15) which, as it advances, screws said rod onto the rod already inserted in the ground and advances further, continuing to drill and inserting the second rod in the ground; repetition of the last stage until the required depth is reached; and returning the machine to the starting position for loading of a new set of rods into the magazine, and advance of the machine to the point at which the next drainage pipe is to be inserted. 2. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the wall of said shaft (1) is drilled with a coring rod; when the coring rod has been removed, drilling begins with a rod fitted with a disposable bit (6) and a preventer which is inserted into the hole in the shaft wall during the advance of the rod; a second rod (12) is connected to the one already inserted in the ground and drilling continues, rods (12) being added from time to time until the required depth is reached. 3. Method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the drainage pipe is used as a drilling rod. 4. Method as claimed in claim 3, wherein said drainage pipe (5) present a plurality of holes (17) closed by valves consisting of perforated elements (16) filled with water-soluble material (19) which is designed to prevent the holes (17) from becoming obstructed during drilling, and subsequently dissolves on contact with water. 5. Method as claimed in claim 2, wherein said microtunnel (1) is constructed in soil strata below the area affected by gravitational movements. 6. Equipment for the implementation of the method as claimed in claim 1, which includes a machine comprising: a magazine (11) of drilling rods (5); a rotary head (14); means designed to cause said rotary head (14) to slide in a direction orthogonal to the direction of advance of the machine; means designed to pick up a rod (5) from said magazine (11) automatically, at intervals, and fit it onto said rotary head (14); said machine being equipped with means which cause it to advance along rails position in a microtunnel. 7. Machine as claimed in claim 6, which includes means designed to hang it from lifting devices able to lower it into a vertical shaft. 8. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said shaft is constituted by a microtunnel (1) external to the area to be drained, and is constructed in soil strata not affected by gravitational movements. 9. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said shaft (1) consists of a vertical shaft constructed in the soil stratum to be drained, and that the drainage pipes (5) are inserted into the ground from said vertical shaft (1). 