Device and method for needle penetrating and filling a chamber with a predetermined substance, and laser resealing a resulting needle hole in the device. A needle penetrable and laser resealable portion is pierceable with a needle to form a needle aperture therethrough to fill the chamber, and is laser resealable to hermetically seal the needle aperture by applying laser radiation. The needle penetrable and laser resealable portion defines a predetermined wall thickness in an axial direction thereof, and includes a thermoplastic that substantially prevents the formation of particles released into the chamber during penetration by and withdrawal of the needle. The thermoplastic includes a predetermined amount of pigment that allows it to substantially absorb laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength, substantially prevent the passage of radiation through the predetermined wall thickness thereof, and hermetically seal a needle aperture formed in the needle penetration region thereof in a predetermined time period.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising the following steps: molding a body defining a chamber under a flow of sterile filtered air; molding a thermoplastic portion under a flow of sterile filtered air and in close proximity to the molding of the body, wherein the thermoplastic portion defines a penetrable region that is penetrable by a filling member and is heat resealable to hermetically seal an aperture therein by applying laser radiation at a predetermined wavelength and power thereto; prior to allowing the thermoplastic portion and body to cool to an ambient temperature, assembling the thermoplastic portion and body and, in turn, forming a device defining a sterile chamber sealed with respect to ambient atmosphere; penetrating the penetrable region of the thermoplastic portion with a filling member such that the filling member is in fluid communication with the chamber of the device; introducing the substance through the filling member and into the chamber of the device; withdrawing the filling member from the thermoplastic portion; and transmitting laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength and power onto an aperture formed in the penetrable region of the thermoplastic portion, and hermetically sealing the aperture within a time period of less than about 2 seconds. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the flow of sterile filtered air defines a substantially laminar flow. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the assembly step includes assembling the body and thermoplastic portion at a bactericidal temperature. 4. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the assembly step includes using an assembly fixture to bring a plurality of thermoplastic portions into engagement with a plurality of bodies, or a plurality of bodies into engagement with a plurality of thermoplastic portions. 5. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the substance is at least one of a food product, a cosmetic product, and a medicament. 