An automated detection system includes a robotic fluid handling system for performing a plurality of assays; a detection system for imaging the assays as they are performed; and a computer control, data acquisition, and data analysis system for controlling the operation of the fluid-handling and detection system and for collecting and analyzing imaging data. The automated detection system comprises a pipettor for simultaneously distributing a predetermined amount of a liquid and a signal-generating element to each of the plurality of wells; an excitation source for simultaneously exposing the wells to excitation radiation; a detector for simultaneously detecting signal emitted from each of the wells over a period of time comprising a single imager for optically imaging the plurality of wells simultaneously; and computerized controller for simultaneously coordinating the pipettor, the excitation source, and the detector. Further, a method for performing simultaneous assays includes the steps of simultaneously distributing a predetermined amount of a liquid solution to each of a plurality of samples, simultaneously exposing the wells to excitation radiation, simultaneously detecting signals emitted from the wells using a detector comprising a single imaging means, and simultaneously controlling and coordinating the distribution, excitation, and detection using a computerized controller.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for simultaneously performing a plurality of fluorescence assays using a plurality of plates each containing a plurality of wells, a bar code being associated with each of the plurality of plates, the apparatus comprising: a scanner configured to scan each of the bar codes and to generate first data representing each of the bar codes; and a controller coupled to the scanner, the controller comprising a memory storing a database relating each of the bar codes represented by the first data with a contents of each of the plurality of plates, the controller configured to receive a query indicating a contents of at least one of the wells, the controller further configured to use the database stored in the memory to identify at least one of the plates having at least one well containing the indicated contents. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the contents of each of the plurality of plates includes a contents of each of the plurality of wells of the respective plate. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to determine a physical location of each of the plates. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a robot coupled to the controller, wherein the controller is further configured to control the robot to select the at least one plate from the physical location of the at least one plate. 5. An apparatus for simultaneously performing a plurality of fluorescence assays using a plurality of plates each containing a plurality of wells, a bar code being associated with each of the plurality of plates, the apparatus comprising: a scanner configured to scan each of the bar codes and to generate first data representing each of the bar codes; and a controller coupled to the scanner, the controller comprising a storage device storing a database relating each of the bar codes represented by the first data with a contents of each of the plurality of plates, the controller configured to receive a query indicating a contents of at least one of the wells, the controller further configured to use the database stored in the storage device to identify at least one of the plates having at least one well containing the indicated contents. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the contents of each of the plurality of plates includes a contents of each of the plurality of wells of the respective plate. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the controller is further configured to determine a physical location of each of the plates. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising a robot coupled to the controller, wherein the controller is further configured to control the robot to select the at least one plate from the physical location of the at least one plate. 9. An apparatus for simultaneously performing a plurality of fluorescence assays using a plurality of plates each containing a plurality of wells, a bar code being associated with each of the plurality of plates, the apparatus comprising: means for scanning each of the bar codes and for generating first data representing each of the bar codes; a storage device storing a database relating each of the bar codes represented by the first data with a contents of each of the plurality of plates; and means for receiving a query indicating a contents of at least one of the wells and for using the database to identify at least one of the plates having at least one well containing the indicated contents. 