A position-sensing system magnetically senses the position of a first component moving with respect to a second component. A magnetically hard layer on the first component provides a recording medium. Information is magnetically recorded in regions of the magnetically hard layer. These regions provide a relative encoding scheme for determining the position of the first component. Magnetic-field sensors are positioned over redundant tracks of magnetically recorded regions. Each magnetic-field sensor positioned over a given track senses the same magnetized regions while the first component moves with respect to the second component. Other magnetic-field sensors can sense ambient fields for use in performing common-mode rejection. A write head can dynamically repair damaged or erased regions detected by the magnetic-field sensors. Energized by a battery-backup power source, the magnetic-field sensors and associated circuitry can continue to track movement of the first component when the machinery is off.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A position-sensing system, comprising: a first component; a second component movably coupled to the first component for movement with respect thereto; a magnetically hard layer formed on the second component to provide a recording medium, a plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer being magnetized to provide an encoding scheme for determining a position of the second component relative to the first component and a second plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer being magnetized to provide an absolute measurement associated with movement of the second component; and a plurality of magnetic-field sensors coupled to the first component in proximity of the magnetically hard layer to sense the magnetized regions while the second component is moving with respect to the first component, at least two of the magnetic-field sensors being axially positioned to sense the same set of magnetized regions in succession and to generate signals in response to the sensed magnetized regions that can be used to determine a position of the second component. 2. The position-sensing system of claim 1, wherein at least one given magnetic field sensor is positioned at a greater distance from the magnetically hard layer than the magnetic field sensors positioned to sense the magnetically recorded regions, the given magnetic field sensor sensing an ambient field used to perform common-mode rejection. 3. The position-sensing system of claim 1, further comprising a power source supplying electrical power to the plurality of magnetic field sensors and associated read-head electronics when equipment using the position-sensing system is off so that the magnetic field sensors can sense movement of the second component with respect to the first component while the equipment is off. 4. The position-sensing system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of magnetically recorded regions are disposed in spatially separated tracks extending along in a direction of the motion of the second component, with at least two magnetic field sensors for each track of magnetically recorded regions. 5. The position-sensing system of claim 1, wherein the second component is cylindrically shaped and the magnetically recorded regions include rings around a circumference of the second component. 6. The position-sensing system of claim 1, wherein the second component is made of a ferromagnetic material and the magnetically hard layer is disposed adjacent to an outer surface of the ferromagnetic material without any intervening non-magnetic layer, and wherein the plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer are longitudinally recorded. 7. The position-sensing system of claim 1, further comprising a flux concentrator near each magnetic field sensor of the plurality of magnetic field sensors, to improve sensing of magnetically recorded regions. 8. The position-sensing system of claim 1, further comprising a write head, integrated with the plurality of magnetic field sensors, for repairing damaged or erased magnetically recorded regions. 9. The position-sensing system of claim 1, further comprising means for computing and storing positional information based on output signals produced by the plurality of magnetic field sensors, wherein the positional information can be displayed or used to control movement or position of a machine or of a component thereof. 10. A method for sensing a position of a first component moving relative to a second component, the method comprising: forming a magnetically hard layer on the first component to provide a recording medium for storing information; magnetically recording information at a plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer along a direction of motion of the first component; reading, by a plurality of magnetic field sensors, the same magnetically recorded regions of the magnetically hard layer while the first component is moving relative to the second component; generating output signals by the plurality of magnetic field sensors from which a position of the first component with respect to the second component can be determined; and supplying electrical power to the plurality of magnetic field sensors and associated read-head electronics when a machine integrated with the components is off so that the magnetic field sensors can detect movement of the first component with respect to the second component while the machine is off. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising sensing an ambient field for use in performing common-mode rejection. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of magnetically recording includes magnetically recording regions in spatially separated tracks extending in a direction of the motion of the first component, and further comprising reading each track of magnetically recorded regions with at least two magnetic field sensors. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of magnetically recording includes longitudinally recording information in the plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer; and wherein the first component is made of a ferromagnetic material and the magnetically hard layer is disposed adjacent to an outer surface of the ferromagnetic material without any intervening non-magnetic layer. 14. The method of claim 10, further comprising concentrating flux near each of the plurality of magnetic field sensors to improve the reading of magnetically recorded regions. 15. The method of claim 10, further comprising sensing a damaged or erased magnetically recorded region and dynamically repairing this region. 16. The method of claim 10, further comprising computing and storing positional information based on output signals produced by the plurality of magnetic field sensors, wherein the positional information can be displayed or used to control movement or position of a machine or of a component thereof. 17. An apparatus, comprising: a first component; a second component movably coupled to the first component for movement with respect thereto; a magnetically hard layer formed on the second component to provide a recording medium, a plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer being magnetized to provide an encoding scheme for determining a position of the second component relative to the first component; a plurality of magnetic-field sensors coupled to the first component in proximity of the magnetically hard layer to sense the magnetized regions while the second component is moving with respect to the first component, at least two of the magnetic-field sensors being axially positioned to sense the same set of magnetized regions in succession and to generate signals in response to the sensed magnetized regions that can be used to determine a position of the second component; and a power source supplying electrical power to the plurality of magnetic field sensors and associated read-head electronics when equipment integrated with the components is off so that the magnetic field sensors can sense movement of the second component with respect to the first component while the equipment is off. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein at least one given magnetic field sensor is positioned at a greater distance from the magnetically hard layer than the magnetic field sensors positioned to sense the magnetically recorded regions, the given magnetic field sensor sensing an ambient field used to perform common-mode rejection. 19. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a power source supplying electrical power to the plurality of magnetic field sensors and associated read-head electronics when equipment using the position-sensing system is off so that the magnetic field sensors can sense movement of the second component with respect to the first component while the equipment is off. 20. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the plurality of magnetically recorded regions are disposed in spatially separated tracks extending along in a direction of the motion of the second component, with at least two magnetic field sensors for each track of magnetically recorded regions. 21. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the second component is cylindrically shaped and the magnetically recorded regions include rings around a circumference of the second component. 22. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the second component is made of a ferromagnetic material and the magnetically hard layer is disposed adjacent to an outer surface of the ferromagnetic material without any intervening non-magnetic layer, and wherein the plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer are longitudinally recorded. 23. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a flux concentrator near each magnetic field sensor of the plurality of magnetic field sensors, to improve sensing of magnetically recorded regions. 24. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a second plurality of magnetically recorded regions for providing an absolute measurement associated with movement of the second component. 25. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a write head, integrated with the plurality of magnetic field sensors, for repairing damaged or erased magnetically recorded regions. 26. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising means for computing and storing positional information based on output signals produced by the plurality of magnetic field sensors, wherein the positional information can be displayed or used to control movement or position of a machine or of a component thereof. 27. A position-sensing system, comprising: a first component; a second component movably coupled to the first component for movement with respect thereto; a magnetically hard layer formed on the second component to provide a recording medium, a plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer being magnetized to provide an encoding scheme for determining a position of the second component relative to the first component; and a plurality of magnetic-field sensors coupled to the first component in proximity of the magnetically hard layer to sense the magnetized regions while the second component is moving with respect to the first component, at least two of the magnetic-field sensors being axially positioned to sense the same set of magnetized regions in succession and to generate signals in response to the sensed magnetized regions that can be used to determine a position of the second component; and a write head, integrated with the plurality of magnetic-field sensors, for repairing damaged or erased magnetically recorded regions. 28. The position-sensing system of claim 27, wherein at least one given magnetic field sensor is positioned at a greater distance from the magnetically hard layer than the magnetic field sensors positioned to sense the magnetically recorded regions, the given magnetic field sensor sensing an ambient field used to perform common-mode rejection. 29. The position-sensing system of claim 27, further comprising a power source supplying electrical power to the plurality of magnetic field sensors and associated read-head electronics when equipment using the position-sensing system is off so that the magnetic field sensors can sense movement of the second component with respect to the first component while the equipment is off. 30. The position-sensing system of claim 27, wherein the plurality of magnetically recorded regions are disposed in spatially separated tracks extending along in a direction of the motion of the second component, with at least two magnetic field sensors for each track of magnetically recorded regions. 31. The position-sensing system of claim 27, wherein the second component is cylindrically shaped and the magnetically recorded regions include rings around a circumference of the second component. 32. The position-sensing system of claim 27, wherein the second component is made of a ferromagnetic material and the magnetically hard layer is disposed adjacent to an outer surface of the ferromagnetic material without any intervening non-magnetic layer, and wherein the plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer are longitudinally recorded. 33. The position-sensing system of claim 27, further comprising a flux concentrator near each magnetic field sensor of the plurality of magnetic field sensors, to improve sensing of magnetically recorded regions. 34. The position-sensing system of claim 27, further comprising a second plurality of magnetically recorded regions for providing an absolute measurement associated with movement of the second component. 35. The position-sensing system of claim 27, further comprising means for computing and storing positional information based on output signals produced by the plurality of magnetic field sensors, wherein the positional information can be displayed or used to control movement or position of a machine or of a component thereof. 36. A method for sensing a position of a first component moving relative to a second component, the method comprising: forming a magnetically hard layer on the first component to provide a recording medium for storing information; magnetically recording information at a plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer along a direction of motion of the first component; reading, by a plurality of magnetic field sensors, the same magnetically recorded regions of the magnetically hard layer while the first component is moving relative to the second component; generating output signals by the plurality of magnetic field sensors from which a position of the first component with respect to the second component can be determined; and sensing a damaged or erased magnetically recorded region and dynamically repairing this region. 37. The method of claim 36, further comprising sensing an ambient field for use in performing common-mode rejection. 38. The method of claim 36, further comprising supplying electrical power to the plurality of magnetic field sensors and associated read-head electronics when a machine integrated with the components is off so that the magnetic field sensors can detect movement of the first component with respect to the second component while the machine is off. 39. The method of claim 36, wherein the step of magnetically recording includes magnetically recording regions in spatially separated tracks extending in a direction of the motion of the first component, and further comprising reading each track of magnetically recorded regions with at least two magnetic field sensors. 40. The method of claim 36, wherein the step of magnetically recording includes longitudinally recording information in the plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer; and wherein the first component is made of a ferromagnetic material and the magnetically hard layer is disposed adjacent to an outer surface of the ferromagnetic material without any intervening non-magnetic layer. 41. The method of claim 36, further comprising concentrating flux near each of the plurality of magnetic field sensors to improve the reading of magnetically recorded regions. 42. The method of claim 36, further comprising computing and storing positional information based on output signals produced by the plurality of magnetic field sensors, wherein the positional information can be displayed or used to control movement or position of a machine or of a component thereof. 43. A method for sensing a position of a first component moving relative to a second component, the method comprising: forming a magnetically hard layer on the first component to provide a recording medium for storing information; magnetically recording information at a plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer along a direction of motion of the first component; magnetically recording information at a second plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer to provide an absolute measurement associated with movement of the first component; reading, by a plurality of magnetic field sensors, a same set of magnetically recorded regions of the magnetically hard layer while the first component is moving relative to the second component; and generating output signals by the plurality of magnetic field sensors from which a position of the first component with respect to the second component can be determined. 44. The method of claim 43, further comprising sensing an ambient field for use in performing common-mode rejection. 45. The method of claim 43, further comprising supplying electrical power to the plurality of magnetic field sensors and associated read-head electronics when a machine integrated with the components is off so that the magnetic field sensors can detect movement of the first component with respect to the second component while the machine is off. 46. The method of claim 43, wherein the step of magnetically recording includes magnetically recording regions in spatially separated tracks extending in a direction of the motion of the first component, and further comprising reading each track of magnetically recorded regions with at least two magnetic field sensors. 47. The method of claim 43, wherein the step of magnetically recording includes longitudinally recording information in the plurality of regions of the magnetically hard layer; and wherein the first component is made of a ferromagnetic material and the magnetically hard layer is disposed adjacent to an outer surface of the ferromagnetic material without any intervening non-magnetic layer. 48. The method of claim 43, further comprising concentrating flux near each of the plurality of magnetic field sensors to improve the reading of magnetically recorded regions. 49. The method of claim 43, further comprising sensing a damaged or erased magnetically recorded region and dynamically repairing this region. 50. The method of claim 43, further comprising computing and storing positional information based on output signals produced by the plurality of magnetic field sensors, wherein the positional information can be displayed or used to control movement or position of a machine or of a component thereof. 