The present invention relates to a manipulator arm and drive system that can be operated in multiple modes, including an on or off mode, referred to herein as a "rate mode" or a spatially correspondent ("SC") mode. The multi-mode manipulator arm and drive system of the present invention can be hydraulically operated subsea.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manipulator drive system comprising: a. a rate mode selector switch configured to output a rate mode drive signal capable of driving a manipulator arm in a rate mode; b. a spatially correspondent controller comprising a position adjustable master configured to output a spatially correspondent mode control signal responsive to the position of the master and capable of driving a manipulator arm in a spatially correspondent mode; and c. a mode selector device operatively coupled to selectively receive at least one of the rate mode drive signal and the spatially correspondent mode control signal and to selectively output one of the rate mode control signal or the spatially correspondent mode control signal as the selected mode control signal. 2. The drive system of claim 1, wherein the rate mode selector switch is a push button. 3. The drive system of claim 1, wherein the spatially correspondent mode controller is a hand controller. 4. The manipulator drive system of claim 1, further comprising a local control computer operatively connected to receive the selected mode control signal and to output a remote control signal. 5. The manipulator drive system of claim 4, further comprising a remote control computer operatively connected to the local control computer to receive the remote control signal and to output an actuator control input signal. 6. The manipulator drive system of claim 5, wherein the local control computer is operatively connected to the remote control computer via a wire. 7. The manipulator drive system of claim 5, wherein the local control computer is operatively connected to the remote control computer via an optical fiber. 8. The manipulator drive system of claim 7, wherein the remote control computer comprises telemetry electronics and software. 9. The manipulator drive system of claim 5, further comprising: a. an actuator control configured to receive the actuator control input signal and to output an actuator control output signal; b. an actuator configured to receive the actuator control input signal and to move in response to the actuator position signal; and c. a tele-robotic arm segment coupled to the actuator such that it moves in response to the movement of the actuator. 10. The manipulator drive system of claim 9, wherein the actuator is a hydraulic actuator. 11. The manipulator drive system of claim 10, wherein the actuator control signal is generated in response to a predetermined level of a hydraulic process parameter. 12. The manipulator drive system of claim 9, further comprising an arm segment position sensor configured to sense the position of a tele-robotic arm segment and to output a position indicator signal to the remote control computer. 13. A manipulator drive system comprising: a. a rate mode selector switch configured to output a rate mode drive signal capable of driving a manipulator arm in a rate mode; b. a spatially correspondent hand controller comprising a position adjustable master configured to output a spatially correspondent mode control signal responsive to the position of the master and capable of driving a manipulator arm in a spatially correspondent mode; c. a mode selector device operatively coupled to selectively receive at least one of the rate mode drive signal and the spatially correspondent mode control signal and to selectively output one of the rate mode control signal or the spatially correspondent mode control signal as the selected mode control signal; and d. a local control computer operatively connected to receive the selected mode control signal and to output a remote control signal. 14. The manipulator drive system of claim 13, further comprising a remote control computer operatively connected to the local control computer to receive the remote control signal and to output an actuator control input signal. 15. The manipulator drive system of claim 14, wherein the remote control computer comprises telemetry electronics and software. 16. The manipulator drive system of claim 15, further comprising: a. an actuator control configured to receive the actuator control input signal and to output an actuator control output signal; b. an actuator configured to receive the actuator control input signal and to move in response to the actuator position signal; and c. a tele-robotic arm segment coupled to the actuator such that it moves in response to the movement of the actuator. 17. The manipulator drive system of claim 16, further comprising an arm segment position sensor configured to sense the position of a tele-robotic arm segment and to output a position indicator signal to the remote control computer. 18. A manipulator drive system comprising: a. a rate mode selector switch configured to output a rate mode drive signal capable of driving a manipulator arm in a rate mode; b. a spatially correspondent hand controller comprising a position adjustable master configured to output a spatially correspondent mode control signal responsive to the position of the master and capable of driving a manipulator arm in a spatially correspondent mode; c. a mode selector device operatively coupled to selectively receive at least one of the rate mode drive signal and the spatially correspondent mode control signal and to selectively output one of the rate mode control signal or the spatially correspondent mode control signal as the selected mode control signal; d. a local control computer operatively connected to receive the selected mode control signal and to output a remote control signal; and e. a remote control computer comprising telemetry electronics and software and operatively connected to the local control computer to receive the remote control signal and to output an actuator control input signal. 19. The manipulator drive system of claim 18, wherein the remote control computer is operatively connected to the local control computer via an optical fiber. 20. The manipulator drive system of claim 18, wherein the remote control computer is operatively connected to the local control computer via a wire. 