An office chair is provided having a contoured back assembly comprising a back frame and a suspension fabric. The fabric is attached to the back frame through a spline wherein the back frame has a three-dimensional contoured shape formed by overlapped frame rings with the fabric being joined thereto by a spline. The fabric is secured to the frame by a machine wherein the fabric is first stretched from the outer edge of the fabric and then is clamped to a frame surface in the pre-tensioned or pre-streched condition. The fabric edges are allowed to hang loose and then fixed in the frame by a spline. Once secured, the fabric is unclamped from the frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for mounting a suspension fabric to a frame of a chair comprising the steps of: providing a chair frame having a peripheral frame section which defines an open interior region and a peripheral groove extending about said peripheral frame section; providing a suspension fabric which is resiliently stretchable between an unstretched condition and a stretched condition, said suspension fabric having a peripheral edge portion; engaging and stretching said suspension fabric to said stretched condition having a size greater than the size of the suspension fabric in said unstretched condition; positioning said stretched suspension fabric over a face of said frame with an interior portion overlying said open interior region; clamping said stretched suspension fabric against said frame face by a clamping body disposed in opposing relation with said frame face which presses said suspension fabric against said frame face with said suspension fabric being clamped between said frame face and said opposing clamping body, said clamping body being movable toward and away from said face of said frame; releasing said engagement of said peripheral edge of said suspension fabric when clamped against said frame such that said peripheral edge portion returns to an unstretched condition and said interior portion of said suspension fabric remains in said stretched condition; securing said peripheral edge portion to said frame by insertion of a spline member into said peripheral groove which fixes said peripheral edge to said frame; and removing said clamping body with said suspension fabric being maintained in said stretched condition by said securing of said peripheral edge to said peripheral groove by said spline member. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said suspension fabric is stretched from said unstretched condition to said stretched condition by clamp devices which engage said peripheral edge and stretch said suspension fabric lengthwise. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein said step of releasing said peripheral edge portion includes the step of disengaging said clamp devices from said peripheral edge portion. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein said clamping body includes a clamping surface extending about the periphery of said clamping body which said clamp surface conforms to said frame face and presses said stretched suspension fabric against said frame face. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein said peripheral edge portion is engaged by clamp assemblies which have gripping jaws wherein said stretching of said suspension fabric includes the steps of gripping said peripheral edge with said clamp assemblies and displacing said clamp assemblies to stretch said suspension fabric to said stretched condition. 6. The method according to claim 1, further including the steps of positioning said suspension fabric in said unstretched condition over the frame face, gripping the peripheral edge thereof with clamp assemblies, and displacing said clamp assemblies to stretch said suspension fabric to said stretched condition. 7. An assembly apparatus for mounting a suspension fabric to a chair frame wherein said chair frame has a peripheral frame section which defines a frame opening and said suspension fabric is resiliently stretchable to a stretched condition so as to span said frame opening and has a peripheral edge portion which is engaged with said frame such that said suspension fabric is secured to said frame in said stretched condition, the apparatus comprising: a support unit for supporting said frame with a frame face facing outwardly therefrom, said suspension fabric initially being provided over said frame in an unstretched condition with a peripheral edge portion of said suspension fabric extending outwardly beyond the outer periphery of said frame; a stretching arrangement which engages said peripheral edge portion and effects stretching of said suspension fabric to said stretched condition wherein said suspension fabric overlies said frame face and extends beyond said frame periphery; a clamp body which is displaceable downwardly toward said frame face and includes an opposed clamping surface which presses against said stretched suspension fabric so as to clamp said suspension fabric against said frame face in said stretched condition; said stretching arrangement being releasable when said suspension fabric is clamped to said frame face to permit said peripheral edge portion of said suspension fabric to hang loose while said suspension fabric is maintained in said stretched condition by said clamp body; and a securing arrangement which fixedly secures said loose peripheral edge portion of said suspension fabric to said frame, said clamp body being displaceable away from said frame face after said peripheral edge portion of said suspension fabric is secured to said frame so as to maintain said suspension fabric in said stretched condition after said clamp body is displaced away therefrom. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said stretching arrangement comprises a plurality of clamp assemblies positioned about the frame periphery which are engagable with said peripheral edge of said suspension fabric. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said clamp assemblies and said support unit are displaceable one relative to the other to effect stretching of said suspension fabric. 10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said clamp assemblies include displaceable jaws which are movable toward each other to clamp the fabric edge portion therebetween. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said clamp assemblies are movable to effect said stretching of said suspension fabric. 12. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said peripheral clamping surface is contoured so as to at least partially conform to a contour of the frame face. 13. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said frame includes a peripheral groove in which a spline member is frictionally fitted. 14. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said securing arrangement comprises a spline tool and an elongate spline wherein such spline tool is displaceable about an outer periphery of said frame to insert said spline and said peripheral edge portion of said suspension fabric into a corresponding groove formed in said frame for fixed securement of the suspension fabric to said frame. 15. A method for mounting a suspension fabric to a furniture frame comprising the steps of: providing a furniture frame formed in a loop so as to define a frame opening, said furniture frame having securing structure extending about a periphery of said frame opening; providing a suspension fabric adapted to be positioned over said furniture frame to span said frame opening, said suspension fabric being resiliently stretchable between an unstretched condition and a stretched condition, the suspension fabric having a peripheral edge portion; engaging said peripheral edge portion and stretching said suspension fabric to said stretched condition wherein said suspension fabric when in said stretched condition is positioned closely adjacent to a face of said furniture frame; clamping said stretched suspension fabric against said frame face by a clamping body disposed in opposing relation with said frame face wherein said suspension fabric is clamped between said frame face and said clamping body, said peripheral edge portion being disposed outwardly of said clamping body, said clamping body being moveable towards said frame face for said clamping of said suspension fabric; releasing said engagement of said peripheral edge portion of said suspension fabric while said suspension fabric is clamped against said furniture frame by said clamping body, after which said peripheral edge portion is exposed outwardly of said clamping body; securing said exposed peripheral edge portion to said frame by securement structure which engages with said securing structure on said furniture frame; and removing said clamping body by said clamping body away from said frame face wherein said suspension fabric remains in said stretched condition on said furniture frame by said securement structure. 16. The method according to claim 15, wherein clamp devices are provided which engage said peripheral edge portion of said suspension fabric to effect stretching thereof to said stretched condition. 17. The method according to claim 15, wherein said method further includes the steps of gripping said peripheral edge portion of said suspension fabric with clamp assemblies and displacing said clamp assemblies to stretch said suspension fabric to said stretched condition. 18. The method according to claim 17, wherein said securement structure comprises an elongate spline member and said securing structure comprises a corresponding edge groove in said furniture frame, said method further including the step of inserting said spline member into said edge groove for said securing of said stretched suspension fabric to said furniture frame. 19. A method for mounting a suspension fabric to a furniture frame comprising the steps of: providing a furniture frame having a frame face and a peripheral frame edge portion; positioning said furniture frame in a support unit with said frame face facing upwardly; providing a stretchable fabric adapted to be positioned over said furniture frame to span said furniture frame in a region between said frame edge portion, said fabric being resiliently stretchable between an unstretched condition and a stretched condition, the fabric having a peripheral fabric edge portion; engaging said fabric edge portion and stretching said fabric to said stretched condition wherein said fabric when in said stretched condition is positioned closely adjacent to and vertically above said frame face of said furniture frame; clamping said stretched fabric against said frame face by a clamping body which has a clamping face that faces toward said frame face in opposing relation therewith, wherein said stretchable fabric is clamped between said frame face and said clamping face by moving said clamping body downwardly toward said frame face, said fabric edge portion being disposed outwardly of said clamping body when said fabric is clamped; releasing said engagement of said fabric edge portion while said fabric is clamped against said furniture frame by said clamping body, after which said fabric edge portion is exposed outwardly of said clamping body; securely attaching said exposed fabric edge portion to said frame edge portion when said fabric is clamped in said stretched condition; and removing said clamping body by moving said clamping body away from said furniture frame and said fabric attached thereto wherein said fabric remains in said stretched condition on said furniture frame. 20. The method according to claim 19, further including the steps of providing securement structure which comprises an elongate spline member and a corresponding edge groove in said furniture frame and seating of said spline member into said edge groove for said attaching of said stretched fabric to said furniture frame when clamped thereon. 21. The method according to claim 19, wherein clamp devices are provided which engage said fabric edge portion to effect stretching thereof to said stretched condition. 22. The method according to claim 21, wherein said step of releasing said fabric edge portion includes the step of disengaging said clamp devices from said fabric edge portion. 23. The method according to claim 22, wherein said clamping face conforms to said frame face and presses said stretched fabric against said frame face. 24. The method according to claim 19, wherein said support unit supports said furniture frame with said frame face facing outwardly therefrom, said suspension fabric initially being provided vertically above said frame face in an unstretched condition with a peripheral edge portion of said suspension fabric extending outwardly beyond an outer periphery of said furniture frame. 