A container for receiving printed wallpaper from a wallpaper printing system, the wallpaper printing system including a winding area adapted to receive the container, the container comprising: a casing able to be closed to envelope the printed wallpaper; a core about which printed wallpaper is wound; two support members that each associate with opposite distal ends of the core, the support members bearing the load of the printed wallpaper against at least one interior surface of the casing; and, at least one of the support members including a hub which protrudes through an opening in an end of the casing, the hub adapted to engage with a drive spindle provided in the winding area of the printing system, the drive spindle rotating the hub which results in rotation of the core and consequent winding of the printed wallpaper about the core.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A container for receiving printed media web from a printing system, the printing system including a winding area adapted to receive the container, the container comprising: a casing able to be closed about a gap to envelope the printed media web; a core about which printed media web is wound; two support members that each associate with opposite distal ends of the core, the support members bearing the load of the printed media web against at least one interior surface of the casing; and, at least one of the support members including a hub which protrudes through an opening in an end of the casing, the hub including a plurality of teeth adapted to engage with a drive spindle provided in the winding area of the printing system, the drive spindle rotating the hub which results in rotation of the core and consequent winding of the printed media web about the core; wherein the casing includes a handle formed by two sub-units, the sub-units being arranged on either side of the gap and having openings arranged to cooperate with one another so as to form a grip when the casing is closed about the gap. 2. The container as claimed in claim 1, wherein the casing includes a viewing window. 3. The container as claimed in claim 1, wherein the casing is an elongated folded carton. 4. The container as claimed in claim 1, wherein both support members include a hub. 5. The container as claimed in claim 4, wherein the casing includes openings at both ends to receive the hubs. 6. The container as claimed in claim 4, wherein each hub engages a drive spindle. 7. The container as claimed in claim 1, wherein the core is a hollow cylinder. 8. The container as claimed in claim 1, wherein the core and the support members each include a circumferential bearing surface. 9. The container as claimed in claim 8, wherein the circumferential bearing surface is attached to the hub by spokes. 