The invention provides for a printhead assembly having a printhead module, printhead controller integrated circuitry and a casing with an integral heatsink. The printhead module has a plurality of modular printhead tiles designed for pagewidth printing applications. The printhead controller integrated circuitry is encased in the casing, which has an integral heatsink. A ducting assembly ducts ink to micro-electromechanical nozzle assemblies of the printhead tiles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly comprising: a printhead module having a plurality of modular printhead tiles each having a plurality of micro-electromechanical nozzle assemblies for printing on a printing medium; printhead controller integrated circuits for controlling the printhead tiles; and a casing having an integral heatsink arrangement for the printhead controller integrated circuits, the casing also having a ducting assembly for ducting ink to the printhead tiles and busbars for interfacing the printhead controller integrated circuits with a controller of a printer, so that the printhead assembly is usable for page width printing applications. 2. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein the ducting assembly includes a laminated stack, each layer of the stack having a number of apertures which, when the layers are stacked, provides ducts whereby ink can flow to the nozzle assemblies. 3. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein a curable resin is used as a seal between the ducting assembly and the printhead tiles. 4. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein the casing has an external ink interface for interfacing with an ink reservoir of a printer. 5. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein each modular printhead tile has male and female end portions shaped and configured to complementarily receive a respective end portion of another printhead tile. 6. The printhead assembly of claim 5, wherein a curable resin serves as a seal between mated male and female end portions. 7. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein the casing is of a material which minimizes electromagnetic interference with the control means. 