Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of apolipoprotein B. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding apolipoprotein B. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of apolipoprotein B expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of apolipoprotein B are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of inhibiting the expression of apolipoprotein B in human cells or tissues in vivo comprising contacting said cells or tissues with an antisense compound 12 to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding apolipoprotein B wherein said compound is 100% complementary to the nucleic acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3, and wherein said compound is not a ribozyme. 2. A method of decreasing serum cholesterol levels in a human comprising administering to a human having elevated serum cholesterol levels an antisense compound 12 to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding apolipoprotein B wherein said compound is 100% complementary to the nucleic acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3, and wherein said compound is not a ribozyme. 3. A method of decreasing lipoprotein levels in a human comprising administering to a human having elevated lipoprotein levels an antisense compound 12 to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding apolipoprotein B wherein said compound is 100% complementary to the nucleic acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3, and wherein said compound is not a ribozyme. 4. A method of decreasing serum triglyceride levels in a human comprising administering to a human having elevated serum triglyceride levels an antisense compound 12 to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding apolipoprotein B wherein said compound is 100% complementary to the nucleic acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3, and wherein said compound is not a ribozyme. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound comprises one or more modifications selected from the group consisting of: a modified sugar moiety, a modified internucleoside linkage, and a modified nucleobase. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said modifications comprise a modified sugar moiety selected from the group consisting of: a 2'-O-methoxyethyl modified sugar moiety, a 2'-methoxy modified sugar moiety, a 2'-O-alkyl modified sugar moiety, and a bicyclic sugar moiety. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said modifications comprise a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein said modifications comprise a 5-methylcytosine. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound is 20 nucleobases in length. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound is not targeted to the start codon region of SEQ ID NO: 3. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound is targeted to nucleotides 1-6530 of SEQ ID NO: 3. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound is targeted to nucleotides 6531-14121 of SEQ ID NO: 3. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein contacting said cells or tissues with a antisense compound comprises parenteral administration of said antisense compound. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said parenteral administration comprises intravenous administration or subcutaneous administration. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound is a gapmer comprising a gap segment comprised of linked 2'-deoxynucleotides positioned between 5' and 3' wing segments. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said wing segments are comprised of at least one modified sugar moiety selected from the group consisting of a 2'-O-methoxyethyl modified sugar moiety, a 2'-methoxy modified sugar moiety, a 2'-O-alkyl modified sugar moiety, and a bicyclic sugar moiety. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said gap segment is ten 2'-deoxynucleotides in length and each of said wing segments is five 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleotides in length. 18. The method of claim 2, wherein said antisense compound is 20 nucleobases in length. 19. The method of claim 2, wherein said antisense compound is not targeted to the start codon region of SEQ ID NO: 3. 20. The method of claim 2, wherein said antisense compound is targeted to nucleotides 1-6530 of SEQ ID NO: 3. 21. The method of claim 2, wherein said antisense compound is targeted to nucleotides 6531-14121 of SEQ ID NO: 3. 22. The method of claim 2, wherein administering said antisense compound comprises parenteral administration of said antisense compound. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein said parenteral administration comprises intravenous administration or subcutaneous administration. 24. The method of claim 2, wherein said serum cholesterol levels are LDL-cholesterol levels. 25. The method of claim 2, wherein said serum cholesterol levels are VLDL-cholesterol levels. 26. The method of claim 2, wherein said serum cholesterol levels are total cholesterol levels. 27. The method of claim 2, further comprising measuring said serum cholesterol levels following administration of said antisense compound. 28. The method of claim 2 wherein the antisense compound comprises at least one modification selected from the group consisting of: a modified sugar moiety, a modified internucleoside linkage, and a modified nucleobase. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein said modification comprises a modified sugar moiety selected from the group consisting of: a 2'-O-methoxyethyl modified sugar moiety, a 2'-methoxy modified sugar moiety, a 2'-O-alkyl modified sugar moiety, and a bicyclic sugar moiety. 30. The method of claim 28, wherein said modification comprises a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 31. The method of claim 28, wherein said modification comprises a 5-methylcytosine. 32. The method of claim 2, wherein said antisense compound is a gapmer comprising a gap segment comprised of linked 2'-deoxynucleotides positioned between 5' and 3' wing segments. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein said wing segments are comprised of at least one modified sugar moiety selected from the group consisting of a 2'-O-methoxyethyl modified sugar moiety, a 2'-methoxy modified sugar moiety, a 2'-O-alkyl modified sugar moiety, and a bicyclic sugar moiety. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein said gap segment is ten 2'-deoxynucleotides in length and each of said wing segments is five 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleotides in length. 35. The method of claim 3, wherein said antisense compound is 20 nucleobases in length. 36. The method of claim 3, wherein said antisense compound is not targeted to the start codon region of SEQ ID NO: 3. 37. The method of claim 3, wherein said antisense compound is targeted to nucleotides 1-6530 of SEQ ID NO: 3. 38. The method of claim 3, wherein said antisense compound is targeted to nucleotides 6531-14121 of SEQ ID NO: 3. 39. The method of claim 3, wherein administering said antisense compound comprises parenteral administration of said antisense compound. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein said parenteral administration comprises intravenous administration or subcutaneous administration. 41. The method of claim 3, wherein said lipoprotein levels are lipoprotein(a) levels. 42. The method of claim 3 wherein said antisense compound comprises at least one modification selected from the group consisting of: a modified sugar moiety, a modified internucleoside linkage, and a modified nucleobase. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein said modification is a modified sugar moiety is selected from the group consisting of: a 2'-O-methoxyethyl modified sugar moiety, a 2'-methoxy modified sugar moiety, a 2'-O-alkyl modified sugar moiety, and a bicyclic sugar moiety. 44. The method of claim 42, wherein said modification comprises a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 45. The method of claim 42, wherein said modification comprises a 5-methylcytosine. 46. The method of claim 3, wherein said antisense compound is a gapmer comprising a gap segment comprised of linked 2'-deoxynucleotides positioned between 5' and 3' wing segments. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein said wing segments are comprised of at least one modified sugar moiety selected from the group consisting of a 2'-O-methoxyethyl modified sugar moiety, a 2'-methoxy modified sugar moiety, a 2'-O-alkyl modified sugar moiety, and a bicyclic sugar moiety. 48. The method of claim 47, wherein said gap segment is ten 2'-deoxynucleotides in length and each of said wing segments is five 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleotides in length. 49. The method of claim 4, wherein said antisense compound is 20 nucleobases in length. 50. The method of claim 4, wherein said antisense compound is not targeted to the start codon region of SEQ ID NO: 3. 51. The method of claim 4, wherein said antisense compound is targeted to nucleotides 1-6530 of SEQ ID NO: 3. 52. The method of claim 4, wherein said antisense compound is targeted to nucleotides 6531-14121 of SEQ ID NO: 3. 53. The method of claim 4, wherein administering said antisense compound comprises parenteral administration of said antisense compound. 54. The method of claim 53, wherein said parenteral administration comprises intravenous administration or subcutaneous administration. 55. The method of claim 4 wherein said antisense compound comprises at least one modification selected from the group consisting of: a modified sugar moiety, a modified internucleoside linkage, and a modified nucleobase. 56. The method of claim 55, wherein said modification is a modified sugar moiety is selected from the group consisting of: a 2'-O-methoxyethyl modified sugar moiety, a 2'-methoxy modified sugar moiety, a 2'-O-alkyl modified sugar moiety, and a bicyclic sugar moiety. 57. The method of claim 55, wherein said modification comprises a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 58. The method of claim 55, wherein said modification comprises a 5-methylcytosine. 59. The method of claim 4, wherein said antisense compound is a gapmer comprising a gap segment comprised of linked 2'-deoxynucleotides positioned between 5' and 3' wing segments. 60. The method of claim 59, wherein said wings segment are comprised of at least one modified sugar moiety selected from the group consisting of a 2'-O-methoxyethyl modified sugar moiety, a 2'-methoxy modified sugar moiety, a 2'-O-alkyl modified sugar moiety, and a bicyclic sugar moiety. 61. The method of claim 60, wherein said gap segment is ten 2'-deoxynucleotides in length and each of said wing segments is five 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleotides in length. 62. The method of claim 1 wherein the antisense compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 63. The method of claim 2 wherein the antisense compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 64. The method of claim 3 wherein the antisense compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 65. The method of claim 4 wherein the antisense compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 