Taste receptor polycystin-2L1 is provided. Methods and systems for screening for tastants and receptor modulators are provided. Knock out and transgenic animals, methods of detecting polymorphisms, and methods of correcting taste defects are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying a compound that binds to or modulates an activity of a polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, the method comprising: (a.) contacting a biological or biochemical sample comprising the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide with a test compound; and, (b.) detecting binding of the test compound to the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, or modulation of the activity of the polypeptide by the test compound, thereby identifying the compound which binds to or modulates the activity of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein (a.) comprises contacting one or more biological sample comprising one or more polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptides with a plurality of test compounds and wherein (b.) comprises detecting binding of the test compounds to the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptides, or modulation of the activity of the polypeptides by the test compounds, thereby identifying one or more compounds that binds to or modulates the activity of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptides. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of test compounds comprises a plurality of pre-screened compounds. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the test compound is selected from the group consisting of: naturally occurring compounds, ions, sour tastants, small organic molecules, peptides, peptide mimetics, a weak acid, CO2, acetic acid, a specific blocker of carbonic anhydrase, and MK-417. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the test compound enhances an activity of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the test compound potentiates an activity of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the test compound inhibits or blocks an activity of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide is a human polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide is a murine polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide is a polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide from a domesticated or livestock animal. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b.) includes detecting binding between the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide and a moiety selected from the group consisting of: a potentiator of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, an antagonist of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, an agonist of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, an inverse agonist of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, a ligand that specifically binds to the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, and an antibody that specifically binds to the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b.) includes in situ or in vivo detection of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b.) includes detecting a signal resulting from the activity of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the signal is a conformation-dependent signal, wherein a conformation of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide is modified by binding of the test compound to the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the biological sample comprises or is derived from a cell that expresses the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein detecting binding of the test compound to the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, or activity of the test compound on the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide comprises detecting one or more of: H.sup.+ flux, Na.sup.+ flux, Ca.sup.2+ flux, ion flux, depolarization of the cell, cell membrane voltage changes, cell membrane conductivity changes, a kinase activity triggered upon binding of a compound to the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, generation, breakdown or binding of a phorbol ester by the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, binding of diacylglycerol or other lipids by the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, cAMP activity, cGMP activity, GTPgammaS binding, phospholipase C activity, activity of an enzyme involved in cellular ionic balance, binding of polycystin-2L1 to another PKD protein, or a transcriptional reporter activity. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising recombinantly expressing a PKD2L1 gene in a recombinant cell, wherein the biological sample is derived from the recombinant cell. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the PKD2L1 gene is heterologous to the recombinant cell. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the cell is a human, rodent or insect cell, and wherein the cell is a cell in culture or a primary cell. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the cell is a taste bud or kidney cell, or wherein the cell is a cell derived from a taste bud or kidney cell. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide is incorporated into a biosensor. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the biosensor comprises a Chem-FET. 23. A system for detecting compounds that bind to or modulate an activity of a polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, the system comprising: (a.) a biological sample comprising the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide; (b.) a source of a plurality of test compounds; and, (c.) a detector that detects binding of one or more of the test compounds to the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide, or modulation of the activity of the polypeptide by one or more of the test compounds, thereby identifying a putative tastant compound that binds to or modulates the activity of the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the biological sample comprises a cell comprising a heterologous gene encoding the polycystin-2L1 taste receptor polypeptide. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the cell is selected from the group consisting of: a mammalian cell, an insect cell, a Xenopus cell, and a taste receptor cell. 26. The system of claim 23, wherein the source of test compounds comprises a library of tastant compounds. 27. The system of claim 23, wherein the source of test compounds comprises a pre-screened library of compounds. 28. The system of claim 23, wherein the detector comprises a patch clamp device or an optical detection device. 29. The system of claim 23, wherein the detector comprises a flourescence detector that detects FRET, changes in membrane potential or flow of a dye into or out of the cell. 