A method of moving a virtual articulated object in a virtual environment in a succession of unit movements, the articulated object including a set of articulated elements connected together by a set of joints, the relative positions of the articulated elements being defined by a plurality of joint angles about a plurality of degrees of freedom. The method includes the steps of calculating an interaction distance between a given articulated element and the other articulated elements of the articulated object; extracting from the interaction distance, a first point belonging to the given articulated element, and a second point belonging to one of the other articulated elements of the articulated object; and defining a single extraction vector from the first and second points. The method further includes a step of moving the given articulated element away from the other articulated elements of the articulated object in a movement defined as a function of the single extraction vector by acting on the degrees of freedom of the articulated object in order to avoid a collision between the given articulated element and the other elements of the articulated object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of moving a virtual articulated object in a virtual environment in a succession of unit movements, the articulated object comprising a set of articulated elements connected together by a set of joints, the relative positions of the articulated elements being defined by a plurality of joint angles about a plurality of degrees of freedom, the method comprising the following steps: calculating an interaction distance between a given articulated element and the other articulated elements of the articulated object; extracting from said interaction distance, a first point belonging to the given articulated element, and a second point belonging to one of the other articulated elements of the articulated object; defining a single extraction vector from said first and second points; and moving the given articulated element away from the other articulated elements of the articulated object in a movement defined as a function of the single extraction vector by acting on the degrees of freedom of the articulated object in order to avoid a collision between the given articulated element and the other elements of the articulated object, wherein said steps of calculating an interaction distance, extracting the first and second points, defining the extraction vector, and moving away the given articulated element, are repeated for each of the articulated elements of the articulated object in order to avoid collision between each articulated element and the remainder of the articulated object. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the interaction distance corresponds to a penetration depth, such that the extraction vector is equal to the coordinates of the second point minus the coordinates of the first point, the penetration depth enabling the articulated object to move with a limited and controlled amount of collision between its articulated elements. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the interaction distance corresponds to a minimum distance, such that the extraction vector is equal to the coordinates of the first point minus the coordinates of the second point, the minimum distance enabling the articulated object to move without collision between its articulated elements. 4. A method according to claim 1, further comprising a step of canceling the most recent unit movement in said succession of unit movements in the event of a collision occurring between the given articulated element and the other articulated elements of the articulated object. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein said steps of extracting the first and second points, of defining the extraction vector, and of moving away the given articulated element, are not executed so long as a collision does not occur between the given articulated element and the other articulated elements of the articulated object. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the given articulated element is moved away from the other articulated elements of the articulated object by joint-flexing movement acting on each of the joints belonging to a chain of joints preceding the given articulated element, with the joint-flexing movement acting at any given joint in said chain of joints comprising the following steps: defining a first vector between the articulation center of said given joint and the origin of the extraction vector; defining a second vector between the articulation center of said given joint and the end of the extraction vector; calculating an angle of rotation for causing the first vector to coincide with the second vector; calculating one or more individual joint-flexing angles by resolving said angle of rotation on the axis or axes defining the degree or degrees of freedom corresponding to said given joint; and turning the articulated element about said given joint through one or more angles proportional to said individual joint angle(s). 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein the angle of rotation is calculated by means of a vector product between the first and second vectors. 8. A method according to claim 6, wherein the individual joint angle(s) is/are calculated by means of one or more scalar products between the vector product and the axis or axes of the degree(s) of freedom of the given joint. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein the articulated element is moved away from the other articulated elements of the articulated object by means of an internal avoider agent acting on the plurality of degrees of freedom of the articulated object. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein the articulated object is specified in its virtual environment by a global position, and a global orientation, such that the articulated object is moved by means of an attractor agent acting on a global position, and/or a global orientation, and/or the plurality of degrees of freedom of the articulated object. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises a step of an operator moving the articulated object in real time by means of an operator agent acting on the position and/or the orientation and/or the plurality of degrees of freedom of the articulated object. 12. A method according to claim 1, wherein the articulated object is a virtual dummy moving on a floor of a virtual environment, the dummy being defined by a position on the virtual floor, by an orientation about a vertical axis perpendicular to said floor and passing through the center of gravity of the dummy, and by the plurality of joint angles defining the set of articulated elements. 13. A computer program, the program being designed to implement the method according to claim 1 when executed by a computer. 14. A method of moving a virtual articulated object in a virtual environment in a succession of unit movements, the articulated object comprising a set of articulated elements connected together by a set of joints, the relative positions of the articulated elements being defined by a plurality of joint angles about a plurality of degrees of freedom, the method comprising the following steps: calculating an interaction distance between a given articulated element and the other articulated elements of the articulated object; extracting from said interaction distance, a first point belonging to the given articulated element, and a second point belonging to one of the other articulated elements of the articulated object; defining a single extraction vector from said first and second points; moving the given articulated element away from the other articulated elements of the articulated object in a movement defined as a function of the single extraction vector by acting on the degrees of freedom of the articulated object in order to avoid a collision between the given articulated element and the other elements of the articulated object, and after each unit movement in said succession of unit movements, determining whether a collision has occurred between the given articulated element and the other articulated elements of the articulated object. 15. A method of moving a virtual articulated object in a virtual environment in a succession of unit movements, the articulated object comprising a set of articulated elements connected together by a set of joints, the relative positions of the articulated elements being defined by a plurality of joint angles about a plurality of degrees of freedom, the method comprising the following steps: calculating an interaction distance between a given articulated element and the other articulated elements of the articulated object; extracting from said interaction distance, a first point belonging to the given articulated element, and a second point belonging to one of the other articulated elements of the articulated object; defining a single extraction vector from said first and second points; and moving the given articulated element away from the other articulated elements of the articulated object in a movement defined as a function of the single extraction vector by acting on the degrees of freedom of the articulated object in order to avoid a collision between the given articulated element and the other elements of the articulated object. 16. A method according to claim 15, wherein the interaction distance corresponds to a penetration depth, such that the extraction vector is equal to the coordinates of the second point minus the coordinates of the first point, the penetration depth enabling the articulated object to move with a limited and controlled amount of collision between its articulated elements. 17. A method according to claim 15, wherein the interaction distance corresponds to a minimum distance, such that the extraction vector is equal to the coordinates of the first point minus the coordinates of the second point, the minimum distance enabling the articulated object to move without collision between its articulated elements. 18. A method according to claim 15, further comprising a step of canceling the most recent unit movement in said succession of unit movements in the event of a collision occurring between the given articulated element and the other articulated elements of the articulated object. 19. A method according to claim 15, wherein said steps of extracting the first and second points, of defining the extraction vector, and of moving away the given articulated element, are not executed so long as a collision does not occur between the given articulated element and the other articulated elements of the articulated object. 