A surface inspection system, as well as related components and methods, are provided. The surface inspection system includes a beam source subsystem, a beam scanning subsystem, a workpiece movement subsystem, an optical collection and detection subsystem, and a processing subsystem. The system features masking positioned in the collection and detection subsystem arranged to selectively prevent a portion of scattered light from passing through. Also included is a scatter absorbing system having a series of scatter absorbing elements for minimizing unrelated to the scatter associated with a desired location on the surface.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An optical collection and detection system for use in a surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system having an incident beam projected through a back quartersphere and toward a desired location on the surface to impinge thereon to create reflected light and scattered light, the optical collection and detection system comprising: a detection subsystem operatively coupled to a collector module, the detection subsystem having a light detection unit arranged to detect the scattered light and generate signals in response; a detector relay assembly positioned between the workpiece surface and the light detection unit along a detector optical axis and arranged to permit a first portion of the scattered light to pass therethrough to the light detection unit; and a mask positioned between the detector relay assembly and the light detection unit along the detector optical axis and arranged to selectively prevent a portion of the first portion of the scattered light from passing through to the light detection unit; wherein the detector relay assembly further comprises a cube arranged to permit the first portion of the scattered light to pass therethrough to the light detection unit; and the mask is optically bonded to the cube. 2. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the detection subsystem has a front detection subsystem arranged to detect scattered light in a front quartersphere above the surface of the workpiece, the light detection unit comprising a front light detection unit, and the detector relay comprising a front detector relay assembly; and wherein the mask comprises a front mask positioned between the front detector relay assembly and the front light detection unit and is arranged to prevent the scattered light near the reflected light. 3. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 2, further comprising a front collector disposed in the front quartersphere and positioned adjacent to a light channel assembly to receive and collect the reflected light, the front collector having collection optics with two aspheric objective lenses and an aperture to permit the reflected beam to pass through the collection optics to a reflected beam detector: wherein the mask is disposed at an x-y position within the front detection subsystem slightly off the detector optical axis and at a location to block the reflected beam, in order to force the mask to be coincident on the aperture; and wherein the mask is disposed at a z-position within the front detection subsystem such that a real image of the mask is located between the two aspheric objective lenses. 4. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the detection subsystem has a wing detection subsystem arranged to detect scattered light in a front quartersphere above the surface of the workpiece, the light detection unit comprising a wing light detection unit, and the detector relay comprising a wing detector relay assembly; and wherein the mask comprises a wing mask positioned between the wing detector relay assembly and the wing light detection unit. 5. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the mask comprises a piece of absorbing glass. 6. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the mask is bonded to the cube with index-matching optical cement in order to minimize scattering of the scattered light. 7. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the mask is formed of black anodized aluminum sheet metal. 8. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the mask is elliptically shaped. 9. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 1, wherein the mask is removable from the optical collection and detection system in order to provide alternative selective masking of the scatter light. 10. An optical collection and detection system, for use in a surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system having an incident beam projected through a back quartersphere and toward a desired location on the surface to impinge thereon to create reflected light and scattered light, the optical collection and detection system comprising: a detection subsystem operatively coupled to a collector module, the detection subsystem having a light detection unit arranged to detect the scattered light and generate siginals in response; a detector relay assembly positioned between the workpiece surface and the light detection unit along a detector optical axis and arranged to permit a first portion of the scattered light to pass therethrough to the light detection unit; and a mask positioned between the detector relay assembly and the light detection unit along the detector optical axis and arranged to selectively prevent a portion of the first portion of the scattered light from passing through to the light detection unit, wherein detector relay assembly further comprises a cube arranged to permit the first portion of the scattered light to pass therethrough to the light detection unit and the mask is optically bonded to the cube; and the mask is switchable in the collection and detection system by moving the cube into another location. 11. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 10, wherein the detector relay assembly comprises a carousel assembly that is arranged to move the cube into and out of the path of the scattered light, and the mask is switchable in the collection and detection system by operating the carousel assembly to move the cube on which the mask is located into another location. 12. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 10, wherein the detection subsystem has a front detection subsystem arranged to detect scattered light in a front quartersphere above the surface of the workpiece, the light detection unit comprising a front light detection unit, and the detector relay comprising a front detector relay assembly; and wherein the mask comprises a front mask positioned between the front detector relay assembly and the front light detection unit and is arranged to prevent the scattered light near the reflected light. 13. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 12, further comprising a front collector disposed in the front quartersphere and positioned adjacent to a light channel assembly to receive and collect the reflected light, the front collector having collection optics with two aspheric objective lenses and an aperture to permit the reflected beam to pass through the collection optics to a reflected beam detector: wherein the mask is disposed at an x-y position within the front detection subsystem slightly off the detector optical axis and at a location to block the reflected beam, in order to force the mask to be coincident on the aperture; and wherein the mask is disposed at a z-position within the front detection subsystem such that a real image of the mask is located between the two aspheric objective lenses. 14. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 10, wherein the detection subsystem has a wing detection subsystem arranged to detect scattered light in a front quartersphere above the surface of the workpiece, the light detection unit comprising a wing light detection unit, and the detector relay comprising a wing detector relay assembly; and wherein the mask comprises a wing mask positioned between the wing detector relay assembly and the wing light detection unit. 15. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 10, wherein the detector relay assembly further comprises a cube arranged to permit the first portion of the scattered light to pass therethrough to the light detection unit; and the mask is optically bonded to the cube. 16. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 10, wherein the mask comprises a piece of absorbing glass. 17. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 10, wherein the mask is bonded to the cube with index-matching optical cement in order to minimize scattering of the scattered light. 18. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 10, wherein the mask is formed of black anodized aluminum sheet metal. 19. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 10, wherein the mask is elliptically shaped. 20. An optical collection and detection system, as recited in claim 10, wherein the mask is removable from the optical collection and detection system in order to provide alternative selective masking of the scatter light. 