A diagnostic system with a handling system that has a loading bay to receive and hold a plurality of carriers. An identification device is configured to identify an identifying feature of the carriers to determine the type of contents loaded on each carrier. A transporter transports the carriers from the loading bay to a first or second location depending on the determined type of contents on each carrier. The transporter has random access to the plurality of carriers in the loading bay. A diagnostic process is conducted using the contents. A carrier, such a for reagents, has one or more holding portions, at least one of which can be moved or rotated with respect to the body of the carrier for mixing or stirring the contents of a container coupled therewith. Also, a retention member can be associated with a positioning device, such as a carousel, to lock and unlock the carrier with respect thereto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assay testing diagnostic analyzer system, comprising: a loading bay for loading a plurality of carriers that are configured for holding containers that contain fluid substances for use in a diagnostic process; a positioning device configured for receiving and positioning the carriers for access by a diagnostic module to perform the diagnostic process; a transporter configured for transporting the carriers from the loading bay to the positioning device; a retention member associated with the positioning device and configured for locking the carriers to the positioning device, the retention member being operatively associated with the transporter for releasing the carriers therefrom to enable the transporter to transport the carrier from the positioning device, further comprising an activation member operably associated with the transporter for releasing at least one of the carriers when the transporter is in contact with the activation member. 2. The diagnostic system of claim 1, wherein the positioning device is driven to position the carriers for access by the diagnostic module. 3. The diagnostic system of claim 2, wherein the positioning device comprises a rotating carousel. 4. The diagnostic system of claim 1, further comprising the diagnostic module, which is configured for performing the diagnostic process by accessing and combining the substances from one of the containers and also another substance to perform the diagnostic process. 5. The diagnostic system of claim 4, wherein the substance in the container comprises a reagent, and the other substance comprises a sample. 6. The diagnostic system of claim 1, further comprising a carrier locking member configured for moving with respect to the positioning device in association with the carrier for locking and unlocking the carrier with respect to the positioning device, the activation member being configured for being displaced by the transporter to move the locking member for the locking and unlocking of the carrier. 7. The diagnostic system of claim 1, wherein the retention member comprises first latching member configured for lockingly latching to a second latching member of at least one of the carriers for locking the carrier to the positioning device, the retention member being configured for relatively moving the latching members for locking and unlocking the carrier. 8. The diagnostic system of claim 7, further comprising a locking member movable with respect to the positioning device and associated with the carrier for moving the second latching member with respect to the first latching member for locking and unlocking the carrier. 9. The diagnostic system of claim 8, further comprising an activation member operatively associated with the transporter for releasing the carrier when the transporter is in contact with the activation member, the locking member comprising a tab that is received in a recess of the carrier and which is configured for sliding the carrier with respect to the latching member. 10. The diagnostic system of claim 1, further comprising: the plurality of carriers; a plurality of the retention members; a carrier sensor configured for detecting the presence of the carriers on the positioning device. 11. The diagnostic system of claim 10, wherein the carriers have an identifying feature, the diagnostic system further comprising: an identification device configured for identifying the identifying feature of the carriers; and a programmable computer for controlling the movement of the transporter and the positioning device based on input data and a preprogrammed priority order for processing a the contents of the carriers based on the identified identifying feature. 