Systems, methods, apparatus and software can be implemented to discover third-party copy devices in a distributed computing environment, determine which of the third-party copy devices is best suited for a particular data moving application, and thereby better utilize network and computing system resources. Moreover, environment changes (e.g., device failure, network traffic changes, new device addition) can be dynamically incorporated into the information used for third-party copy device discovery and selection. These systems, methods, apparatus and software help to reduce human errors which can cause failures in critical data protection operations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-implemented method comprising: identifying a plurality of third-party copy devices, wherein each of the third-party copy devices is configured to respond to an extended copy command by copying data from one storage device to another storage device, wherein the identifying comprises issuing a command to probe information to each of the third-party copy devices; receiving a first extended copy command, wherein the first extended copy command specifies a source storage device from which first data will be transferred and a destination storage device to which the first data will be transferred as part of a data protection operation; identifying a third-party copy device coupled to the source storage device and the destination storage device, wherein the third-party copy device is one of the plurality of third party copy devices; and determining a performance characteristic of at least one of: (1) the third-party copy device, and (2) a connection between the third-party copy device and the source storage device. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining if a device coupled to the source storage device is the third-party copy device. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the determining if the device coupled to the source storage device is the third-party copy device further comprises determining whether the device coupled to the source storage device supports a small computer system interface version three (SCSI-3) extended copy command. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein: the identifying the third-party copy device further comprises identifying one or more third-party copy devices coupled to the source storage device and operable to copy the first data from the source storage device; and the determining the performance characteristic further comprises for each respective third-party copy device of the one or more third-party copy devices, determining the respective performance characteristic of at least one of: (1) the respective third-party copy device, and (2) a respective connection between the respective third-party copy device and the source storage device. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising: presenting to a user, for each of the one or more third-party copy devices and in a ranked order, at least one of an indication of the respective third-party copy device and the respective performance characteristic of the respective third-party copy device. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: selecting the third-party copy device for use in the data protection operation according to the performance characteristic. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: presenting an indication of the third-party copy device and the performance characteristic to a user. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving an indication of a media server coupled to the source storage device. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the first extended copy command comprises an indication of the source storage device, and the indication comprises at least one of: a device name, an operating system handle, a pathname, and an object identifier. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the identifying the third-party copy device further comprises at least one of: determining that the third-party copy device has read access to the source storage device; determining that the third-party copy device is logically connected to the source storage device; and determining that the third-party copy device is physically connected to the source storage device. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the determining the performance characteristic further comprises: determining at least one of: a status of the third-party copy device, an attribute of the third-party copy device, and an address mode of the third-party copy device. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the determining the performance characteristic further comprises: determining a network interconnect count for the connection between the third-party copy device and the source storage device. 13. A system comprising: a memory; a processor coupled to the memory; and a third-party copy device selection module, wherein at least a portion of the third-party copy device selection module is encoded as instructions stored in the memory and executable on the processor, and wherein the third-party copy device selection module is configured to: identify a plurality of third-party copy devices, wherein each of the third-party copy devices is configured to respond to an extended copy command by copying data from one storage device to another storage device, wherein identifying the third-party copy devices comprises issuing a command to probe information to each of the third-party copy devices; receive a first extended copy command, wherein the first extended copy command specifies a source storage device from which first data can be transferred and a destination storage device to which the first data will be transferred as part of a data protection operation; identify a third-party copy device coupled to the source storage device and the destination device, wherein the third-party copy device is one of the plurality of third party copy devices; and determine a performance characteristic of at least one of: (1) the third-party copy device, (2) a connection between the third-party copy device and the source storage device, and (3) a connection between the third-party copy device and the destination storage device. 14. The system of claim 13 further comprising: a storage network; the third-party copy device, wherein the third-party copy device is coupled to the storage network; the source storage device; and the destination storage device. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein the third-party copy device selection module is further configured to: determine if a device coupled to the source storage device is the third-party copy device. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein the third-party copy device selection module is further configured to: determine whether the device coupled to the source storage device supports a small computer system interface version three (SCSI-3) extended copy command. 17. The system of claim 14 further comprising at least one of: a data protection media manager encoded as instructions stored in the memory and executable on the processor, and configured to at least one of: monitor a plurality of storage devices; monitor storage media; and control the plurality of storage devices; and a data protection process manager encoded as instructions stored in the memory and executable on the processor and configured to at least one of: schedule a first data protection operation associated with a client computer system; track the first data protection operation associated with the client computer system; and control the first data protection operation associated with the client computer system; wherein the third-party copy device selection module is in communication with the at least one of the data protection media manager and the data protection process manager. 18. The system of claim 14 further comprising at least one of: a data protection media manager encoded as instructions stored in the memory and executable on the processor, and configured to at least one of: monitor a plurality of storage devices; monitor storage media; and control the plurality of storage devices; and a data protection process manager encoded as instructions stored in the memory and executable on the processor and configured to at least one of: schedule a first data protection operation associated with a client computer system; track the first data protection operation associated with the client computer system; and control the first data protection operation associated with the client computer system; wherein the third-party copy device selection module is part of the at least one of the data protection media manager and the data protection process manager. 19. The system of claim 14 wherein the third-party copy device selection module is further configured to: select the third-party copy device for use in the data protection operation according to the performance characteristic. 20. The system of claim 14 wherein the third-party copy device selection module is further configured to: present an indication of the third-party copy device and the performance characteristic to a user. 21. The system of claim 14 wherein the first extended copy command comprises an identifier of the source storage device, and the identifier comprises at least one of: a device name, an operating system handle, a pathname, and an object ID. 22. The system of claim 14 wherein the third-party copy device selection module is further configured to at least one of: determine that the third-party copy device has read access to the source storage device; determine that the third-party copy device is logically connected to the source storage device; and determine that the third-party copy device is physically connected to the source storage device. 23. The system of claim 14 wherein the third-party copy device selection module is further configured to: determine at least one of: a status of the third-party copy device, an attribute of the third-party copy device, and an address mode of the third-party copy device. 24. The system of claim 14 wherein the third-party copy device selection module is further configured to: determine a network interconnect count for at least one of: (1) the connection between the third-party copy device and the source storage device, and (2) the connection between the third-party copy device and the destination storage device. 25. A computer readable medium persistently storing program instructions executable on a processor, the computer readable medium being at least one of an electronic storage medium, a magnetic storage medium, and a optical storage medium, wherein the program instructions are operable to implement each of: identifying a plurality of third-party copy devices, wherein each of the third-party copy devices is configured to respond to an extended copy command by copying data from one storage device to another storage device, and wherein the identifying comprises issuing a command to probe information to each of the third-party copy devices; receiving a first extended copy command, wherein the first extended copy command specifies a source storage device from which first data will be transferred and a destination storage device to which the first data will be transferred as part of a data protection operation; identifying a third-party copy device coupled to the source storage device and the destination device, wherein the third-party copy device is one of the plurality of third party copy devices; determining a performance characteristic of at least one of: (1) the third-party copy device, and (2) a connection between the third-party copy device and the source storage device. 26. The computer readable medium of claim 25 further comprising program instructions operable to implement: determining if a device coupled to the source storage device is the third-party copy device. 27. The computer readable medium of claim 26 further comprising program instructions operable to implement: determining whether the device coupled to the source storage device supports a small computer system interface version three (SCSI-3) extended copy command. 28. The computer readable medium of claim 25 wherein: the identifying the third-party copy device further comprises identifying one or more third-party copy devices coupled to the source storage device and operable to copy the first data from the source storage device; and the determining the performance characteristic further comprises for each respective third-party copy device of the one or more third-party copy devices, determining the respective performance characteristic of at least one of: (1) the respective third-party copy device, and (2) a respective connection between the respective third-party copy device and the source storage device. 29. The computer readable medium of claim 28 further comprising program instructions operable to implement: presenting to a user, for each of the one or more third-party copy devices and in a ranked order, at least one of an indication of the respective third-party copy device and the respective performance characteristic of the respective third-party copy device. 30. The computer readable medium of claim 25 further comprising program instructions operable to implement: selecting the third-party copy device for use in the data protection operation according to the performance characteristic. 31. The computer readable medium of claim 25 further comprising program instructions operable to implement: presenting an indication of the third-party copy device and the performance characteristic to a user. 32. The computer readable medium of claim 25 further comprising program instructions operable to implement: receiving an indication of a media server coupled to the source storage device. 33. The computer readable medium of claim 25 wherein the first extended copy command comprises an indication of the source storage device, and the indication of the source storage device comprises at least one of: a device name, an operating system handle, a pathname, and an object identifier. 34. The computer readable medium of claim 25 further comprising program instructions operable to implement: determining that the third-party copy device has read access to the source storage device; determining that the third-party copy device is logically connected to the source storage device; and determining that the third-party copy device is physically connected to the source storage device. 35. The computer readable medium of claim 25 further comprising program instructions operable to implement: determining at least one of: a status of the third-party copy device, an attribute of the third-party copy device, and an address mode of the third-party copy device. 36. The computer readable medium of claim 25 further comprising program instructions operable to implement: determining a network interconnect count for the connection between the third-party copy device and the source storage device. 37. An apparatus comprising: a means for identifying a plurality of means for performing third-party copy operations, wherein each of the means for performing third-party copy operations is configured to respond to an extended copy command by copying data from one storage device to another storage device, wherein identifying the plurality of means for performing third-party copy operations comprises issuing a command to probe information to each of the means for performing third-party copy operations; a means for receiving a first extended copy command, wherein the first extended copy command specifies a means for storing source data from which first data will be transferred and a means for storing destination data to which the first data will be transferred as part of a data protection operation; a means for identifying a means for performing third-party copy operations, wherein the means for performing third-party copy operations is coupled to the means for storing source data and the means for storing destination data; a means for determining a performance characteristic of at least one of: (1) the means for performing third-party copy operations, and (2) a connection between the means for performing third-party copy operations and the means for storing source data; a display means for presenting an indication of the means for performing third-party copy operations and the performance characteristic to a user. 38. The apparatus of claim 37 further comprising: a means for selecting the means for performing third-party copy operations for use in the data protection operation according to the performance characteristic. 39. The apparatus of claim 37 further comprising: a means for determining if a device coupled to the means for storing source data is the means for performing third-party copy operations. 40. The apparatus of claim 37 further comprising: a means for determining at least one of: a status of the means for performing third-party copy operations, an attribute of the means for performing third-party copy operations, and an address mode of the means for performing third-party copy operations. 41. The apparatus of claim 37 further comprising: a means for determining a network interconnect count for the connection between the means for performing third-party copy operations and the means for storing source data. 