A position determination system for movable objects or personnel comprising at least one portable position sensor built into a wearable item of a member of personnel having an identification number, or embedded into a movable object having an identification number, and Mobile Initialization Station (MIS). The Mobile Initialization Station (MIS)/Portable Initialization Station (PIS) selected from the group consisting of: {(SATPS)/transceiver unit; (GPS)/transceiver unit; and a TVPS transceiver unit} is configured to provide a set of high accuracy initialization data. The portable position sensor is configured to utilize the high accuracy initialization data to generate and broadcast the positional data of at least one member of personnel having an identification number, or of at least one movable object having an identification number.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A position determination system for personnel members or movable objects integrating local acceleration data adjusted for a local gravitational factor, said system comprising: at least one portable position sensor, each said portable position sensor further comprising: an inertial navigation system (INS) module capable of determining said (INS) module acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor; a portable wireless communication module; and a power source adapted to provide power to said portable position sensor; and a Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) capable of determining its position and velocity with high accuracy; wherein said high accuracy position and velocity data provided by said MIS and said acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor provided by one said portable position sensor is processed in order to derive an INS positional data corresponding to each said INS module. 2. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein at least one said portable position sensor is built into a wearable item of a member of said personnel having an identification number ID_Number. 3. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein at least one said portable position sensor is embedded into a movable object having an ID_Object_Number. 4. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further includes: a portable data processor; and a substantially continuous one-way communication link; wherein said portable position sensor is configured to substantially continuously receive said high accuracy position and velocity data from said high accuracy position determination device by using said one-way communication link; and wherein said portable data processor is configured to derive a set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module based on said high accuracy position and velocity data provided by said Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) and based on said acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor provided by said INS module. 5. The position determination system of claim 4; wherein said portable data processor derives said set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module by incorporating said set of high accuracy velocity data provided by said Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) into said set of measured absolute acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor provided by said INS module in order to generate a set of absolute velocity data indicative of an absolute velocity of said INS module; and by integrating said set of high accuracy positional data provided by said Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) into said set of absolute velocity data in order to generate a set of INS data including a set of absolute positional data indicative of location of said INS module. 6. The position determination system of claim 5; wherein said portable data processor generates a set of INS positional error data that indicates the degree of accuracy of said set of absolute INS positional data. 7. The position determination system of claim 6, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further includes: a memory block; said memory block is configured to record said set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module over a first time period. 8. The position determination system of claim 7, wherein said memory block is further configured to record said set of INS positional error data that indicates the degree of accuracy of said set of absolute INS positional data over a second time period. 9. The position determination system of claim 6, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further includes: a display device configured to display a set of INS positional error data that indicates the degree of accuracy of said set of absolute INS positional data. 10. The position determination system of claim 5; wherein said portable data processor generates a set of INS absolute velocity/acceleration vector error data that indicates the degree of accuracy of said absolute velocity/acceleration vector of said INS module. 11. The position determination system of claim 5, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further includes: a display device configured to display said set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module over a time period. 12. The position determination system of claim 4, wherein said one-way communication link further comprises: a network of short range transceivers configured to support substantially continuous communication between said Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) and at least one said portable position sensor. 13. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further includes: a portable data processor; and a substantially continuous two-way communication link; wherein said portable position sensor is configured to substantially continuously receive said high accuracy position and velocity data provided by said Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) by using said two-way communication link; wherein said portable data processor is configured to derive a set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module based on said high accuracy position and velocity data provided by said Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) and based on said acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor provided by said INS module; and wherein said portable wireless communication module is configured to substantially continuously broadcast said set of INS positional data corresponding to said INS module by using said two-way communication link. 14. The position determination system of claim 13, wherein said portable wireless communication module is further configured to substantially continuously broadcast said set of INS positional error data corresponding to said INS module by using said two-way communication link. 15. The position determination system of claim 13, wherein said two-way communication link further comprises: a communication system selected from the group consisting of: {a Bluetooth communication system, an Ultra Wide Band (UWB) communication system, an (802.11 a) communication system, an (802.11 b) communication system, an (802.11 g) communication system, a LAN network, a WAN network, and a Wi-Fi network}. 16. The position determination system of claim 1 further including: a one-way communication link; and a tracking station further including: a data processor configured by using said one-way communication link to substantially continuously receive said high accuracy position and velocity data provided by said Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) and said acceleration data adjusted for a local gravitational factor provided by each said portable position sensor; and wherein said data processor is configured to derive an INS positional data including an INS positional error data corresponding to each said INS module. 17. The position determination system of claim 16, wherein said tracking station further includes: a display configured to display and to track each said INS module based on said INS positional data including said INS positional error data corresponding to one said INS module. 18. The position determination system of claim 17, wherein said tracking station is configured to substantially continuously communicate with each said INS module using said two-way communication link. 19. The position determination system of claim 18, wherein said tracking station further includes: an alarm device configured to communicate to each said INS module using said two-way communication link that its positional error data exceeds a predetermined threshold. 20. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein said Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) further comprises: a Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) transceiver unit selected from the group consisting of: {an integrated Satellite Positioning System (SATPS)/transceiver unit; an integrated Global Positioning System (GPS)/transceiver unit; and a TVPS transceiver unit}; and a display device. 21. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein said Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) further comprises: an integrated Vector Global Positioning System (Vector GPS)/transceiver unit; and an orientation device; wherein said integrated Vector Global Positioning System (Vector GPS) is configured to determine an orientation vector and a velocity vector of said MIS; and wherein said orientation device is configured to use said orientation vector and said velocity vector of said MIS for an initial calibration of at least one said portable position sensor; and wherein said orientation device is configured to use said orientation vector and said velocity vector of said MIS for subsequent re-calibration of at least one said portable position sensor at time instances when at least one said portable position sensor includes a velocity vector substantially equal to said velocity vector of said MIS. 22. The position determination system of claim 21, wherein said orientation device further comprises: a cavity configured to hold said integrated INS/transceiver for initial calibration or for subsequent re-calibration of said portable position sensor. 23. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein said Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) further comprises: a Portable Initialization Station (PIS) transceiver unit selected from the group consisting of: {an integrated Satellite Positioning System (SATPS)/transceiver unit; an integrated Global Positioning System (GPS)/transceiver unit; and a TVPS transceiver unit}; and a display device. 24. The position determination system of claim 1, wherein at least one said portable position sensor further comprises: a low power miniature INS integrated with a short range transceiver and built into a wearable item selected from the group consisting of: {shoes; an article of clothing; and a watch}. 25. A method for tracking movable objects or personnel objects by integrating local acceleration data adjusted for a local gravitational factor, each said movable object or a member of personnel including a portable position sensor; said method comprising: providing at least one portable position sensor, wherein each said portable position sensor further comprises an inertial navigation system (INS) module; using said INS module to determine said INS module acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor; using a Mobile Initialization Station (MIS)/Portable Initialization Station (PIS) to determine its position and velocity with high accuracy; and processing said high accuracy position and velocity data provided by said MIS/PIS and said acceleration data adjusted for said local gravitational factor provided by one said portable position sensor to derive an INS positional data corresponding to each said INS module. 26. The method of claim 25 further comprising the step of: substantially continuously broadcasting each said set of INS data including said set of absolute positional data indicative of one said INS module location by using at least one communication link between each said INS module and said Mobile Initialization Station (MIS) or said Portable Initialization Station (PIS). 27. The method of claim 26 further including the step of: substantially continuously broadcasting each said set of INS data including a set of absolute velocity/acceleration data indicative of said INS module absolute velocity/acceleration using said at least one communication link between each said INS module and said MIS or said PIS. 28. The method of claim 27 further including the steps of: substantially continuously broadcasting said set of INS positional error data by using said at least one communication link between each said INS module and said MIS or said PIS; and substantially continuously broadcasting said set of INS absolute velocity/acceleration vector error data by using said at least one communication link between each said INS module and said MIS or said PIS. 