A method includes connecting together one or more anode connection members of one or more anode foils and one or more cathode connection members of one or more cathode foils and electrically isolating the one or more anode foils from the one or more cathode foils. A capacitor stack includes a plurality of cathode layers having cathode connection members and a plurality of anode layers having anode connection members. The anode connection members are connected to the cathode connection members and configured such that the anode layers can be electrically separated from the cathode layers by cutting only the anode connection members or the cathode connection members.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: positioning an anode connection member having a distal section and a proximal section and a cathode connection member having a distal section and a proximal section so that the distal section of the cathode connection member at least partially overlays the distal section of the anode connection member; electrically connecting the anode connection member to the cathode connection member to form a connection; and forming a separation in the connection between the anode connection member and the cathode connection member such that the proximal section of the anode connection member is electrically isolated from the proximal section of the cathode connection member. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein positioning further includes positioning the anode connection member and the cathode connection member so that the distal section of the cathode connection member does not overlay the entire distal section of the anode connection member. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein connecting includes connecting the distal section of the anode connection member to the distal section of the cathode connection member. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein forming a separation includes removing a portion of the distal section of the anode connection member. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein forming a separation includes removing a portion of the distal section of the anode connection member and a portion of the distal section of the cathode connection member. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein forming a separation includes removing a portion of the distal section of the anode connection member such that there remains no portion of the distal section of the cathode connection member adjacent the distal section of the anode connection member. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein positioning includes positioning the anode connection member and the cathode connection member so that the distal section of the cathode connection member overlays the entire distal section of the anode connection member. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein connecting includes connecting during a continuous connection process. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein connecting includes using an uninterrupted connecting process to connect an edge of the distal section of the anode connection member to an edge of the distal section of the cathode connection member. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein connecting includes laser welding. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein connecting includes edge-welding. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein forming a separation includes laser cutting. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein forming a separation includes punching. 