Devices and methods for performing assays on materials, particularly biological materials, are provided. The devices and methods make use of self-sealing members, which can be applied to a flat surface to form wells to facilitate immobilization of materials on the flat surface, then removed to yield a flat surface that facilitates the performance of processes on and/or detection of the immobilized material.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A device for arraying a biological material comprising: a base plate; a first removable member defining a plurality of first orifices therein, having a plurality of first walls bounding the plurality of first orifices, the first removable member being in self-sealing contact with the base plate for defining a plurality of first wells therewith corresponding to respective ones of the plurality of first orifices to define a first array, the first removable member being adapted to repeatedly self-seal on the base plate; a second removable member defining a plurality of second orifices therein, having a plurality of second walls bounding the plurality of second orifices, the second removable member being in self-sealing contact with at least one of the base plate and the first removable member for defining a plurality of second wells therewith corresponding to respective ones of the plurality of second orifices to define a second array, the second removable member being adapted to repeatedly self-seal on at least one of the base plate and the first removable member, wherein at least one of said plurality of second orifices is smaller than at least one of said plurality of first orifices; at least one registration element adapted to align the base plate, the first removable member, and the second removable member with one another. 2. The device of claim 1, further comprising at least one biological material immobilized on the base plate within each of the plurality of first and/or second wells in the first and/or second array. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the at least one biological material comprises a single biological material. 4. The device of claim 2, wherein the at least one biological material comprises at least two biological materials disposed in respective ones of at least two of the plurality of first and/or second wells. 5. The device of claim 2, wherein the at least one biological material comprises a plurality of biological materials immobilized within at least one of the plurality of first and/or second wells. 6. The device of claim 2, wherein the first and/or second array spatially and dimensionally corresponds to a standard array of wells in an industry standard microtiter plate. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the standard microtiter plate is selected from the group consisting of a 6-well microtiter plate, a 12-well microtiter plate, a 24-well microtiter plate, a 96-well microtiter plate, a 384-well microtiter plate, a 1,536-well microtiter plate, and a 9,600-well microtiter plate. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the base plate is made of a material selected from the group consisting of glass, silicon, fused silica, metal films, polystyrene, poly(methylacrylate), and polycarbonate. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the base plate has a substantially flat upper surface, the at least one biological material being immobilized on the flat upper surface of the base plate. 10. The device of claim 1, further comprising a first layer of metal disposed on an upper surface of the base plate. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein the first layer of metal is made of a material is selected from the group consisting of gold, silver, platinum, palladium and copper. 12. The device of claim 11, further comprising a second layer of metal disposed between the upper surface of the base plate and the first layer of metal. 13. The device of claim 12, wherein the second layer of metal is made of a material selected from the group consisting of chromium and titanium. 14. The device of claim 10, wherein the first layer has a substantially flat upper surface, the at least one biological material being immobilized on the flat upper surface of the first layer. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein the upper surface of the first layer is biologically inert. 16. The device of claim 9, wherein the upper surface of the base plate is treated for having a self-assembling monolayer disposed thereon. 17. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one registration element comprises a registration pin adapted to extend through the base plate, the first removable member, and the second removable member for aligning respective ones of the base plate, the first removable member and the second removable member. 18. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one registration element includes a visual mark disposed on at least one of the base plate, the first removable member, and the second removable member. 19. The device of claim 1, wherein the first and/or second removable member is made of PDMS. 20. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of first walls of the first removable member bounding the plurality of first orifices are tapered in a direction from an upper surface of the first removable member toward a lower surface of the first removable member such that an opening of the plurality of first orifices is larger in the upper surface of the first removable member than an opening of the plurality of first orifices in the lower surface of the first removable member. 21. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of second walls of the second removable member bounding the plurality of second orifices are tapered in a direction from an upper surface of the second removable member toward a lower surface of the second removable member such that an opening of the plurality of second orifices is larger in the upper surface of the second removable member than an opening of the plurality of second orifices in the lower surface of the second removable member. 22. The device of claim 20, wherein the plurality of second walls of the second removable member bounding the plurality of second orifices are tapered in a direction from an upper surface of the second removable member toward a lower surface of the second removable member such that an opening of the plurality of second orifices is larger in the upper surface of the second removable member than an opening of the plurality of second orifices in the lower surface of the second removable member, wherein a degree of tapering of the first walls of the first removable member is substantially equal to a degree of tapering of the second walls of the second removable member. 23. The device of claim 1 wherein the base plate is treated to enhance immobilization of peptide substrates thereon. 24. The device of claim 1 wherein the base plate is treated to enhance immobilization of kinase substrates thereon. 25. The device of claim 1, wherein the base plate is treated to enhance immobilization of antibody substrates thereon. 26. The device of claim 24, wherein the base plate is treated with a solution of mixed self-assembled monolayer (SAM), such that binding of kinase substrates is enhanced in discrete areas and reduced or eliminated in others. 27. The device of claim 26, wherein the base plate is treated with a solution of mixed SAM, such that specific binding of kinase substrates in desired orientations is enhanced and non-specific binding of kinase substrates is reduced or eliminated. 28. The device of claim 27, wherein the base plate is treated with mixed SAM comprising about 0.1 to 2000 maleimide-terminal groups in a background of tri(ethylene glycol) groups. 