A wallpaper printer includes a cabinet. The cabinet includes a touch screen interface which is positioned at a convenient height for a standing person. The cabinet defines a winding area. A pair of spindles is located in the winding area, and is configured to engage and rotate a winding core. A tape dispenser can dispense tape for attaching print media to the winding core. A printing means is located in the cabinet and is configured to print a wallpaper design upon print media being wound onto the core. A data capture device is tethered to the cabinet and is configured to read indicia so that the printer can thereafter print the wallpaper design corresponding to the indicia upon the print media.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wallpaper printer comprising: a cabinet having a touch screen interface and defining a winding area; a pair of spindles located in the winding area, and configured to engage and rotate a winding core; a tape dispenser which can dispense tape for attaching print media to the winding core; a printing means located in the cabinet and configured to print a wallpaper design upon print media being wound onto the core; and a data capture device tethered to the cabinet and configured to read indicia so that the printer can thereafter print the wallpaper design corresponding to the indicia. 2. A wallpaper printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the spindles is driven by a motor. 3. A wallpaper printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data capture device is tethered to the cabinet with a data cable. 4. A wallpaper printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data capture device includes a barcode scanner and the indicia is a barcode. 5. A wallpaper printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data capture device is a wireless device. 6. A wallpaper printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet defines a vent area at an upper part of the cabinet for the discharge of internal heated or moist air. 7. A wallpaper printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the winding area has an exterior well for receiving a container which, in turn, has the winding core. 