A method for controlling a robot during an interpolation of a trajectory or motion to any prescribed position, comprises the steps of a) ignoring at least one of the three originally prescribed or interpolated tool center point orientation values; b) finding new tool center point orientation values that place the wrist center point of the robot closest to its base while c) maintaining the originally prescribed or interpolated tool center point location values and d) maintaining the original prescribed or interpolated tool center point orientation values not ignored. Said method can preferably be used for carrying a load with a plurality of robots. Its main advantage is an increase of the available working volume.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for controlling a robot during an interpolation of a trajectory or motion to any prescribed position, comprising the steps: a) ignoring at least one of the three originally prescribed or interpolated tool center point orientation values, b) finding new tool center point orientation values that place the wrist center point of the robot closest to its base while c) maintaining the originally prescribed or interpolated tool center point location values and d) maintaining the original prescribed or interpolated tool center point orientation values not ignored. 2. Method according to claim 1, wherein step b) is done by an extent minimization algorithm. 3. Method according to claim 1, wherein the orientation remains of the tool center point constrained in two degrees of freedom, but is free to rotate about a single axis, such that the free axis can be ignored according to said step a). 4. Method according to claim 1, wherein the orientation of the tool center point is constrained in 1 degree of freedom, but is free to rotate about two axes, such that the free axes can be ignored according to said step a). 5. Method according to claim 1, wherein in the orientation of the tool center point is free to rotate about all three axes, such that the free axes can be ignored according to said step a). 6. Method according to claim 1, including carrying a load with at least two robots, such that an attachment of at least one robot to the load is via a universal joint. 7. Method according to claim 1, wherein an attachment of at least one robot to the load is via a hinge joint. 8. Method according to claim 1, wherein an attachment of at least one robot to the load is via a ball and a socket joint. 9. Method according to claim 1, wherein controlling at least one of said robots during interpolation of a trajectory comprises: a) ignoring at least one of the three originally prescribed or interpolated tool center point orientation values, b) finding new tool center point orientation values that place the wrist center point of the robot closest to its base while c) maintaining the originally prescribed or interpolated tool center point location values and d) maintaining the original prescribed or interpolated tool center point orientation values not ignored. 10. A system for controlling a robot for use during an interpolation of a trajectory or motion to any prescribed position, being designed a) to ignore at least one of the three originally prescribed or interpolated tool center point orientation values, b) to find new tool center point orientation values that place the wrist center point of the robot closest to its base while c) maintaining the originally prescribed or interpolated tool center point location values and d) maintaining the original prescribed or interpolated tool center point orientation values not ignored. 11. System according to claim 10 including an extent minimization algorithm for determining new tool center point orientation values. 12. System according to claim 10, wherein the orientation of the tool center point remains constrained in 2 DOF, but is free to rotate about a single axis, such that the free axis can be ignored according to said step a). 13. System according to claim 10, wherein the orientation of the tool center point is constrained in 1 DOF, but is free to rotate about two axes, such that the free axes can be ignored according to said step a). 14. System according to claim 10, wherein the orientation is free to rotate about all three axes, such that the free axes can be ignored according to said step a). 15. System according to claim 10, wherein the system includes at least two robots, carrying a load, wherein an attachment of at least one robot to the load is via a universal joint. 16. System according to claim 10, wherein an attachment of at least one robot to the load is via a ball and socket joint. 17. System according to claim 10, wherein an attachment of at least one robot to the load is via a hinge. 18. System according to claim 10, wherein an attachment of at least one robot to the load is via a universal joint and wherein at least one of said robots comprises a control system for use during an interpolation of a trajectory or motion to any prescribed position, said control system being designed a) to ignore at least one of the three originally prescribed or interpolated tool center point orientation values, b) to find new tool center point orientation values that place the wrist center point of the robot closest to its base while c) maintaining the originally prescribed or interpolated tool center point location values and d) maintaining the original prescribed or interpolated tool center point orientation values not ignored. 