A ground vehicle and a method for articulating a payload module for mobility assist are disclosed. The ground vehicle comprises a chassis; and a payload module capable of articulating relative to the chassis to assist the mobility of the ground vehicle. The method comprises articulating a payload module relative to a chassis.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A ground vehicle, comprising: a chassis, the chassis defining a payload bay; a payload module capable of articulating into and out of the payload bay and relative to the chassis to assist mobility of the ground vehicle: and an articulable coupling between the payload module and the chassis, the articulable coupling including: a rotating joint housed in and affixed to the chassis; an enclosure pivot coupled to the rotating joint; and a position lock. 2. The ground vehicle of claim 1, wherein the payload module articulates by rotating. 3. The ground vehicle of claim 2, wherein the payload module rotates through 180.degree.. 4. The ground vehicle of claim 3, wherein the rotation is .+-.90.degree. relative to a centerline of the chassis. 5. The ground vehicle of claim 1, wherein the payload module articulates to push against the ground. 6. The ground vehicle of claim 1, further comprising a payload housed in the payload module. 7. An apparatus comprising: a payload module; a chassis; and a vertically articulable coupling between the payload module and the chassis, the articulable coupling including: a rotating joint housed in and affixed to the chassis, the rotating joint comprising a centered shoulder joint; an enclosure pivot coupled to the rotating joint; and a position lock. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the articulable coupling is capable of articulating through 180.degree.. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the enclosure pivot comprises a sliding dog clutch. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the rotating joint includes: a housing to which the enclosure pivot may be attached for in-plane rotation; a drive; and a transmission engaged with the housing and the drive to reduce the speed of a drive motor of the drive as the drive motor drives the housing. 11. An apparatus comprising: a payload module; a chassis; and a vertically articulable coupling capable of articulating through 180.degree. between the payload module and the chassis, the articulable coupling including: a rotating joint housed in and affixed to the chassis; an enclosure pivot coupled to the rotating joint; and a position lock. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the articulable coupling includes a center shoulder joint. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the enclosure pivot comprises a sliding dog clutch. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the rotating joint includes: a housing to which the enclosure pivot may be attached for in-plane rotation; a drive; and a transmission engaged with the housing and the drive to reduce the speed of a drive motor of the drive as the drive motor drives the housing. 15. An apparatus comprising: a payload module; a chassis; and a vertically articulable coupling between the payload module and the chassis, the articulable coupling including: a rotating joint housed in and affixed to the chassis; an enclosure pivot comprising a sliding dog clutch coupled to the rotating joint; and a position lock. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the articulable coupling includes a center shoulder joint. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the articulable coupling is capable of articulating through 180.degree.. 18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the rotating joint includes: a housing to which the enclosure pivot may be attached for in-plane rotation; a drive; and a transmission engaged with the housing and the drive to reduce the speed of a drive motor of the drive as the drive motor drives the housing. 19. An apparatus comprising: a payload module; a chassis; and a vertically articulable coupling between the payload module and the chassis, the articulable coupling including: a rotating joint housed in and affixed to the chassis, including: a housing to which the enclosure pivot may be attached for in-plane rotation; a drive; and a transmission engaged with the housing and the drive to reduce the speed of a drive motor of the drive as the drive motor drives the housing; an enclosure pivot coupled to the rotating joint; and a position lock. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the articulable coupling includes a center shoulder joint. 21. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the articulable coupling is capable of articulating through 180.degree.. 22. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the enclosure pivot comprises a sliding dog clutch. 