A system and a method are disclosed for adaptive probabilistic tracking of an object within a motion video. The method utilizes a time-varying Eigenbasis and dynamic, observation and inference models. The Eigenbasis serves as a model of the target object. The dynamic model represents the motion of the object and defines possible locations of the target based upon previous locations. The observation model provides a measure of the distance of an observation of the object relative to the current Eigenbasis. The inference model predicts the most likely location of the object based upon past and present observations. The method is effective with or without training samples. A computer-based system provides a means for implementing the method. The effectiveness of the system and method are demonstrated through simulation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-based method for tracking a location of an object within two or more digital images of a set of digital images, the method comprising the steps of: receiving a first image vector representing a first image within the set of digital images; determining the location of the object from said first image vector, applying a dynamic model to said first image vector to determine a possible motion of the object between said first image vector and a successive image vector representing a second image within the set of digital images; applying an observation model to said first image vector to determine a most likely location of the object within said successive image vector from a set of possible locations of the object within said successive image vector; applying an inference model to said dynamic model and to said observation model to predict said most likely location of the object; and updating an Eigenbasis representing an image space of the two or more digital images. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said dynamic model represents linear translation, rotation, and scaling according to an affine warping. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said observation model comprises a probabilistic principal components distribution and represents a normal component of a distance between observations and said Eigenbasis. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said inference model comprises a sampling method that operates on successive pairs of the digital images of the set of digital images. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said updating an Eigenbasis comprises recursive singular value decomposition and application of a sequential Karhunen-Loeve algorithm. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said dynamic model represents linear translation, rotation, scaling, aspect ratio and skew according to an affine warping. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said observation model comprises a probabilistic principal components distribution and represents orthonormal components of a distance between observations and said Eigenbasis. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said inference model operates over a sliding window comprising a selectable number of successive of the digital images of the set of digital images. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said updating an Eigenbasis comprises recursive singular value decomposition and application of a sequential Karhunen-Loeve algorithm and accounts for variations in the sample mean. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of constructing an initial Eigenbasis representing said image space of the two or more digital images. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said dynamic model represents linear translation, rotation, and scaling according to an affine warping. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein said observation model comprises a probabilistic principal components distribution and represents a normal component of a distance between observations and said Eigenbasis. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein said inference model comprises a simple sampling method that operates on successive pairs of the digital images of the set of digital images. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein said updating an Eigenbasis comprises recursive singular value decomposition and application of a sequential Karhunen-Loeve algorithm. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein said dynamic model represents linear translation, rotation, scaling, aspect ratio and skew according to an affine warping. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein said observation model comprises a probabilistic principal components distribution and represents orthonormal components of a distance between observations and said Eigenbasis. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein said inference model operates over a sliding window comprising a selectable number of successive of the digital images of the set of digital images. 18. The method of claim 10, wherein said updating an Eigenbasis comprises recursive singular value decomposition and application of a sequential Karhunen-Loeve algorithm and accounts for variations in the sample mean. 19. A computer system for tracking the location of an object within two or more digital images of a set of digital images, the system comprising: means for receiving a first image vector representing a first image within the set of digital images; means for determining the location of the object from said first image vector; means for applying a dynamic model to said first image vector to determine a possible motion of the object between said first image vector and a successive image vector representing a second image within the set of digital images; means for applying an observation model to said first image vector to determine a most likely location of the object within said successive image vector from a set of possible locations of the object within said successive image vector; means for applying an inference model to said dynamic model and to said observation model to predict said most likely location of the object; and means for updating an Eigenbasis representing an image space of the two or more digital images. 20. The system of claim 19, further comprising means for constructing an initial Eigenbasis representing said image space of the two or more digital images. 21. An image processing computer system for tracking the location of an object within a set of digital images, comprising: an input module for receiving data representative of the set of digital images; a memory device coupled to said input module for storing said data representative of the set of digital images; a processor coupled to said memory device for iteratively retrieving data representative of two or more digital images of the set of digital images, said processor configured to: apply a dynamic model to a first digital image of said two or more digital images to determine a possible motion of the object between said first digital image of said two or more digital images and a successive digital image of said two or more digital images; apply an observation model to said first digital image to determine a most likely location of the object within said successive digital image from a set of possible locations of the object within said successive digital image; apply an inference model to said dynamic model and to said observation model to predict said most likely location of the object within said successive digital image; and update an Eigenbasis representing an image space of said two or more digital images. 