A method is described for releasing a soluble or membrane associated intracellular protein of interest (POI) comprising the steps of: providing a cell comprising a soluble or membrane associated intracellular POI; contacting the cell with a membrane extracting composition; and causing the POI to be released from the cell under conditions sufficient for the specific release of the POI and in a soluble form.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for extracting a soluble or membrane associated intracellular recombinant protein of interest (POI) from a bacterial, yeast or fungal cell, the POI being released from the bacterial, yeast or fungal cell, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a bacterial, yeast or fungal cell comprising a soluble or membrane associated intracellular recombinant POI; (b) releasing the recombinant POI from the cell by contacting the cell with a membrane extracting composition comprising a quaternary ammonium compound at a concentration of between 0.05% to 0.6% by weight, under conditions sufficient for the release of the recombinant POI in a soluble form; and, (c) recovering the recombinant POI from the membrane extracting composition; wherein the quaternary ammonium compound is selected from the group consisting of Lauroyl Trimethyl Ammonium Bromide (LTAB), Myristyl Trimethyl Ammonium Chloride (MTAC), CetylTrimethyl Ammonium Chloride (CTAC), Cetrimide, Cetyl Trimethyl Ammonium Bromide (CTAB), Stearoyl Trimethyl Ammonium Chloride (STAC), Stearoyl Trimethyl Ammonium Bromide (STAB), Benzalkonium Chloride (alkyldimethylbenzylammonium chloride), N-Cetylpyridinium Bromide (N-Hexadecylpyridinium bromide), N-Cetylpyridinium Chloride (N-Hexadecylpyridinium chloride), Benzyl Dimethyl Tetradecyl Ammonium Chloride, Benzyl Dimethyl Hexadecyl Ammonium Chloride and a combination of any two or more thereof, and wherein the recombinant POI is a hexose oxidase (HOX) enzyme. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the membrane extracting composition comprises from about 0.1% to about 0.5% by weight of the quaternary ammonium compound. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the membrane extracting composition comprises from about 0.2% to about 0.45% by weight of the quaternary ammonium compound. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the membrane extracting composition comprises about 0.4% by weight of the quaternary ammonium compound. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cell is contacted with the membrane extracting composition at temperatures from about 4.degree. C. to 40.degree. C. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the cell is contacted with the membrane extracting composition at temperatures from about 20.degree. C. to about 30.degree. C. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the cell is contacted with the membrane extracting composition at temperatures from about 25.degree. C. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cell is contacted with the membrane extracting composition at a pH of from about 2.0 to about 11.0. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the cell is contacted with the membrane extracting composition at a pH of from about 5.0 to about 7.0. 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the cell is contacted with the membrane extracting composition at a pH of from about 6.3. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the hexose oxidase (HOX) enzyme comprises the amino acid sequence set out in SEQ ID No 23. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the hexose oxidase (HOX) enzyme is encoded by the nucleotide sequence set out in SEQ ID No 22. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the hexose oxidase (HOX) enzyme is encoded by sequence complementary to a nucleotide sequence capable of hybridizing to the nucleotide sequence set out in SEQ ID No 22. 