The present invention provides methods for diagnosing mental disorders such as mood disorders, including bipolar disorder I and II and major depression. The invention also provides methods of identifying modulators of such mental disorders as well as methods of using these modulators to treat patients suffering from such mental disorders.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the likelihood that a human subject has major depression disorder, the method comprising the steps of: (i) isolating a subject's brain tissue, wherein the brain tissue is dorsolateral prefrontal cortex tissue; (ii) contacting the subject's isolated brain tissue with a nucleic acid probe which is at least 95% complementary to SEQ ID NO:1; (iii) detecting the level of probe that associates with said subject's FGFR2 mRNA; and (iv) comparing the detected level of associated probe with a control, whereby if the detected level is less than the control, an increased likelihood that the subject has major depression disorder is determined; and whereby, if the detected level is not less than the control, an increase in said likelihood is not determined by the method. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid probe is fully complementary to SEQ ID NO:1. 3. A method for determining the likelihood that a deceased human subject had major depression disorder, the method comprising the steps of: (i) isolating a subject's brain tissue, wherein the brain tissue is dorsolateral prefrontal cortex tissue; (ii) contacting the subject's isolated brain tissue with a nucleic acid probe which is at least 95% complementary to SEQ ID NO:1; (iii) detecting the level of probe that associates with said subject's FGFR2 mRNA; and (iv) comparing the detected level of associated probe with a control, whereby if the detected level is less than the control, an increased likelihood that the subject has major depression disorder is determined; and whereby, if the detected level is not less than the control, an increase in said likelihood is not determined by the method. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein said nucleic acid probe is fully complementary to SEQ ID NO:1. 