The present invention provides methods and compositions for use in rapid test or prediction of the propensity of a test compound to induce cholesterol reduction in a subject. The invention also includes a cholesterol reduction signature as well as the method of deriving such signature.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for testing the propensity of a test compound to reduce serum cholesterol in a subject, the method comprising: a) administering an effective amount of the test compound to a rat for a selected period of time; b) determining the change in expression level of each of a plurality of cholesterol reduction indicator genes in a liver tissue sample from said rat, wherein said plurality of indicator genes comprises the genes with GenBank accession numbers: BF553500 (SEQ ID NO: 1), D86345 (SEQ ID NO: 2), NM.sub.--012521 (SEQ ID NO: 3), and NM.sub.--013033 (SEQ ID NO: 4); c) determining the statistical significance of the change in the expression level of each of said cholesterol reduction indicator genes; d) assigning a probability of serum cholesterol reduction due to said test compound if each of said plurality of indicator genes exhibits a statistically significant increase in expression level equal to or greater than its mean T.sub.g value listed in Table 2. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said selected period of time is at least three days. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said selected period of time is five days. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said probability is assigned by any one of the following methods; Euclidian distance, Pearson's correlation coefficient, or signature projection score. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said probability is assigned by calculating a signature projection score (SPS), wherein said SPS is calculated according to the equation: .times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00003## wherein X.sub.g.sup.t is the test compound gene expression level under dose/time treatment t for the selected indicator gene g, T.sub.g is the treated gene expression level, for the selected indicator gene g, R.sub.g is the reference gene expression level, for the selected indicator gene g, and S.sub.g is the scaling factor for the contribution of each indicator gene to the SPS, whereby the SPS for said test compound indicates the probability of cholesterol reduction. 