The invention relates to alpha amylases and to polynucleotides encoding the alpha amylases. In addition methods of designing new alpha amylases and methods of use thereof are also provided. The alpha amylases have increased activity and stability at acidic, neutral and alkaline pH and increased temperature.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid comprising: (a) a nucleic acid sequence encoding a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, wherein the nucleic acid sequence has at least 95% sequence identity to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:125, (b) a nucleic acid sequence encoding a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, wherein the polypeptide comprises (i) an amino acid sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:126, or (ii) enzymatically active fragments of (i); (c) the nucleic acid of (a) or (b) encoding a polypeptide having at least one conservative amino acid substitution as compared to the polypeptide encoded by (a) or (b), wherein the conservative amino acid substitutions comprise: replacement of an aliphatic amino acid with another aliphatic amino acid; replacement of a Serine with a Threonine or vice versa; replacement of an acidic residue with another acidic residue; replacement of a residue bearing an amide group with another residue bearing an amide group; exchange of a basic residue with another basic residue; or replacement of an aromatic residue with another aromatic residue; (d) the nucleic acid of (a), (b) or (c) encoding a polypeptide lacking a signal sequence; (e) the nucleic acid of (a), (b), (c) or (d) further comprising a heterologous sequence; (f) the nucleic acid of (e), wherein the heterologous sequence comprises a sequence encoding a heterologous signal sequence; (g) the nucleic acid of (e), wherein the heterologous sequence comprises a sequence encoding an N-terminal identification peptide; or (h) sequences completely complementary to (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g). 2. The isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the sequence identity of (a) or (b) is at least 97%. 3. The isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the sequence identity of (a) or (b) is at least 98%. 4. The isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the sequence identity of (a) or (b) is at least 99%. 5. A nucleic acid probe for identifying or isolating an amylase-encoding gene, comprising the nucleic acid of claim 1. 6. The nucleic acid probe of claim 5, wherein the nucleic acid comprises DNA or RNA. 7. The nucleic acid probe of claim 5, wherein the probe further comprises a detectable isotopic label. 8. The nucleic acid probe of claim 5, wherein the probe further comprises a detectable non-isotopic label selected from the group consisting of a fluorescent molecule, a chemiluminescent molecule, an enzyme, a cofactor, an enzyme substrate, and a hapten. 9. A cloning or expression vector comprising a sequence that encodes a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, said sequence comprising the nucleic acid sequence of claim 1. 10. The cloning or expression vector of claim 9, wherein the vector is selected from the group consisting of viral vectors, plasmid vectors, phage vectors, phagemid vectors, cosmids, fosmids, bacteriophages, artificial chromosomes, adenovirus vectors, retroviral vectors, and adeno-associated viral vectors. 11. An isolated or cultured host cell comprising a nucleic acid having a sequence that encodes a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, said sequence comprising the nucleic acid sequence of claim 1. 12. A method of producing a polypeptide having amylase activity, comprising the steps of: providing the amylase-encoding nucleic acid of claim 1; and introducing the nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide, operably linked to a promoter, into a host cell under conditions that allow expression of the polypeptide. 13. A method of producing a polypeptide encoded by the nucleic acid of claim 1, comprising the steps of introducing the nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide into a host cell under conditions that allow expression of the polypeptide, wherein the expressed polypeptide has alpha amylase activity. 14. A method for producing a feed or food comprising a recombinant amylase, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing the amylase encoding nucleic acid of claim 1; (b) providing a composition comprising a feed or food; (c) expressing the nucleic acid to produce a recombinant amylase; and (d) mixing the recombinant amylase and the feed-comprising or food-comprising composition, thereby producing a feed or food comprising a recombinant amylase. 15. An isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid that hybridizes under stringent conditions to SEQ ID NO:125, or its complement, wherein the nucleic acid comprises a sequence selected from the group consisting of: (a) a nucleic acid sequence encoding a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, wherein the nucleic acid sequence has at least 90% sequence identity to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:125, or its complement; (b) a nucleic acid sequence (i) encoding a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, wherein the polypeptide comprises (A) an amino acid sequence having at least 90% sequence identity to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:126, or (B) enzymatically active fragments of (A), or (ii) completely complementary to (i); (c) the nucleic acid of (a) or (b) encoding a polypeptide lacking a signal sequence; (d) the nucleic acid of (a), (b) or (c) further comprising a heterologous sequence; (e) the nucleic acid of (d), wherein the heterologous sequence comprises a sequence encoding a heterologous signal sequence; (f) the nucleic acid of (e), wherein the heterologous sequence comprises a sequence encoding an N-terminal identification peptide; and (g) sequences completely complementary to (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f); wherein the stringent conditions comprise a wash step comprising 30 minutes at room temperature in a solution comprising 150 mM NaCl, 20 mM Tris hydrochloride, pH 7.8, 1 mM Na2EDTA, 0.5% SDS, followed by a 30 minute wash in fresh solution at Tm-10.degree. C. 16. The isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid of claim 15, wherein the nucleic acid sequence identity is determined by using a method comprising use of a BLASTN program algorithm with default parameters or the polypeptide sequence identity is determined by using a method comprising use of a BLAST P program algorithm with default parameters. 17. The isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid of claim 15, wherein the sequence identity is determined using a sequence comparison algorithm comprising FASTA version 3.0t78 with the default parameters. 18. The isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid of claim 15, wherein the sequence identity of (a) or (b) is at least 95%. 19. The isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid of claim 15, wherein the sequence identity in (a) or (b) is 97%. 20. The isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid of claim 19, wherein the sequence identity in (a) or (b) is 98%. 21. The isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid of claim 20, wherein the sequence in (a) is SEQ ID NO:125, and the sequence in (b) is SEQ ID NO:126. 22. A probe comprising the nucleic acid of claim 15. 23. A vector comprising a nucleic acid that encodes a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, said nucleic acid comprising the nucleic acid of claim 15. 24. The vector of claim 23, wherein the vector is selected from the group consisting of viral vectors, plasmid vectors, phage vectors, phagemid vectors, cosmids, fosmids, bacteriophages, artificial chromosomes, adenovirus vectors, retroviral vectors, and adeno-associated viral vectors. 25. An expression or cloning vector comprising the nucleic acid of claim 15. 26. An isolated or cultured host cell comprising a nucleic acid that encodes a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, said nucleic acid comprising the nucleic acid of claim 15. 27. The isolated or cultured host cell of claim 26, wherein the host is selected from the group consisting of prokaryotes, eukaryotes, funguses, yeasts, and plants. 28. An isolated or cultured host cell comprising the vector of claim 23. 29. A method of producing a polypeptide encoded by the nucleic acid of claim 15, comprising the steps of introducing a nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide into a host cell under conditions that allow expression of the polypeptide, wherein the expressed polypeptide has alpha amylase activity. 30. A method for producing a feed or food comprising a recombinant amylase, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing the amylase-encoding nucleic acid of claim 15; (b) providing a composition comprising a feed or food; (c) expressing the nucleic acid to produce a recombinant amylase; and (d) mixing the recombinant amylase and the feed-comprising or food-comprising composition, thereby producing a feed or food comprising a recombinant amylase. 31. An isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity that hybridizes under stringent conditions to a sequence selected from the group consisting of: (a) the sequence of SEQ ID NO:125; (b) sequences completely complementary to (a); wherein the stringent conditions comprise a wash step comprising 30 minutes at room temperature in a solution comprising 150 mM NaCl, 20 mM Tris hydrochloride, pH 7.8, 1 mM Na.sub.2EDTA, 0.5% SDS, followed by a 30 minute wash in fresh solution at Tm-10.degree. C., and wherein the sequence encodes a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity. 32. The isolated, synthetic or recombinant nucleic acid of claim 15 or claim 31, wherein the Tm=81.5+16.6(log [Na+])+0.41(fraction G+C)-(0.63% formamide) -(600/N) where N is the length of the nucleic acid. 33. A method for producing a feed or food comprising a recombinant amylase, the method comprising: (a) providing a nucleic acid comprising the nucleic acid of claim 31; (b) providing a composition comprising a feed or food; (c) expressing the nucleic acid to produce a recombinant amylase; and (d) mixing the recombinant amylase and the feed-comprising or food-comprising composition, thereby producing a feed or food comprising a recombinant amylase. 34. A method of producing a polypeptide having (i) an amino acid sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:126, or (ii) enzymatically active fragments of (i), comprising the steps of introducing a nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide into a host cell under conditions that allow expression of the polypeptide, wherein the expressed polypeptide has alpha amylase activity. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the polypeptide sequence identity is determined by using a method comprising use of a BLAST P algorithm with default parameters. 36. The method of claim 34, wherein the method produces a polypeptide having (i) an amino acid sequence having at least 97% sequence identity to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:126, or (ii) enzymatically active fragments of (i). 