A printhead assembly is provided comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and comprising a casing comprising a support frame removably mounting the at least one printhead module and at least one clamping arrangement clamping the at least one printhead module to the support frame. The clamped printhead module and the at least one clamping arrangement are substantially positionally independent of the casing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: a printhead module with a support member for supporting at least two printhead integrated circuits having nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, the support member being configured to carry the printing fluid to the printhead integrated circuits; and a casing with a clamping arrangement for removably mounting the printhead module; wherein, the clamping arrangement can mount the module to the casing at plurality of positions relative to the casing. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1 wherein the clamping arrangement has locking members for interlocking with lug members on the printhead module. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2 wherein the casing has a support member with a series of longitudinally extending tabs such that the lug members on the printhead modules are arranged along the tabs and are spaced so as to correspond to the mounted positions of the printhead integrated circuits, and the locking members of the clamping arrangement are provided as recessed portions each arranged so as to engage with one of the lug members on clamped the longitudinally extending tab. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the support member includes the longitudinally extending tabs on the two parallel sides thereof, the support frame comprises a first side wall having a longitudinally extending recessed groove and a second side wall substantially parallel to the first side wall, and the longitudinally extending tab on one side of the support member is received in the longitudinally extending recessed groove of the support frame and the longitudinally extending tab on the other side of the support member is received on an upper surface of the second side wall of the support frame. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 4, wherein the clamping arrangement comprises at least one extending arm portion for clamping the longitudinally extending tab of the support member to the upper surface of the second side wall of the support frame. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, the at least one extending arm portion includes at least one of the recessed portions of the clamping arrangement. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the casing has a support member against which the printhead module is mounted via the clamping arrangement; the printhead module further comprises an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits; and the printhead assembly further comprises drive electronics removably mounted to the casing by the clamping arrangement, the drive electronics being arranged to control the printing operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector. 8. A printhead assembly according to claim 7, wherein: the printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least one fluid distribution member mounting the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated-nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 