A riveting yoke assembly (11) comprises a yoke (30), a force applying mechanism (22) and a rivet forming device (34, 36). The yoke has a first end (38), a second end (40), and a middle section (42) coupled between the first and second ends (38, 40). An opening (44) is formed through the yoke between the first and second ends. The force applying mechanism (22) is coupled to the first end (38) of the yoke (30). The lower rivet forming device (36) is removably coupled to the second end (40) of the yoke. The lower rivet forming device (36) has a base end (46) attached to the second end (40) of the yoke (30) and a forming end (48) with a recess (50) to form rivets (17). The recess (50) has a concave, interior surface (52) having an annular step (54) positioned between a top edge (56) of the interior surface (52) and a bottom-most point (58) of the interior surface (52) in order to properly align the rivet (17).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a rivet to join a plurality of members utilizing a riveting apparatus including a force applying mechanism having a hydraulic cylinder and a piston, a forming assembly having upper and lower forming devices, a pressure transducer operatively coupled to the hydraulic cylinder to provide a pressure signal, a position transducer operatively coupled to the piston to provide a linear position signal, and a controller operatively coupled to the pressure transducer and the position transducer to compare the pressure signal and the linear position signal and generate an axis motion profile, the method comprising the steps of: positioning the plurality of members between the upper and lower forming devices; providing the rivet to be formed disposed through the plurality of members; extending the piston to urge the upper forming device towards the lower forming device; monitoring the pressure signal while extending the piston; monitoring the linear position signal while extending the piston; comparing the pressure signal and the linear position signal; generating the axis motion profile to determine whether the linear position of the piston and the pressure of the hydraulic cylinder are within predetermined set limits; and controlling the piston based on the axis motion profile. 2. A method of forming a rivet to join a plurality of members utilizing a riveting apparatus, the riveting apparatus including a force applying mechanism having a hydraulic cylinder and a piston, a forming assembly having upper and lower forming devices, a pressure transducer operatively coupled to the hydraulic cylinder to provide a pressure signal, a position transducer operatively coupled to the piston to provide a linear position signal, and a controller operatively coupled to the pressure transducer and the position transducer, the method comprising the steps of: positioning the plurality of members between the upper and lower forming devices; positioning the rivet between the upper and lower forming devices and disposing the rivet through the plurality of members; pressurizing the cylinder to exert pressure on the piston and generate a pressure signal; extending the piston to move the upper forming device towards the lower forming device; obtaining a pressure signal from the pressure transducer of the pressure from the piston on the rivet; obtaining a linear position signal from the position transducer of the position of the upper forming device relative to the rivet; comparing the pressure signal and the linear position signal; generating comparison data from the pressure signal and linear position signal; and controlling the riveting apparatus to exert pressure and movement of the piston and upper forming device on the rivet based at least in part on the comparison data. 3. The method according to claim 2, further including the step of programming the controller with stored predetermined desired fluid pressure levels. 4. The method according to claim 3, further including the step of comparing the pressure signal provided from the pressure transducer with the predetermined desired pressure level stored in the controller. 5. The method according to claim 4, further including the step of generating an axis motion profile based on the position of the upper forming device relative to the rivet and the pressure exerted on the rivet. 6. The method according to claim 5, further including the step of comparing the axis motion profile with the predetermined desired fluid pressure levels stored in the controller. 7. The method according to claim 6, further including the step of controlling the riveting apparatus based on the comparison of the axis motion profile with the predetermined desired fluid pressure level to maintain a desired pressure on the rivet. 8. The method according to claim 7, further including the step of controlling the riveting apparatus based on the comparison of the axis motion profile with the linear position signal to adjust the pressure on the hydraulic cylinder and piston. 