Locating desired placement locations of brackets for a patient's teeth includes obtaining an array of data points from a cast of the teeth and generating a virtual model from the array of scanned data points. Individual teeth from the virtual model can be manually severed or "cut" and manually dragged from a start position to a finished position to determine a treatment plan. The orthodontist virtually marks the position on the virtual model where a physical bracket is desired. Brackets can then be automatically placed onto a cast of the teeth at corresponding positions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer implemented method of automatic placement of brackets onto locations on a cast for creation of an indirect bonding tray, the method comprising: displaying an electronic model image corresponding to a cast of a patient, the cast including the individual teeth of the patient in start positions; storing an array of start coordinates for the individual teeth; storing an array of finish coordinates when the teeth have been moved to finish positions; storing an array of bracket placement locations for one or more of the individual teeth with respect to the finish positions; calculating bracket placement locations in connection with the start positions based on the stored start and finish coordinates, wherein calculating the bracket placement locations in connection with the start positions includes transforming the bracket placement locations with respect to the finish positions with an inverse matrix, the inverse matrix being generated based on the stored start coordinates and, finish coordinates for the individual teeth, and wherein the bracket placement locations can be viewed with the teeth in the start positions; and automatically placing brackets onto the cast at the bracket placement locations calculated in connection with the start positions. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating an output file including the bracket placement locations in connection with the start positions and transmitting the output file to a placement device configured to automatically place the brackets onto the cast. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising manually cutting the electronic model image into individual teeth. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising automatically cutting the electronic image into individual teeth. 5. The method of claim 4, comprising: determining possible vertical cut lines within a vertical plane cut through the electronic model image corresponding to possible separation lines between teeth; and automatically determining locations of individual teeth using the possible vertical cut lines. 6. A system for automatic placement of brackets at locations on a cast for creation of an indirect bonding tray, the system comprising: means for displaying an electronic model image corresponding to a cast of a patient with individual teeth in start positions; means for storing an array of start coordinates for the individual teeth; means for storing an array of finish coordinates when the individual teeth are moved to finish positions; means for storing an array of bracket placement locations for one or more of the individual teeth with respect to the finish positions; means for calculating bracket placement locations in connection with the start positions based on the stored start and finish coordinates, wherein calculating the bracket placement locations in connection with the start positions includes transforming the bracket placement locations with respect to the finish positions with an inverse matrix, the inverse matrix being generated based on the stored start coordinates and finish coordinates for the individual teeth, and wherein the bracket placement locations can be viewed with the individual teeth in the start positions; and means for automatically placing brackets onto the cast at the bracket placement locations calculated in connection with the start positions. 7. The system of claim 6, further comprising; means for generating an output file with the bracket placement locations in connection with the start positions; and means for transmitting the output file to the means for automatically placing brackets. 8. The system of claim 6, further comprising the means for manually cutting the electronic model image into individual teeth. 9. The system of claim 6, further comprising means for automatically cutting the electronic image into individual teeth. 10. The system of claim 9, comprising: means for determining possible vertical cut lines within a vertical plane cut through the electronic model image corresponding to possible separation lines between individual teeth; and means for automatically determining locations of individual teeth using the possible vertical cut lines. 11. A system for automatic placement of brackets at locations on a cast for creation of an indirect bonding tray, the apparatus comprising: a) a video display unit, the video display unit arranged and configured to display electronic model images; b) a plurality of memory locations; c) an input device for accepting input data from a user and for transmitting the input data; and d) a processor operatively connected to the video display unit, the memory locations, and the input device, the processor arranged and configured to accept the transmitted input data, to process data, and to store and retrieve data from the memory locations, wherein the processor; i) determines an array of start coordinates for individual teeth and stores the start coordinate array in the memory locations; ii) determines an array of finish coordinates for individual teeth, subsequent to the individual teeth being moved to finish locations via the input device, and stores the finish coordinate array in the memory locations; iii) stores an array of bracket placement locations in the memory locations, the bracket placement locations provided by input data from the input device when the individual teeth are in the finish locations; and iv) calculates the bracket placement locations in connection with the start locations based on the stored start and finish coordinate arrays, wherein calculating the bracket placement locations in connection with the start locations includes transfonning the bracket lacement locations with respect to the finish locations with an inverse matrix, the inverse matrix being generated based on the stored start locations and finish locations for the individual teeth, and wherein the bracket mark locations can be viewed with the individual teeth in the start locations; e) a placement device for transferring brackets to the stored bracket placement locations calculated in connection with the start positions on a cast. 12. A method for automatic placement of brackets on a cast, comprising: providing tooling on the cast, the tooling configured to place the cast in a repeatable position and orientation within a known coordinate system; scanning the cast to obtain start position data within the known coordinate system; generating a digital model of the cast based on the start position data; transforming at least a portion of the digital model; determining finish position data of the transformed digital model; choosing finish bracket placement locations on the transformed digital model; calculating start bracket placement locations based on the finish bracket placement locations, the start position data, and the finish position data, wherein calculating the start bracket placement locations includes transforming the finish bracket placement locations with an inverse matrix, the inverse matrix being generated based on the start position data and the finish position data, and; mapping the start bracket placement locations to physical bracket placement locations within the known coordinate system on the cast; and automatically placing brackets onto the cast at the physical bracket placement locations. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: placing the cast and the tooling on a bracket placement device, the tooling arranged and configured to position and orient the cast on the bracket placement device in the repeatable position within the known coordinate system. 