An apparatus for concentrating and collecting one or more analytes in a flowing liquid stream of a carrier solvent composed of one or more solvent components is provided, which includes a transfer tube which forms a bore having an inlet and an outlet, the inlet being adapted to accept the flowing liquid stream, and the outlet being adapted to form continuously replaced, hanging droplets of the liquid stream, and a collection device mounted below the outlet of the transfer tube for collecting the droplets. The apparatus includes a device for heating the liquid stream in the transfer tube to a temperature sufficient to cause partial evaporation of the carrier solvent from the hanging droplets but not exceeding the boiling point of the carrier solvent, and a device for heating the collection device to a temperature sufficient to cause further evaporation of the carrier solvent from the collected droplets. Also provided is a method for concentrating and collecting one or more analytes in a flowing liquid stream of a carrier solvent composed of one or more solvent components. The method includes the steps of introducing the liquid stream into a transfer tube which forms a bore having an inlet and an outlet, the inlet being adapted to accept the flowing liquid stream, and the outlet being adapted to form continuously replaced, hanging droplets of the liquid stream, and heating the liquid stream in the transfer tube while controlling the temperature of the liquid stream in the transfer tube to be sufficient to cause partial evaporation of the carrier solvent from the hanging droplets without exceeding the boiling point of the carrier solvent. The method allows the droplets to dislodge from the outlet, and the droplet is collected on a collection device mounted below the outlet of the transfer tube. The collection device is also heated to a temperature sufficient to cause further evaporation of the carrier solvent from the collected droplets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for concentrating and collecting one or more analytes in a flowing liquid stream of a carrier solvent composed of one or more solvent components, comprising: a transfer tube which forms a bore having an inlet and an outlet, the inlet being adapted to accept the flowing liquid stream; a heating device for heating the liquid stream in the transfer tube, the heating device being a heating coil, heated tape, or heated block positioned around a portion of the transfer tube to provide a heated portion of the transfer tube; the transfer tube having a vertical portion forming an extension line which extends below the heated portion of the transfer tube and forms the outlet, the outlet being adapted to form continuously replaced, hanging droplets of the liquid stream; the heating device being temperature adjustable for heating the liquid stream in the transfer tube to a temperature sufficient to cause partial evaporation of the carrier solvent from the hanging droplets but not exceeding the boiling point of the carrier solvent; a collection device mounted in a horizontal plane below the outlet of the transfer tube for collecting the droplets; a device for heating the collection device to a temperature sufficient to cause further evaporation of the carrier solvent; and a robot device adapted for X-Y or X-Y-Z motion, with X-Y being in the horizontal plane and Z being in a vertical plane, associated with one or both of the collection device and the transfer tube such that the apparatus achieves relative X-Y or X-Y-Z motion of the transfer tube and the collection device. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the robot device is programmable for the motion and the timing of the motion. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the device for heating the collection device is temperature adjustable, and wherein the temperature of the collection device is at or above the boiling point of the least volatile solvent component. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the device for heating the collection device uses one or more of a heating coil, heated tape, or heated block. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transfer tube is formed from or in contact with a heat conductive material, wherein the outlet of the transfer tube is formed from or includes a material which reduces the surface tension of the droplet, and wherein the transfer tube comprises either one or more aligned sections of tubing each forming a bore therethrough, or a block formed with one or more aligned channels each forming a bore therethrough. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the outlet of each bore has a diameter between about 5 and 500 .mu.m. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the outlet of each bore has a diameter between about 50 and 200 .mu.m. 8. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the collection device is formed from or uses a material which is heat conductive and which reduces analyte adsorption, and wherein the collection device is formed with a plurality of spaced structures for confining and retaining the droplets. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the collection device is a plate or target and the spaced structures are wells. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, which further comprises a gas drying device adapted to direct a non-reactive drying gas at one or both of the outlet of the transfer tube and the collection device. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the gas drying device is adapted to heat the drying gas. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the gas drying device is adapted to adjust one or both of the temperature and the flow rate of the drying gas. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, which further comprises a device for dislodging the hanging droplets from the outlet. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the device for dislodging the droplets is adapted to dislodge the droplets piezoelectrically, electrically, ultrasonically, magnetically, using a pulsed non-reactive gas, or by blotting the droplet onto the collection device. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, which further comprises a housing or exhaust system to remove or contain the evaporated carrier solvent. 16. The apparatus of claim 2, which further comprises a detector directed to respond to the one or more analytes in the liquid stream, and wherein the timing of the motion of the robotic device is controlled in relation to detected analytes. 17. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the collection device is a target for laser desorption ionization formed with a plurality of wells having openings sized between about 0.2 and 5 mm in diameter. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the inlet is adapted to receive the effluent from a liquid chromatograph or a flow injection system. 19. A method for concentrating and collecting one or more analytes in a flowing liquid stream of a carrier solvent composed of one or more solvent components, comprising: providing a transfer tube which forms a bore having an inlet and an outlet, the inlet being adapted to accent the flowing liquid stream, and the outlet being adapted to form continuously replaced, hanging droplets of the liquid stream; providing a heating device for heating the liquid stream, the heating device being a heating coil, heated tape, or heated block positioned around a portion of the transfer tube to provide a heated portion of the transfer tube; introducing the liquid stream into a the transfer tube; allowing the liquid stream to flow through the heated portion of the transfer tube into a vertical extension portion of the transfer tube which extends below the heated portion of the transfer tube and forms the outlet; heating the liquid stream in the transfer tube with the heating device while controlling the temperature of the liquid stream in the transfer tube to a temperature sufficient to cause partial evaporation of the carrier solvent from the hanging droplets without exceeding the boiling point of the carrier solvent; allowing the droplet to dislodge from the outlet of the transfer tube; collecting the droplets on a collection device mounted in a horizontal plane below the outlet of the transfer tube; moving one or both of the collection device and the transfer tube in X-Y or X-Y-Z directions, with X-Y being in the horizontal plane and Z being in a vertical plane, to achieve relative X-Y or X-Y-Z motion of the transfer tube and the collection device so as to collect discrete fractions on the collection device; and heating the collection device to a temperature sufficient to cause further evaporation of the carrier solvent from the collected droplets. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein a programmable robotic device is used for the motion and the timing of the motion. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein one or both of the heating steps is temperature adjustable, and wherein the collection device is heated to a temperature which is at or above the boiling point of the least volatile solvent component. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the transfer tube is formed from or in contact with a heat conductive material, wherein the outlet of the transfer tube is formed from or includes a material which reduces the surface tension of the droplet, and wherein the transfer tube comprises either one or more aligned sections of tubing each forming a bore therethrough, or a block formed with one or more aligned channels each forming a bore therethrough. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the outlet of each bore has a diameter between about 5 and 500 .mu.m. 24. The method of claim 19, wherein the outlet of each bore has a diameter between about 50 and 200 .mu.m. 25. The method of claim 19, wherein the collection device is formed from or uses a material which is heat conductive and which reduces analyte adsorption, and wherein the collection device is formed with a plurality of spaced structures for confining and retaining the droplets. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the collection device is a plate or target and the spaced structures are wells. 27. The method of claim 19, which further comprises directing non-reactive drying gas at one or both of the hanging droplets and the collection device. 28. The method of claim 27, which includes heating the drying gas. 29. The method of claim 28, which includes adjusting one or both of the temperature and the flow rate of the drying gas. 30. The method of claim 19, which further comprises mechanically dislodging the hanging droplets from the outlet. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the hanging droplets are dislodged piezoelectrically, electrically, ultrasonically, magnetically, using a pulsed non-reactive gas, or by blotting the droplet onto the collection device. 32. The method of claim 19, which further comprises removing or containing the evaporated carrier solvent. 33. The method of claim 21, which further comprises detecting the one or more analytes in the liquid stream and controlling the timing of the motion in response to the detected analytes. 34. The method of claim 26, wherein the collection device is a target for laser desorption ionization formed with a plurality of wells having openings sized between about 0.2 and 5 mm in diameter. 35. The method of claim 19, wherein the flowing liquid stream is the effluent from a liquid chromatograph or a flow injection system. 