A parallel reactor system including a reactor and vessels in the reactor for holding reaction mixtures, and a cannula for introducing fluid reaction material into the vessels. A robot system is operable to insert the cannula into cannula passages in the reactor for delivery of reaction materials, including condensed gases, to respective vessels, and to withdraw the cannula from the cannula passages after delivery. Related methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of delivering a low boiling reaction material to a reactor comprising a reaction vessel, a passage communicating with said vessel and a sealing mechanism in the passage, said method comprising: pressurizing the reaction vessel, inserting a cannula of a condensate transfer system into said passage of said reactor to a position past said sealing mechanism, said condensate transfer system comprising a source of the low boiling reaction material and a flow path for the low boiling reaction material from said source to said cannula, introducing the low boiling reaction material into said cannula through said flow path, the low boiling reaction material introduced into said cannula comprising liquid phase condensate, delivering the liquid phase condensate of the low boiling reaction material from the cannula into said reaction vessel. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising withdrawing the cannula from said passage and sealing said passage upon withdrawal of the cannula from said passage. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the reaction vessel is pressurized prior to delivery of the liquid phase condensate into said reaction vessel. 4. The method as set forth in claim 3 wherein the reaction vessel is pressurized prior to delivery of the liquid phase condensate into said reaction vessel by introducing gas-phase low boiling reaction material into said reaction vessel. 5. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the reaction vessel is pressurized upon delivery of the liquid phase condensate into said reaction vessel. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said source of the low boiling reaction material is maintained at a pressure at least as great as the vapor pressure of the low boiling reaction material condensate and the low boiling reaction material introduced from said source into said flow path comprises condensate of the low boiling reaction material. 7. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the low boiling reaction material is substantially maintained as liquid phase condensate along said flow path from said source to said cannula. 8. The method as set forth in claim 6 further comprising cooling the low boiling reaction material in at least a portion of said flow path from said source of the low boiling reaction material to said cannula. 9. The method as set forth in claim 8 wherein the low boiling reaction material is cooled at more than one location along said flow path. 10. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein said flow path from said source of the low boiling reaction material to said cannula comprises a reservoir, the method further comprising pressurizing liquid phase condensate of the low boiling reaction material in said reservoir. 11. The method as set forth in claim 10 wherein the difference between the pressure at which the low boiling reaction material condensate is maintained in said reservoir and the pressure drop across the flow path downstream of the reservoir is at least as great as the vapor pressure of the condensate within the reservoir. 12. The method as set forth in claim 10 wherein the low boiling reaction material condensate is maintained in said reservoir at a pressure at least 100 psi in excess of the vapor pressure of the condensate contained therein. 13. The method as set forth in claim 10 wherein said reservoir in said flow path is a reservoir chamber of an accumulator assembly, the method further comprising pressurizing said reservoir by introducing a pressurizing fluid into a second chamber of said accumulator assembly separated from said reservoir chamber by a flexible barrier. 14. The method as set forth in claim 13 wherein the accumulator assembly comprises a bladder-type accumulator vessel. 15. The method as set forth in claim 13 wherein the accumulator assembly comprises a bellows-type accumulator vessel. 16. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the low boiling reaction material has a boiling point no greater than about 0.degree. C. at a pressure of one atmosphere. 17. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the low boiling reaction material has a boiling point no greater than about -25.degree. C. at a pressure of one atmosphere. 18. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said sealing mechanism comprises a valve movable between a closed position for closing the passage and an open position permitting movement of the cannula through the passage, and a seal in the passage sealingly engageable with the cannula when the valve is in its open position, said seal being located on a side of the valve opposite said vessel, said withdrawing step comprising withdrawing the cannula to an intermediate position in which the distal end of the cannula is located between the valve and said seal, and holding the cannula in said intermediate position for a dwell period sufficient to allow the valve to close and seal the cannula passage before completely withdrawing the cannula from the passage. 19. A method of delivering a low boiling reaction material to a plurality of vessels in a reactor, the reactor having, for each vessel, a passage communicating with said vessel and a sealing mechanism in the passage, said method comprising: (a) providing a condensate transfer system comprising a source of the low boiling reaction material, a cannula and a flow path for the low boiling reaction material from said source to said cannula, (b) cooling the low boiling reaction material in at least a portion of said flow path, (c) pressurizing the reaction vessels, (d) inserting said cannula into a first of said passages in said reactor to a position past said sealing mechanism, (e) introducing the low boiling reaction material into said cannula through said flow path, the low boiling reaction material introduced into said cannula comprising liquid phase condensate, (f) delivering the liquid phase condensate of the low boiling reaction material from the cannula into said reaction vessel, (g) withdrawing the cannula from said passage, (h) sealing said passage upon withdrawal of the cannula from said passage, and (i) repeating steps (d) through (h) for a second passage and a second vessel of said plurality of vessels. 20. A method of delivering a low boiling reaction material to a plurality of vessels in a reactor, the reactor having, for each vessel, a passage communicating with said vessel and a sealing mechanism in the passage, said method comprising: (a) providing a condensate transfer system comprising a source of the low boiling reaction material, a cannula and a flow path for the low boiling reaction material from said source to said cannula, (b) pressurizing the flow path such that the low boiling reaction material in said flow path comprises liquid phase condensate, (c) pressurizing the reaction vessels, (d) inserting said cannula into a first of said passages in said reactor to a position past said sealing mechanism, (e) introducing the low boiling reaction material into said cannula through said flow path, the low boiling reaction material introduced into said cannula comprising liquid phase condensate, (f) delivering the liquid phase condensate of the low boiling reaction material from the cannula into said reaction vessel, (g) withdrawing the cannula from said passage, (h) sealing said passage upon withdrawal of the cannula from said passage, and (i) repeating steps (d) through (h) for a second passage and a second vessel of said plurality of vessels. 21. The method as set forth in claim 20 wherein said flow path comprises a pressurized reservoir containing liquid phase condensate of the low boiling reaction material. 22. The method as set forth in claim 20 further comprising before step (d) cooling the low boiling reaction material in at least a portion of said flow path. 