A method for energy management in a robotic device includes providing a base station for mating with the robotic device, determining a quantity of energy stored in an energy storage unit of the robotic device, and performing a predetermined task based at least in part on the quantity of energy stored. Also disclosed are systems for emitting avoidance signals to prevent inadvertent contact between the robot and the base station, and systems for emitting homing signals to allow the robotic device to accurately dock with the base station.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for energy management in a robotic device, the method comprising the steps of: providing a robotic device comprising at least one energy storage unit and a signal detector; providing a base station for mating with the robotic device, the base station emitting a homing signal; determining whether a quantity of energy stored in the energy storage unit is below one or both of a predetermined high energy level and a predetermined low energy level that is lower than predetermined high energy level; performing, by the robotic device, a predetermined task based at least in part on whether the quantity of energy stored is below the predetermined high energy level or the predetermined low energy level; the predetermined task comprising: cleaning without seeking the homing signal when the quantity of energy is not below the high energy level; cleaning while seeking the homing signal when the quantity of energy is below the high energy level; seeking the homing signal without cleaning when the quantity of energy is below the low energy level; and following the homing signal to return to the recharging base station when detecting the homing signal during seeking the homing signal. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of determining comprises using coulometry. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of determining comprises setting a time period. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising while cleaning without seeking the homing signal, driving away from the base station in response to detecting a base station avoidance signal. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising while seeking the homing signal without returning cleaning, to the base station in response to detecting a base station homing signal. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising orienting the robotic device in relation to (i) a right signal transmitted by a right signal emitter of the base station and (ii) a left signal transmitted by a left signal emitter of the base station, according to signals received by an omni-directional sensor on the robotic device; and maintaining an orientation of the robotic device by: when the right signal is received by the omni-directional sensor on the robotic device, moving the robotic device to keep the right signal to the right of the robot, and when the left signal is received by the omni-directional sensor on the robotic device, moving the robotic device to keep the left signal to the left of the robot. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein seeking the homing signal without cleaning further includes altering a travel mode to follow a wall. 8. The method of claim 5 further comprising charging the robotic device. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of resuming the predetermined task. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising while seeking the homing signal without cleaning, reducing energy use by removing power from some of the robotic device's powered systems. 11. An autonomous robot system comprising: a base station emitting a homing signal, and a robot dockable to the base station; wherein the robot is configured to compare a quantity of energy in an energy storage unit to a predetermined first level or a predetermined second level that is lower than the predetermined first level to perform: cleaning without seeking the homing signal when the quantity of energy is above the predetermined first level; cleaning while seeking the homing signal when the quantity of energy is below the predetermined first level; seeking the homing signal without cleaning when the quantity of energy is below the predetermined second level; and following the homing signal to the recharging base station, when detecting the homing signal during seeking the homing signal. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the robot is configured to determine the quantity of energy in the energy storage unit using at least one of coulomtery and monitoring of a time period of use. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the robot is configured to drive away from the base station in response to detecting an avoidance signal from the base station while cleaning without seeking the homing signal. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the robot is configured to reduce energy use by removing power from some of the robotic device's powered systems while seeking the homing signal without cleaning. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein the robot is configured to follow a wall while seeking the homing signal without cleaning. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein the robot further comprises an omni-directional sensor and the base station further comprises a right signal emitter and a left signal emitter for transmitting corresponding right and left signals; and wherein the robot is configured to maintain an orientation by: moving to keep the right signal to the right of the robot when the right signal is received by theomni-directional sensor, and moving to keep the left signal to the left of the robot when the left signal is received by the omni-directional sensor. 17. The system of claim 11, wherein the base station further comprises: a plurality of first charging terminals; and circuitry for confirming a presence of the robot at the charging terminals by recognizing a load formed by a circuit in the base station combined with a complementary circuit in the robot; and wherein the robot further comprises: a battery; and a plurality of second charging terminals adapted to mate with the first charging terminals. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the circuitry of the base station is configured to increase energy to the charging terminals to a charging current upon confirmation of a presence of a robotic device docked with the base station. 