A printhead assembly with at least two printhead integrated circuits (IC's), each having arrays of printing fluid ejection nozzles. A support member in the assembly supports and carries the printing fluid fed to the at least two printhead integrated circuits. Drive circuitry for controlling the operation of the printhead IC's has an electrical connector for connecting the drive circuitry to the at least two printhead integrated circuits. The assembly has a casing for supporting the printhead IC's, the support member, the drive circuitry and the electrical connector within an inkjet printer, wherein, the casing has a heat sink to draw heat away from the drive circuitry.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly comprising: at least two printhead integrated circuits (IC's) having arrays of printing fluid ejection nozzles; a support member for supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits; drive circuitry for controlling the operation of the printhead IC's; an electrical connector for connecting the drive circuitry to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and, a casing for supporting the printhead IC's, the support member, the drive circuitry and the electrical connector within an inkjet printer; wherein, the casing has a heat sink to draw heat away from the drive circuitry. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1 wherein the casing has a cover that is removable to allow access to the print engine controller, the heat sink being provided on the cover. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2 wherein the cover and the heat sink are integrally formed. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3 wherein the heat sink is a series of cooling fins extending from an interior surface of the cover toward the drive circuitry. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 4 wherein the drive circuitry is provided on a printed circuit board. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5 wherein the casing has an interface with electrical contacts for receiving print data from a print engine controller in the inkjet printer. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 6 wherein the printed circuit board has complementary contacts for electrical connection to the electrical contacts in the interface. 8. A printhead assembly according to claim 7 wherein the casing has a set of printing fluid inlets for receiving printing fluid from a supply within the inkjet printer. 