A robotic hand comprises a base having fingers and a palm. The fingers define a working volume. The hand is able to grasp objects between the fingers and the palm by varying a distance from the palm to the working volume. Varying this distance can be achieved by either moving the palm towards the working volume or by moving the working volume towards the palm. Robotic hands that move the palm comprise an actuator that extends the palm from the base towards the working volume. Robotic hands that move the working volume relative to the palm have the fingers mounted to a common finger support unit that is configured to translate relative to the base.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic hand comprising: a base; two or more fingers attached to the base, each of the fingers including an independently actuated joint; and a palm, including a broad contact surface, extendable from the base by an actuator and actuated independently from the two or more fingers, so arranged that the palm can be moved with respect to a working volume of the fingers and wherein the actuator includes a first screw jack with right-hand threads and a second screw jack with left-hand threads. 2. The robotic hand of claim 1, wherein the threads of the screw jacks are triple-helix threads. 3. The robotic hand of claim 1, wherein the threads of the screw jacks have a pitch in the range of 20 to 40 degrees. 4. The robotic hand of claim 1, wherein the palm is a composite palm. 5. The robotic hand of claim 1, further comprising three or more fingers so arranged that the fingers can form an interlaced grasp. 6. A method for grasping an object with a robotic hand including a base, two or more fingers, and a palm, the method comprising: forming a caging configuration by positioning the fingers and palm about the object such that translation of the object is bounded by the fingers; and forming a caging grasp from the caging configuration by actuating the fingers and independently extending the palm from the base such that the two or more fingers and a broad contact surface of the palm contact the object and wherein extending the palm includes actuating a pair of screw jacks. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the caging grasp comprises an interlaced grasp. 