A process of performing a medical test includes taking multi-spectral images of an area of interest of a patient. The patient can be a human being or an animal, and can be known to be healthy or known to have health issues or problems. A multi-spectral camera includes a long-infrared charge-coupled device, a mid-infrared detector array, and a control device that synchronizes operation of the charge-coupled device and the detector array. The mid-infrared detector array can include carbon nanotubes. The carbon nanotubes can be detector elements. For example, the carbon nanotubes can be tuned-bandgap carbon nanotubes. Each pixel of resolution of the detector array can include a balanced Wheatstone bridge circuit including one of the tuned-bandgap carbon nanotubes. Adjacent pixels of the detector array can be arranged for orthogonal polarization.
Claims I claim: 1. A process of performing a medical test, comprising: taking multi-spectral images of an area of interest of a patient; wherein taking multispectral images includes taking images using a dual-spectrum infrared camera; wherein the dual-spectrum infrared camera includes a long-infrared wavelength detector and a mid-infrared wavelength detector; wherein the mid-infrared wavelength detector includes a detector array having carbon nanotubes; and wherein the carbon nanotubes are tuned-bandgap carbon nanotubes. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein taking multi-spectral images includes taking substantially simultaneous images of the area of interest using a plurality of cameras, wherein each of the cameras provides an image in respective different spectra. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein the cameras are infrared cameras. 4. The process of claim 1, wherein the spectra are infrared spectra. 5. The process of claim 1, wherein the plurality of cameras are two cameras. 6. The process of claim 1, wherein the carbon nanotubes are detector elements. 7. The process of claim 1, wherein each pixel of resolution of the detector array includes a balanced Wheatstone bridge circuit including one of the tuned-bandgap carbon nanotubes. 8. A process of performing a medical diagnosis, comprising: performing a medical test according to claim 1; comparing the images to spectrograms of subjects having a known health issue; and diagnosing a health status of the patient based on a correlation of the images to the spectrograms. 9. A process of performing a medical prognosis, comprising: performing a medical test according to claim 1, wherein the patient has a known health issue of a particular type; comparing the images to spectrograms of subjects having the known health issue of the particular type; and providing a prognosis for the patient based on a correlation of the images to the spectrograms. 10. A process of performing a medical test, comprising: taking multi-spectral images of an area of interest of a patient; wherein taking multispectral images includes taking images using a multiple-spectrum camera; wherein the multiple-spectrum camera is a dual-spectrum camera; and wherein the multiple-spectrum camera is cooled by electrical dissipation. 11. The process of claim 10, wherein the multiple-spectrum camera is a dual-spectrum infrared camera. 12. The process of claim 11, wherein the dual-spectrum infrared camera includes any two of a long-infrared wavelength detector, a mid-infrared wavelength detector, and a short-infrared wavelength detector. 13. The process of claim 12, wherein the dual-spectrum infrared camera includes a long-infrared wavelength detector and a mid-infrared wavelength detector. 14. The process of claim 13, wherein the mid-infrared wavelength detector includes a detector array having carbon nanotubes. 15. The process of claim 14, wherein the carbon nanotubes are detector elements. 16. The process of claim 10, wherein taking multi-spectral images includes taking substantially simultaneous images of the area of interest using a plurality of cameras, wherein each of the cameras provides an image in respective different spectra. 17. The process of claim 16, wherein the cameras are infrared cameras. 18. The process of claim 16, wherein the spectra are infrared spectra. 19. The process of claim 16, wherein the plurality of cameras are two cameras. 20. A process of performing a medical diagnosis, comprising: performing a medical test according to claim 10; comparing the images to spectrograms of subjects having a known health issue; and diagnosing a health status of the patient based on a correlation of the images to the spectrograms. 21. A process of performing a medical prognosis, comprising: performing a medical test according to claim 10, wherein the patient has a known health issue of a particular type; comparing the images to spectrograms of subjects having the known health issue of the particular type; and providing a prognosis for the patient based on a correlation of the images to the spectrograms. 22. A process of performing a medical test, comprising: taking multi-spectral images of an area of interest of a patient; wherein taking multispectral images includes taking images using a multiple-spectrum camera; wherein the multiple-spectrum camera is a dual-spectrum camera; and wherein the multiple-spectrum camera is cooled by refrigeration. 23. The process of claim 22, wherein the multiple-spectrum camera is a dual-spectrum infrared camera. 24. The process of claim 23, wherein the dual-spectrum infrared camera includes any two of a long-infrared wavelength detector, a mid-infrared wavelength detector, and a short-infrared wavelength detector. 25. The process of claim 24, wherein the dual-spectrum infrared camera includes a long-infrared wavelength detector and a mid-infrared wavelength detector. 26. The process of claim 25, wherein the mid-infrared wavelength detector includes a detector array having carbon nanotubes. 27. The process of claim 26, wherein the carbon nanotubes are detector elements. 28. The process of claim 22, wherein taking multi-spectral images includes taking substantially simultaneous images of the area of interest using a plurality of cameras, wherein each of the cameras provides an image in respective different spectra. 29. The process of claim 28, wherein the cameras are infrared cameras. 30. The process of claim 28, wherein the spectra are infrared spectra. 31. The process of claim 28, wherein the plurality of cameras are two cameras. 32. A process of performing a medical diagnosis, comprising: performing a medical test according to claim 22; comparing the images to spectrograms of subjects having a known health issue; and diagnosing a health status of the patient based on a correlation of the images to the spectrograms. 33. A process of performing a medical prognosis, comprising: performing a medical test according to claim 22, wherein the patient has a known health issue of a particular type; comparing the images to spectrograms of subjects having the known health issue of the particular type; and providing a prognosis for the patient based on a correlation of the images to the spectrograms. 34. A process of performing a medical test, comprising: taking multi-spectral images of an area of interest of a patient; wherein taking multispectral images includes taking images using a multiple-spectrum camera; wherein the multiple-spectrum camera is a dual-spectrum camera; and wherein the multiple-spectrum camera includes a backplane, further comprising refrigerating the backplane. 35. The process of claim 34, wherein the multiple-spectrum camera is a dual-spectrum infrared camera. 36. The process of claim 35, wherein the dual-spectrum infrared camera includes any two of a long-infrared wavelength detector, a mid-infrared wavelength detector, and a short-infrared wavelength detector. 37. The process of claim 36, wherein the dual-spectrum infrared camera includes a long-infrared wavelength detector and a mid-infrared wavelength detector. 38. The process of claim 37, wherein the mid-infrared wavelength detector includes a detector array having carbon nanotubes. 39. The process of claim 38, wherein the carbon nanotubes are detector elements. 40. The process of claim 34, wherein taking multi-spectral images includes taking substantially simultaneous images of the area of interest using a plurality of cameras, wherein each of the cameras provides an image in respective different spectra. 41. The process of claim 40, wherein the cameras are infrared cameras. 42. The process of claim 40, wherein the spectra are infrared spectra. 43. The process of claim 40, wherein the plurality of cameras are two cameras. 44. A process of performing a medical diagnosis, comprising: performing a medical test according to claim 34; comparing the images to spectrograms of subjects having a known health issue; and diagnosing a health status of the patient based on a correlation of the images to the spectrograms. 45. A process of performing a medical prognosis, comprising: performing a medical test according to claim 34, wherein the patient has a known health issue of a particular type; comparing the images to spectrograms of subjects having the known health issue of the particular type; and providing a prognosis for the patient based on a correlation of the images to the spectrograms. 46. A process of performing a medical test, comprising: taking multi-spectral images of an area of interest of a patient; wherein taking multispectral images includes taking images using a multiple-spectrum camera; wherein the multiple-spectrum camera is a dual-spectrum camera; and further comprising cryogenically cooling the multiple-spectrum camera. 47. The process of claim 46, wherein cryogenically cooling the multiple-spectrum camera includes using liquid nitrogen as a coolant. 48. The process of claim 46, wherein the multiple-spectrum camera is a dual-spectrum infrared camera. 49. The process of claim 48, wherein the dual-spectrum infrared camera includes any two of a long-infrared wavelength detector, a mid-infrared wavelength detector, and a short-infrared wavelength detector. 50. The process of claim 49, wherein the dual-spectrum infrared camera includes a long-infrared wavelength detector and a mid-infrared wavelength detector. 51. The process of claim 50, wherein the mid-infrared wavelength detector includes a detector array having carbon nanotubes. 52. The process of claim 51, wherein the carbon nanotubes are detector elements. 53. The process of claim 46, wherein taking multi-spectral images includes taking substantially simultaneous images of the area of interest using a plurality of cameras, wherein each of the cameras provides an image in respective different spectra. 54. The process of claim 53, wherein the cameras are infrared cameras. 55. The process of claim 53, wherein the spectra are infrared spectra. 56. The process of claim 53, wherein the plurality of cameras are two cameras. 57. A process of performing a medical diagnosis, comprising: performing a medical test according to claim 46; comparing the images to spectrograms of subjects having a known health issue; and diagnosing a health status of the patient based on a correlation of the images to the spectrograms. 58. A process of performing a medical prognosis, comprising: performing a medical test according to claim 46, wherein the patient has a known health issue of a particular type; comparing the images to spectrograms of subjects having the known health issue of the particular type; and providing a prognosis for the patient based on a correlation of the images to the spectrograms. 59. A multi-spectral camera, comprising: a long-infrared charge-coupled device; a mid-infrared detector array; and a control device that synchronizes operation of the charge-coupled device and the detector array; wherein the mid-infrared detector array includes carbon nanotubes; and wherein the carbon nanotubes are tuned-bandgap carbon nanotubes. 60. The multi-spectral camera of claim 59, wherein the carbon nanotubes are detector elements. 61. The multi-spectral camera of claim 59, wherein each pixel of resolution of the detector array includes a balanced Wheatstone bridge circuit including one of the tuned-bandgap carbon nanotubes. 62. The multi-spectral camera of claim 61, wherein adjacent pixels of the detector array are arranged for orthogonal polarization. 63. The multi-spectral camera of claim 59, wherein the charge-coupled device and the detector array are co-axially aligned. 64. A multi-spectral camera, comprising: a long-infrared charge-coupled device; a mid-infrared detector array; a control device that synchronizes operation of the charge-coupled device and the detector array; and conductive members that cool the detector array by dissipation. 65. The multi-spectral camera of claim 64, wherein the mid-infrared detector array includes carbon nanotubes. 66. The multi-spectral camera of claim 65, wherein the carbon nanotubes are detector elements. 67. The multi-spectral camera of claim 64, wherein the charge-coupled device and the detector array are co-axially aligned. 68. A multi-spectral camera, comprising: a long-infrared charge-coupled device; a mid-infrared detector array; a control device that synchronizes operation of the charge-coupled device and the detector array; and a refrigeration element that cools the detector array. 69. The multi-spectral camera of claim 68, wherein the mid-infrared detector array includes carbon nanotubes. 70. The multi-spectral camera of claim 69, wherein the carbon nanotubes are detector elements. 71. The multi-spectral camera of claim 68, wherein the charge-coupled device and the detector array are co-axially aligned. 72. A multi-spectral camera, comprising: a long-infrared charge-coupled device; a mid-infrared detector array; a control device that synchronizes operation of the charge-coupled device and the detector array; and a cryogenic cooling element that cools the detector array. 73. The multi-spectral camera of claim 72, wherein the cryogenic cooling element uses liquid nitrogen as a coolant. 74. The multi-spectral camera of claim 72, wherein the mid-infrared detector array includes carbon nanotubes. 75. The multi-spectral camera of claim 74, wherein the carbon nanotubes are detector elements. 76. The multi-spectral camera of claim 72, wherein the charge-coupled device and the detector array are co-axially aligned. 