The invention provides a standardized machining jig to be used in a machining center for processing various works. A machining jig 1 mounted on an exchange table T.sub.1 of a machining center has a jig base 10 and a pallet 20, and the pallet 20 is equipped with a large number of even-pitched through holes. Standard bolts 30 are inserted to the through holes, which are prevented from falling to the floor by a stopper plate 80. Standardized supporting blocks 42, 43 and positioning blocks 50 are fixed to the pallet 20 via bolts 30. A work 100 is fixed to the supporting blocks and the positioning blocks. The bolts 30 are manipulated via a bolt runner 60 attached to a robot arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A machining jig mounted on a table of a multitasking machine for supporting a work, the machining jig comprising: a jig base having an opening formed in a side circumference thereof and a round hole in an upper portion thereof; a disk-shaped pallet being inserted and fixed to the round hole of the jig base, wherein the pallet comprises even-pitched bolt-inserting through holes, a standard bolt inserted to the through hole, and a stopper plate for preventing the bolt from falling; and a supporting block fixed to the pallet via the standard bolt for supporting the work. 2. The machining jig according to claim 1, wherein the supporting block of the machining jig comprises two screw holes to which are engaged the standard bolts inserted to the pallet, and a single through hole through which passes the bolt engaged to the work. 3. A machining jig mounted on a table of a multitasking machine for supporting a work, the machining jig comprising; a jig base having an opening formed in a side circumference thereof and a round hole in an upper portion thereof; a disk-shaped pallet being inserted and fixed to the round hole of the jig base, wherein the pallet comprises even-pitched bolt-inserting through holes, a standard bolt inserted to the through hole, and a stopper plate for preventing the bolt from falling; and a positioning block fixed to the pallet via the standard bolt and having a pin for positioning the work. 4. A machining jig mounted on a table of a multitasking machine for supporting a work, the machining jig comprising: a jig base, comprising: a lower flange portion mounted on the table of the multitasking machine, an upper flange portion parallel to and spaced apart from the lower flange portion, a side portion attached to the upper flange portion and the lower flange portion at respective ends and maintaining the upper flange portion and the lower flange portion in spaced apart relationship, a hole within the upper flange portion sized to receive a disk-shaped pallet and at least one opening in the side portion providing access into a volume defined by the upper flange portion, the lower flange portion and the side portion; the disk-shaped pallet inserted and fixed to the round hole of the of the upper flange portion, the disk-shaped pallet comprising: even-pitched bolt-inserting through holes, and a standard bolt inserted in each of the through holes, each bolt extending upwardly through the respective through hole with the head of each bolt facing downward towards the lower flange portion; and a stopper plate attached to a side of the disk-shaped pallet facing the lower flange portion, the stopper place preventing each of the bolts from falling downward from the through holes, and including holes aligned with the head of each bolt. 5. The machining jig of claim 4 in combination with a bolt runner attached to a robotic arm, the bolt runner including a drive head with a drive shaft for engaging and rotating the head of each bolt, and wherein the at least one opening in the side portion enables the robotic arm to insert the drive head of the bolt runner therethrough into the volume defined by the upper flange portion, the lower flange portion and the side portion, and to drive selectively the head of each bolt through a corresponding hole in the stopper plate. 6. A method of using a machining jig of claim 4, comprising: using a robotic arm to insert a drive head of a bolt runner through the at least one opening in the side portion, and selectively engaging the head of each bolt with the drive head through a corresponding hole in the stopper plate to secure/unsecure a workpiece, supporting block or positioning block in relation to the disk-shaped pallet. 