Disparate robotic devices can be automatically recharged and reprogrammed by self-scheduling individual time slots for the available recharging area(s) of a charging station. These charging stations provide a nest to which each robot must return periodically for power. These nests can also provide new tasking or patches for the robotic devices. The charging station and the robotic devices are both provided with communications capabilities and a protocol by which they can negotiate to find a time slot in which the device can be recharged, as well as determining a correct connector and a battery type.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of recharging robotic devices, said method comprising the steps of: querying a robotic device whether it has reached a given level of depletion; if the robotic device has reached said given level of depletion, negotiating with said robotic device using a protocol to determine a time slot for charging said robotic device; and providing charging for said robotic device during said time slot. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: providing said robotic device with new tasks or updated programming during said time slot. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of using said protocol comprises the steps of: offering a next available time slot at which said robotic device can report to said charging station for charging; and if said robotic device provides a confirmation of said time slot, scheduling said robotic device for said time slot, else incrementing said available time slot and returning to said offering step. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said charging station maintains separate schedules for each of a plurality of connectors. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of connectors are different and said protocol includes determining a connector of said plurality of connectors that said robotic device can utilize for charging. 6. A method of recharging a robotic device, said method comprising the steps of: determining that an onboard battery has reached a given level of depletion; contacting an associated charging station; requesting charging; receiving and storing a time slot for charging; and reporting for charging during said time slot. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising the steps of: receiving new tasks or updated programming during said time slot. 8. The method of claim 6, further comprising notifying said charging station of a need for a specific connector needed for charging. 