The present invention provides methods and compositions for use in rapid test or prediction of the propensity of a test compound to induce cholestasis in a subject. The invention also includes a Cholestasis signature database as well as the method of deriving such database.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for testing the propensity of a test compound to induce cholestasis in a test subject, the method comprising: a) administering an effective amount of the test compound to the test subject for a selected period of time; b) determining the change in expression level of each of a plurality of cholestasis indicator genes, wherein said plurality of indicator genes comprises the genes with GenBank accession numbers: AB010467 (SEQ ID NO: 1), X13295 (SEQ ID NO: 5), BF284899 (SEQ ID NO: 3), BF395678 (SEQ ID NO: 4), and AI411194 (SEQ ID NO: 2); c) determining the statistical significance of the change in expression level of each of said cholestasis indicator genes; d) assigning a probability of cholestasis induction due to said test compound if said plurality of said indicator genes exhibit a statistically significant change in expression level. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said selected period of time is three days. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said selected period of time is five days. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said probability is evaluated by the method comprising: a) deriving a test compound vector representing the expression of said indicator genes in response to said test compound; and b) projecting said test compound vector against a signature vector representing the expression of said indicator genes in response to a plurality of compounds known to induce cholestasis; wherein the degree of match between the test compound vector and the signature vector indicates the degree to which the test compound will exhibit cholestasis characteristic of the compounds used to derive the signature vector. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said probability is assigned by any one of the following methods; Euclidian distance, Pearson's correlation coefficient, or signature projection score. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said probability is assigned by calculating signature projection score (SPS) for the test expression response under a dose/time treatment of said test compound, wherein said SPS is calculated according to the equation: .times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00003## wherein X.sub.g.sup.c is the test compound gene expression level under dose/time treatment t for selected gene g, T.sub.g is the treated gene expression level, for selected gene g, R.sub.g is the reference gene expression level, for selected gene g, and S.sub.g is the scaling factor for the contribution of each gene to the SPS, whereby the SPS for said test compound indicates the probability of cholestasis in a test subject. 