This invention relates to the discovery that the transcription factors Pbx1 and HMG I are involved in retrovirus, e.g., HIV, replication. Thus, the invention provides methods of identifying modulators of these proteins. Such modulators can be used as reagents in in vitro assays to modulate expression of retroviral sequences and may be used to inhibit HIV replication in vivo.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying a compound that inhibits replication of a retrovirus that infects human cells, the method comprising: contacting a candidate compound with a nucleic acid that encodes the transcriptional regulator pre-B-cell leukemia transcription factor 1 (Pbx1) under conditions that support transcription of a gene that is operably linked to a Pbx1 responsive element; and determining whether the compound inhibits Pbx1-mediated transcription of said gene, thereby identifying a compound that inhibits replication of the retrovirus. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting a compound that binds to the transcriptional regulator nucleic acid. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the retrovirus is a human immunodeficiency virus. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the human immunodeficiency virus is HIV-1. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of contacting the candidate compound with the transcriptional regulator nucleic acid comprises incubating the compound with the transcriptional regulator nucleic acid and a reporter construct comprising a Pbx-1 response element. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the Pbx-1 response element comprises a regulatory sequence from a virus that infects human cells. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the regulatory sequence comprises an HIV-1 LTR. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the incubation mixture further comprises tat. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the incubation comprises contacting the compound with Magi indicator cells that express tat and comprise an HIV-1 LTR reporter construct and the transcriptional regulator nucleic acid. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the incubation comprises contacting the compound with HeLa cells that express tat and comprise an HIV-1 LTR reporter construct and the transcriptional regulator nucleic acid. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the transcriptional regulator nucleic acid is comprised in an expression vector. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the candidate compound is an siRNA. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the candidate compound is an antisense RNA. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the Pbx1 is Pbx1b. 