An interactive personalized robotic system for a home environment includes a home network in communication with at least one electronic device. A robot is in communication with the home network and is capable of controlling the at least one electronic device. The robot further includes a plurality of modules for personally communicating with a user. The user can control the robot and the at least one electronic device by communicating with the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interactive robotic system for a home environment comprising: a home network in communication with at least one electronic device; and a robot in communication with said home network and capable of controlling said at least one electronic device, said robot further including a plurality of modules for personally communicating with a user; wherein said user can control said robot and said at least one electronic device by communicating with said robot; and wherein said robot further includes a text-to-speech module and a speaker linked to said text-to-speech module for emitting a synthesized voice from said robot for communicating with said user and said robot knows a location of said user relative to said robot and positions itself relative to said user so as to optimize emitting said synthesized voice to said user. 2. The interactive robotic system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of modules includes a voice identification/verification module for either matching a voice to one of a set of stored profiles or deciding that said voice does not match one of said set of stored profiles. 3. The interactive robotic system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of modules includes a voice identification/verification module and a biometric sensor each having a set of stored profiles, said voice identification/verification module and said biometric sensor either matching a voice and biometric data to one of a set of stored profiles or deciding that said voice and biometric data does not match one of said set of stored profiles. 4. The interactive robotic system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of modules includes a speech recognition module for understanding communication from said user. 5. The interactive robotic system of claim 4, wherein said robot further includes a microphone linked to said speech recognition module for receiving speech from said user. 6. The interactive robotic system of claim 5, wherein said robot knows a location of said user relative to said robot and positions itself relative to said user so as to optimize receiving said speech from said user. 7. The interactive robotic system of claim 1, wherein said robot is selectively controlled remotely by said user. 8. The interactive robotic system of claim 7, wherein said robot is selectively controlled remotely by said user using a cellular phone. 9. The interactive robotic system of claim 7, wherein said robot is selectively controlled remotely by said user using a PDA. 10. The interactive robotic system of claim 1, wherein said home network includes a data store having personalized information regarding said user. 11. The interactive robotic system of claim 10, wherein said robot communicates with said home network to obtain said personalized information when communicating with said user. 12. The interactive robotic system of claim 10, wherein said robot communicates with said home network to add and store said personalized information when communicating with said user. 13. An interactive robot for use in a home environment comprising: a control module for controlling the robot; a text-to-speech module in communication with said control module and a speaker for synthesizing speech; a speech recognition module in communication with said control module and a microphone for receiving and decoding speech; and wherein the robot knows a location of a user and optimizes said synthesized speech to said user and optimizes said received speech from said user. 14. The interactive robot of claim 13, wherein the robot optimizes said synthesized speech to said user and optimizes said received speech from said user by positioning itself relative to said user such that said user is at an optimum location relative to said speaker and said microphone. 15. The interactive robot of claim 13, wherein the robot optimizes said synthesized speech to said user and optimizes said received speech from said user by positioning said speaker and said microphone relative to said user such that said speaker and said microphone are aimed at said user. 16. The interactive robot of claim 13, further comprising an at least one sensor for determining a location of a user. 17. The interactive robot of claim 13, wherein the robot is in communication with an at least one sensor in a home network for determining a location of a user. 18. The interactive robot of claim 13, wherein said robot stores personalized data of said user and uses said personalized data to communicate with said user. 19. The interactive robot of claim 18, wherein said robot adjusts a volume of an audio output from said text-to-speech module based on said personalized data of said user. 20. An interactive robot for use in a home environment having a home network, the interactive personalized robot comprising: a control module for controlling the robot; a text-to-speech module in communication with said control module and a speaker for synthesizing speech; a speech recognition module in communication with said central processing unit and a microphone for receiving and decoding speech; and a transmitter/receiver in communication with the home network of the home environment; wherein the robot monitors and controls the home environment through the transmitter/receiver and reports problems to a user using said text-to-speech module and said transmitter/receiver; and wherein the robot monitors an electronic device within the home environment and said control module runs diagnostics on the electronic device to determine if the electronic device is working and to alert said user. 21. The interactive robot of claim 20, further including a plurality of sensors used to monitor the home environment. 22. The interactive robot of claim 21, wherein said plurality of sensors includes a camera, and the robot monitors the home environment by using said camera to examine the home environment. 23. An interactive robotic system for a home environment comprising: a home network in communication with at least one electronic device; and a robot in communication with said home network and capable of controlling said at least one electronic device, said robot further including a plurality of modules for personally communicating with a user; wherein said user can control said robot and said at least one electronic device by communicating with said robot; and wherein said robot further includes a speech recognition module for understanding communication from said user and a microphone linked to said speech recognition module for receiving speech from said user, and said robot knows a location of said user relative to said robot and positions itself relative to said user so as to optimize receiving said speech from said user. 24. The interactive robotic system of claim 23, wherein said plurality of modules includes a voice identification/verification module for either matching a voice to one of a set of stored profiles or deciding that said voice does not match one of said set of stored profiles. 25. The interactive robotic system of claim 23, wherein said plurality of modules includes a voice identification/verification module and a biometric sensor each having a set of stored profiles, said voice identification/verification module and said biometric sensor either matching a voice and biometric data to one of a set of stored profiles or deciding that said voice and biometric data does not match one of said set of stored profiles. 