Improved robotic surgery end-effectors include at least one insulation material for inhibiting surface conduction of electrical current in a proximal direction, from a distal active electrode toward the proximal end of the end-effector and toward the rest of the surgical instrument itself. Some embodiments include two layers of insulation to further prevent proximally-directed current. By inhibiting proximal current flow, the end-effectors prevent unwanted patient burns as well as electricity-related wear and tear in and around the area where the end-effector is coupled with the rest of the surgical instrument. In various embodiments, such end-effectors are preferably removably coupleable with a robotic surgical instrument.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end-effector device for use with an electrosurgical instrument for performing a minimally invasive surgical procedure, the end-effector device comprising: an electrode; a mechanism including at least one spring tab adapted to snap fit into a housing of an electrosurgical instrument for coupling the electrode to the electrosurgical instrument; an insulative rigid sleeve disposed at least partially around the electrode so as to inhibit surface conduction of electrical current flowing from the electrode to the electrosurgical instrument; first and second internal sealing rings respectively compressed against inner distal and proximal ends of the insulative rigid sleeve and disposed so as to inhibit fluid from entering into an interior of the insulative rigid sleeve through respectively the inner distal and proximal ends and making contact with any portion of the electrode disposed therein during a minimally invasive surgical procedure; and an insulation layer disposed at least partially around the electrode and one of the first and second internal sealing rings so as to additionally inhibit fluid from entering into the interior of the insulative rigid sleeve and making contact with any portion of the electrode disposed therein during the minimally invasive surgical procedure. 2. The end-effector device as in claim 1, wherein the electrode comprises a scalpel blade, a beaver blade, a hook, a spatula, movable jaws, scissors, a needle point, hockey stick, dissectors, or a probe. 3. The end-effector device as in claim 1, wherein the electrode transmits radiofrequency energy during the minimally invasive surgical procedure. 4. The end-effector device as in claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second internal sealing rings comprises an o-ring. 5. The end-effector device as in claim 1, wherein the end-effector device is constructed so as to be disposable. 6. The end-effector device as in claim 1, wherein the coupling mechanism is configured so as to be incapable of re-coupling to the electrosurgical instrument after once being coupled to and uncoupled from the electrosurgical instrument. 7. The end-effector device as in claim 1, wherein the coupling mechanism effectively permanently couples the device with the electrosurgical instrument. 8. The end-effector device as in claim 1, wherein the insulation layer comprises ceramic material, glass, silicone, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, or insulating plastic. 9. The end-effector device as in claim 8, wherein the insulative rigid sleeve comprises ceramic material, glass, silicone, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, or insulating plastic. 10. The end-effector device as in claim 8, wherein the insulation layer comprises a first insulation material completely encircling part of the electrode, and wherein the insulative rigid sleeve comprises a second insulation material completely encircling the first insulation material and abutting the electrosurgical instrument. 11. An end-effector device for use with an electrosurgical instrument for performing a minimally invasive surgical procedure, the end-effector device comprising: an electrode; a mechanism including an electrical connector for electrical connection with a transmission member via a coil shaped spring member of an electrosurgical instrument for coupling the electrode to the electrosurgical instrument; an insulative rigid sleeve disposed at least partially around the electrode so as to inhibit surface conduction of electrical current flowing from the electrode to the electrosurgical instrument; first and second internal sealing rings respectively compressed against inner distal and proximal ends of the insulative rigid sleeve and disposed so as to inhibit fluid from entering into an interior of the insulative rigid sleeve through respectively the inner distal and proximal ends and making contact with any portion of the electrode disposed therein during a minimally invasive surgical procedure; and an insulation layer disposed at least partially around the electrode and one of the first and second internal sealing rings so as to additionally inhibit fluid from entering into the interior of the insulative rigid sleeve and making contact with any portion of the electrode disposed therein during the minimally invasive surgical procedure. 12. The end-effector device as in claim 11, wherein the electrode comprises a scalpel blade, a beaver blade, a hook, a spatula, movable jaws, scissors, a needle point, hockey stick, dissectors, or a probe. 13. The end-effector device as in claim 11, wherein the electrode transmits radiofrequency energy during the minimally invasive surgical procedure. 14. The end-effector device as in claim 11, wherein at least one of the first and second internal sealing rings comprises an o-ring. 15. The end-effector device as in claim 11, wherein the end-effector device is constructed so as to be disposable. 16. The end-effector device as in claim 11, wherein the coupling mechanism is configured so as to be incapable of re-coupling to the electrosurgical instrument after once being coupled to and uncoupled from the electrosurgical instrument. 17. The end-effector device as in claim 11, wherein the coupling mechanism effectively permanently couples the device with the electrosurgical instrument. 18. The end-effector device as in claim 11, wherein the insulation layer comprises ceramic material, glass, silicone, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, or insulating plastic. 19. The end-effector device as in claim 18, wherein the insulative rigid sleeve comprises ceramic material, glass, silicone, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, or insulating plastic. 20. The end-effector device as in claim 18, wherein the insulation layer comprises a first insulation material completely encircling part of the electrode, and wherein the insulative rigid sleeve comprises a second insulation material completely encircling the first insulation material and abutting the electrosurgical instrument. 21. An end-effector device for use with an electrosurgical instrument for performing a minimally invasive surgical procedure, the end-effector device comprising: an electrode; a mechanism including an electrical connector for electrical connection with a transmission member via a gripping member of an electrosurgical instrument for coupling the electrode to the electrosurgical instrument, the gripping member having two arms to grip the electrical connector; an insulative rigid sleeve disposed at least partially around the electrode so as to inhibit surface conduction of electrical current flowing from the electrode to the electrosurgical instrument; first and second internal sealing rings respectively compressed against inner distal and proximal ends of the insulative rigid sleeve and disposed so as to inhibit fluid from entering into an interior of the insulative rigid sleeve through respectively the inner distal and proximal ends and making contact with any portion of the electrode disposed therein during a minimally invasive surgical procedure; and an insulation layer disposed at least partially around the electrode and one of the first and second internal sealing rings so as to additionally inhibit fluid from entering into the interior of the insulative rigid sleeve and making contact with any portion of the electrode disposed therein during the minimally invasive surgical procedure. 22. The end-effector device as in claim 21, wherein the electrode comprises a scalpel blade, a beaver blade, a hook, a spatula, movable jaws, scissors, a needle point, hockey stick, dissectors, or a probe. 23. The end-effector device as in claim 21, wherein the electrode transmits radiofrequency energy during the minimally invasive surgical procedure. 24. The end-effector device as in claim 21, wherein at least one of the first and second internal sealing rings comprises an o-ring. 25. The end-effector device as in claim 21, wherein the end-effector device is constructed so as to be disposable. 26. The end-effector device as in claim 21, wherein the coupling mechanism is configured so as to be incapable of re-coupling to the electrosurgical instrument after once being coupled to and uncoupled from the electrosurgical instrument. 27. The end-effector device as in claim 21, wherein the coupling mechanism effectively permanently couples the device with the electrosurgical instrument. 28. The end-effector device as in claim 21, wherein the insulation layer comprises ceramic material, glass, silicone, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, or insulating plastic. 29. The end-effector device as in claim 28, wherein the insulative rigid sleeve comprises ceramic material, glass, silicone, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, or insulating plastic. 30. The end-effector device as in claim 28, wherein the insulation layer comprises a first insulation material completely encircling part of the electrode, and wherein the insulative rigid sleeve comprises a second insulation material completely encircling the first insulation material and abutting the electrosurgical instrument. 