The non-axial force exerted on a pneumatic tool by a non-axial air supply is balanced to allow for uniformly radially distributed compliance forces on the tool. An annular air ring is disposed around the pneumatic tool, covering an air inlet port. Air is supplied by any route to a first air passage that supplies the air to the interior of the annular air ring, exerting a force on the annular air ring. Air flows in the annular space of the air ring, entering the tool air inlet port to drive the pneumatic tool. One or more second air passages are connected to the annular air ring in an even radial distribution. Each second air passage is connected to the air source, or terminates in an air blockage, creating a column of pressurized air that exerts a force on the annular air ring equal to the first air passage. The forces exerted on the air ring are thus balanced with respect to the axis of the tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pneumatic tool assembly having a force-balanced air supply, comprising: a housing; a pneumatic tool having a central axis compliantly mounted in said housing; a non-axial air supply inlet in said tool; a first air passage in airflow relation with said inlet; an annular air supply ring in airflow relation with said first air passage, said ring disposed about the axis of the tool and operative to supply air to the tool; and at least one balancing air passage in airflow relation with said annular air supply ring and operative to oppose a non-axial force induced by air flowing through said air supply inlet. 2. The assembly of claim 1 wherein at least one said balancing air passage connects to said annular air supply ring opposite said first air passage and terminates in an airflow blockage. 3. The assembly of claim 1 wherein at least one said balancing air passage connects to said annular air supply ring opposite said first air passage and is connected in airflow relation with said inlet. 4. The assembly of claim 3 wherein all said balancing air passages are substantially the same length as said first air passage. 5. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said first air passage and said at least one balancing air passage are disposed with generally even radial spacing around said air supply ring. 6. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said first air passage and said at least one balancing air passage are disposed generally parallel to said axis. 7. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said pneumatic tool is mounted in said housing via a gimbal. 8. The assembly of claim 7 wherein said gimbal is a two-axis gimbal allowing displacement of said tool central axis from alignment with a central axis of said housing in any radial direction. 9. The assembly of claim 7 wherein said air supply inlet coincides with one axis of said gimbal. 10. A method of force-balancing the air supply to a pneumatic tool assembly comprising a housing having a central axis and an air block operative to receive a supply of pressurized air and a pneumatic tool, comprising: directing air to said tool assembly through said air block in a non-axial direction, thereby imparting a non-axial force to said assembly; passing air from said air block via a first air passage to an annular air supply ring disposed circumferentially about the tool and operative to supply air to the tool; and passing a portion of said air from said annular air supply ring to at least one balancing air passage to create air pressure in said at least one balancing air passage that is generally equal to that in said first air passage, said at least one balancing air passage operative to oppose said force. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said at least one said balancing air passage is disposed between said annular air supply ring and an air blockage. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein said at least one said balancing air passage is disposed between said annular air supply ring and an air source. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein all said balancing air passages are substantially the same length as said first air passage. 14. The assembly of claim 10 wherein said first air passage and said at least one balancing air passage are disposed with generally even radial spacing around said air supply ring. 15. The assembly of claim 10 wherein said first air passage and said at least one balancing air passage are disposed generally parallel to said axis. 16. A method of supplying air to a pneumatic tool having a central axis without inducing a force on said tool, comprising: disposing an annular air supply ring axially around said tool, said air supply ring covering an air inlet aperture in said tool; directing air to said tool through said annular air supply ring via a first air passage; and force-balancing said annular air supply ring against force induced by air pressure in said first air passage by directing air to at least one balancing air passage, the air pressure in said at least one balancing air passage operative to balance said induced force. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said first air passage and said at least one balancing air passage are disposed with generally even radial spacing around said air supply ring. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein all said balancing air passages are substantially the same length as said first air passage. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein at least one said balancing air passage is disposed between said annular air ring and an air blockage. 20. The method of claim 16 further comprising directing air to said tool through said annular air supply ring via at least one said balancing air passage. 21. A pneumatic tool assembly having substantially equal compliance in all radial directions about a central axis, comprising: a housing; a pneumatic tool mounted in said housing; a compliance force mechanism coupling said pneumatic tool to said housing, said compliance force mechanism operative to impart a substantially equal compliance force to said pneumatic tool in all radial directions about said axis; a non-axial air block in said housing, operative to receive a supply of pressurized air; a first air passage in said housing, in airflow relation with said air block; an annular air supply ring in said housing, in airflow relation with said first air passage, said ring disposed about the axis of the tool and operative to supply air to the tool; and at least one balancing air passage in said housing, in airflow relation with said annular air supply ring and operative to oppose a non-axial force induced by air flowing through said air block. 22. The assembly of claim 21 wherein said compliance force mechanism comprises a plurality of compliance force members arrayed radially about said axis, said compliance force members biasing said pneumatic tool to an axially aligned position. 23. A deburring tool having a central axis and an air supply manifold disposed adjacent the tool for directing air into the tool, the air supply manifold having a non-axial air input, and wherein the air supply manifold is configured to counterbalance a non-axial force induced on the deburring tool by air entering the input of the air supply manifold. 24. The tool of claim 23 wherein the non-axial air input comprises a first air passage, and wherein the air supply manifold includes at least one balancing air passage. 25. The tool of claim 24 wherein at least one balancing air passage terminates in an air blockage, opposite the first air passage. 26. The tool of claim 24 wherein the non-axial air input comprises said first air passage and at least one said balancing air passage. 27. The tool of claim 24 wherein the first air passage and the at least one balancing air passage are disposed generally evenly around the air supply manifold. 28. The tool of claim 23 wherein the air supply manifold extends at least partially around the tool. 29. The tool of claim 28 wherein the air supply manifold comprises an annular ring that extends around the tool. 30. A pneumatic tool assembly having a central axis, comprising: a pneumatic tool disposed in a housing; a gimbal disposed in the housing and moveably supporting the tool; an air supply manifold disposed in the housing, axially spaced from the gimbal and operative to supply air to an air inlet in the tool; wherein air is directed through the gimbal, and subsequently to the air supply manifold. 31. The assembly of claim 30 further comprising a compliance device disposed in the housing and axially spaced from the air supply manifold, the compliance device providing a compliance force biasing the pneumatic tool to an axially aligned position in the housing. 32. The assembly of claim 31 wherein the air supply manifold is disposed between the gimbal and the compliance device. 33. A pneumatic tool assembly having a central axis, comprising: a housing; a pneumatic tool having a longitudinal axis disposed in the housing such that the tool longitudinal axis is generally aligned with the assembly central axis; air supply device for supplying air to the tool in a non-axial direction; and means associated with the air supply device for counterbalancing non-axial force induced on the pneumatic tool by air entering the air supply device. 34. The assembly of claim 33, further comprising compliance means for biasing the longitudinal axis of the tool to a position aligned with the tool assembly central axis. 35. The assembly of claim 33, further comprising support means for supporting the tool in the housing while allowing for non-central-axis-aligned motion of the tool within the housing. 