An apparatus comprises a body having a torus skin with inner and outer layers, and a drive system configured to propel the apparatus by moving the inner layer relative to the outer layer. The active skin propulsion system allows movement and steering of a device. A drive system includes a plurality of drive segments coupled together so that the skin engaging unit of the drive segment frictionally moves the inner layer of the torus skin relative to the outer layer of the torus skin. As a result of the relative skin motion and contact with the surface by the outer layer of the torus skin, the body is propelled and may be steered.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of moving a device having a torus skin body with a torus skin and cylindrical shaped inner and outer runs, comprising the steps of: simultaneously moving the inner run and the outer run of the torus skin body in a non-rectilinear, serpentine manner, in opposing longitudinal directions; and propelling the device in the non-rectilinear, serpentine manner as a result of the outer run frictionally engaging a surface external to the device during the simultaneously moving step. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of tensioning the torus skin to steer the device. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the simultaneously moving step includes rotating a plurality of drive wheels uniformly spaced about a longitudinal center line and causing the plurality of drive wheels to frictionally engage the inner run. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the simultaneously moving step includes sliding the inner and outer runs along a plurality of friction imparting rings housed between the inner and outer runs. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of driving a plurality of worm gears each linked to a motor powered by a portable power supply. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of supplying one of power, video and control communication to the device through a tethered tail. 7. A method for moving a device having a torus skin body including a torus skin, a plurality of longitudinally linked drive segments, at least one of the drive segments having a plurality of drive wheels, the drive wheels being located on opposing sides of a longitudinal center line, comprising the steps: receiving a control signal from a control source; powering a plurality of internally housed motors each linked to a distinct drive wheel configured to frictionally engage an inner run of the torus skin body; rotating the plurality of drive wheels configured to frictionally engage the inner run of the torus skin body; biasing a plurality of skin engaging units forcing the plurality of drive wheels to frictionally engage the inner run of the torus skin body; and moving the inner run of the torus skin. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of moving an outer run of the torus skin body in a direction longitudinally opposite to a direction of movement of the inner run. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of rotating a first and a second drive wheel in opposing directions. 10. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of rotating a first and second drive wheel at different speeds. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the internally housed motors are housed within the drive wheels. 12. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of pivoting a first drive segment relative to a second drive segment by tensioning the torus skin. 13. A method of moving a torus skin body having a pattern generator, and a plurality of micro-controller nodes, each of the micro-controller nodes being associated with a drive segment, comprising the steps of: receiving selection of a target; receiving control signals at a pattern generator for processing; sending output control signals from the pattern generator to a first micro-controller node; driving a motor housed within a device based upon the output control signals; wherein the device comprises a torus skin body propelling the device toward the target as a result of an outer run of the torus skin body frictionally engaging a surface external to the device. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of moving an inner run and the outer run of the torus skin body in longitudinally opposite directions by rotating a drive wheel frictionally engaged with the inner run of the torus skin body. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of receiving sensor feedback data from a sensor housed on the torus skin body and sending the sensor feedback data to the pattern generator. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising the step of combining the sensor feedback data with control signals sent from an operation control unit. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising the step of sending output control signals from the combining step to the plurality of micro-controller nodes, each of the plurality of micro-controller nodes receiving distinct output control signals. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the sensor feedback data is provided by performing visual servoing. 19. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of moving the device in anguilliform motion by controlling the plurality of micro-controller nodes with control signals resulting from a Naviers-Stokes solver. 20. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of lifting a head attached to the torus skin body using vertical actuators. 