A robotic system including a rotatable turntable that has an arm pivotally mounted on the turntable for rotation about an axis displaced from the turntable's rotational axis. The arm's axis of rotation may be positioned nearer the turntable's axis of rotation than a bearing that supports the turntable on a base. The arm may have a portion that extends in a direction transverse to the arm's axis of rotation located below the turntable. The turntable may be supported on the base by a single bearing having portions located in a common plane.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: a base; a turntable that is rotatable about a first axis relative to the base, the turntable including a bearing that contacts the base at a location spaced a first distance from the first axis; an arm pivotally mounted to the turntable that is rotatable about a second axis generally parallel to the first axis, the second axis being positioned a second distance from the first axis that is less than the first distance; and a coupling supported by the arm and adapted to engage with a tool arranged to perform at least one function, wherein the base includes an upper portion that is engaged with the turntable and at least one leg extending below the upper portion, the at least one leg being at least partially positioned below the turntable. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the arm is positioned below the turntable during use. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein a portion of the arm extends in a direction transverse to the second axis. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein a tool engaged with the coupling is arranged to engage with a workpiece located below arm. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the bearing includes an annular portion that engages with base. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the arm is movable along the second axis. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein a portion of the arm extends above the bearing, and another portion of the arm is positioned below the bearing. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the coupling is adapted to removably engage with a plurality of tools, each of the plurality of tools being adapted to perform a unique function as compared to other tools. 9. A robotic system comprising: a base; a turntable that is rotatable about first axis relative to the base, the turntable including a bearing that contacts the base at a location spaced a first distance from the first axis; an arm pivotally mounted to the turntable that is rotatable about a second axis spaced from and generally parallel to the first axis, at least a portion of the arm being positioned below the bearing when in use; and a coupling supported by the arm and adapted to engage with a tool arranged to perform at least one function, wherein the base includes an upper portion that supports the turntable and at least one leg extending below the upper portion, the at least one leg being at least partially positioned below the turntable. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the second axis is spaced from the first axis at a second distance that is less than the first distance. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein at least a portion of the arm extends in a direction transverse to the second axis beyond the at least one leg. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the base includes a plurality of legs extending below the upper portion and supporting the upper portion above a work area that is located below the turntable, the upper portion engaging the turntable at the bearing. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the arm is movable along the second axis toward the work area such that a tool engaged with the coupling is operable with a workpiece located at the work area. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein a portion of the arm extends in a direction transverse to the second axis. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the coupling is adapted to removably engage with a plurality of tools, each of the plurality of tools being adapted to perform a unique function as compared to other tools. 16. A robotic system comprising: a base; a turntable that is rotatable about first axis relative to the base; a single bearing that supports the turntable on the base in x, y and z directions and for rotation about the first axis; an arm pivotally mounted to the turntable that is rotatable about a second axis spaced from and generally parallel to the first axis; and a coupling adapted to engage with a tool arranged to perform at least one function, wherein the base includes an upper portion that engages with the turntable at the bearing, and at least one leg extending below the upper portion, the at least one leg being at least partially positioned below the turntable. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the second axis is spaced from the first axis at a distance that is less than a minimum distance between the first axis and the bearing. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein at least a portion of the arm extends in a direction transverse to the second axis beyond the at least one leg. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein the base includes a plurality of legs extending below the upper portion and supporting the upper portion above a work area that is located below the turntable. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the arm is movable along the second axis toward the work area such that a tool engaged with the coupling is operable with a workpiece located at the work area. 21. The system of claim 16, wherein the coupling is adapted to removably engage with a plurality of tools, each of the plurality of tools being adapted to perform a unique function as compared to other tools. 22. The system of claim 16, wherein at least a portion of the arm extends in a direction transverse to the second axis. 