A system including a processor, a high-energy density system linked to the processor, and a communicator linked to the processor. The communicator comprehensively integrates a plurality of hardware and software functions associated with operating the high-energy density system into a single, convenient interface. In one exemplary embodiment, the communicator comprises a wireless communicator. In operation, the communicator generates a command signal whereby the command signal is received by the processor. Accordingly, the processor controls the high-energy density system based on the command signal. In one aspect, the communicator interfaces with a security system for selectively limiting user access through a restricted system. In another aspect, the communicator is used for object information storage and retrieval associated with operating a high-energy density system, such as an ultrasonic laser system. In another aspect, the communicator is used to control a robotic device. In one exemplary embodiment, a wireless communicator continuously generates at least one command signal based on a typematic rate of interface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wireless system operable to issue commands to a robotic device according to a typematic rate of interface, the system including: a processor operably coupled to the robotic device, wherein the robotic device further comprises a laser ultrasonic non destructive evaluation (NDE) inspection system operable to generate and detect ultrasonic surface displacements on a remote object; the laser ultrasonic system linked with the processor; and a wireless communicator operably interfaced to the processor wherein the wireless communicator is operable to generate at least one command signal based on the typematic rate of interface; the processor is operable to issue the at least one command signal to the robotic device wherein the processor is operable to issue a second command signal when the typematic rate of interface changes beyond a predetermined threshold. 2. The wireless system of claim 1 further including a restricted system. 3. The wireless system of claim 2 wherein the restricted system includes a barrier. 4. The wireless system of claim 3 wherein the lasing system is enclosed by the barrier. 5. The wireless system of claim 3 wherein the wireless communicator opens the barrier. 6. The wireless system of claim 1 wherein the lasing operations include controlling a robotic device. 7. The wireless system of claim 6 wherein the wireless communicator generates a command signal associated with the robotic device. 8. The wireless system of claim 6 wherein the wireless communicator generates a command signal based on the typematic rate of interface. 9. The wireless system of claim 6 wherein the wireless communicator continuously generates a command signal based on a typematic rate of interface. 10. The wireless system of claim 6 wherein the wireless communicator continuously generates a plurality of command signals based on the typematic rate of interface. 11. A wireless controller operable to issue commands to a robotic device according to a typematic rate of interface, the wireless controller comprising: a processor operably coupled to the robotic device, wherein the robotic device further comprises a high-energy density system; a wireless communicator operably coupled to the processor wherein the wireless communicator is operable to generate at least one command signal based on the typematic rate of interface; the processor is operable to issue the at least one command signal to the robotic device wherein the processor is operable to issue a second command signal when the typematic rate of interface changes beyond a predetermined threshold. 12. A wireless controller operable to issue commands to a robotic device according to a typematic rate of interface, the system comprising: a processor operably coupled to the robotic device, wherein the robotic device further comprises a laser ultrasonic system operable to generate and detect ultrasonic surface displacements on a remote object; and a wireless communicator operably interfaced to the processor wherein the wireless communicator is operable to generate at least one command signal based on the typematic rate of interface; and the processor is operable to issue the at least one command signal to the robotic device wherein the processor is operable to issue a second command signal when the typematic rate of interface changes beyond a predetermined threshold. 13. A controller operable to issue to an emergency stop command according to a typematic rate of interface, the controller comprising: a processor operably coupled to the high-energy density system; a wireless communicator operably coupled to the processor wherein the wireless communicator is operable to generate at least one command signal based on the typematic rate of interface; the processor is operable to issue the at least one command signal to the high-energy density system wherein the processor is operable to issue the emergency stop command signal when the typematic rate of interface changes beyond a predetermined threshold. 