A robotic system including at least one support that supports a carriage for movement. The support may include a drive surface that is a "net shape" surface, i.e., is formed without machining. The carriage may have a traction drive that engages with the drive surface to move the carriage relative to the support. The traction drive may allow for slip at the drive surface. A bearing arrangement used to support the carriage on the support may require mainly radial forces be exerted on roller bearing elements on the carriage. A machine vision system and/or force control techniques may be used to control movement of the carriage and/or other portions of the robotic system.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: a first carriage movable relative to a first axis; a first drive system associated with the first carriage, the first drive system including a traction wheel; a first support that supports the first carriage for movement relative to the first axis, the first support having a portion with a drive surface that is contacted by the traction wheel to move the first carriage relative to the first support; and a position sensor adapted to determine a position of the first carriage relative to the first support; wherein the traction wheel and drive surface are arranged to allow for slip of the traction wheel relative to the drive surface. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the drive surface on the first support is a net shape surface requiring no machining for formation. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the position sensor and first drive system are adapted to repeatedly and accurately position the first carriage relative to the first support at one or more positions. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the position sensor includes a rotary encoder associated with a rotational axis of the traction wheel. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the first drive system includes a drive motor having a shaft, and wherein the traction wheel is mounted to the shaft and the rotary encoder detects a rotational position of the shaft. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the position sensor includes a linear encoder and/or a rotary encoder. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the position sensor includes a linear encoder that detects a linear position of the first carriage relative to the first support. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first support includes a plurality of guide rails that engage with rolling bearing elements on the first carriage. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second support attached to the first carriage, and a second carriage that is supported by the second support and is moveable relative to a second axis that is transverse to the first axis. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the second carriage is linearly movable along the second axis. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising a second drive system associated with the second carriage, the second drive system including a traction wheel, and wherein the second support includes a second portion with a drive surface that is contacted by the traction wheel of the second drive system to move the second carriage relative to the second support. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein the second portion including the drive surface is formed by a net shape manufacturing process requiring no machining. 13. The system of claim 9, further comprising a third carriage that is supported by and moveable relative to the second carriage along a third axis. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the third axis is transverse to the second axis, and wherein the third carriage includes a fourth mechanism that is rotatable about an axis parallel to the third axis relative. 15. The system of claim 13, further comprising a vision system adapted to provide image information used to control movement of the first, second and third carriages and the fourth mechanism. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein a force supplied by the traction wheel to move the first carriage is controlled based on current provided to the first drive system. 17. The system of claim 1, further comprising a controller that communicates with the first drive system and the position encoder via wiring, wherein the first support includes an enclosed space to house at least a portion of the wiring. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the portion with the drive surface is formed using a linear extrusion or pultrusion process. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the first support includes an extruded portion that forms the drive surface and includes up to three linear bearing surfaces that engage with and support the first carriage; the system further comprising: a second support having an extruded portion that forms a second drive surface and up to three linear bearing surfaces, the second support being attached to the first carriage in a cantilevered arrangement; a second carriage having a second drive system with a traction wheel that engages with the second drive surface to move the second carriage relative to the second support; and a third support attached to the second carriage. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the third support supports a third carriage that is movable relative to the third support. 21. A robotic system comprising: a first carriage movable relative to a first axis; a first drive system associated with the first carriage, the first drive system including a traction wheel; a first support that supports the first carriage for movement relative to the first axis, the first support having a portion with a drive surface that is contacted by the traction wheel to move the first carriage relative to the first support; a position sensor adapted to determine a position of the first carriage relative to the first support; and a vision system adapted to provide image information used to control movement of the first carriage; wherein the drive surface on the first support is a net shape surface requiring no machining for formation. 22. A robotic system comprising: a first carriage movable relative to a first axis; a first drive system associated with the first carriage, the first drive system including a traction wheel; a first support that supports the first carriage for movement relative to the first axis, the first support having a portion with a drive surface that is contacted by the traction wheel to move the first carriage relative to the first support; a position sensor adapted to determine a position of the first carriage relative to the first support; and wherein the drive surface on the first support is a net shape surface requiring no machining for formation, and wherein the first drive system provides a zero-backlash drive for the first carriage. 23. A robotic system comprising: a first carriage movable relative to a first axis; a first drive system associated with the first carriage, the first drive system including a traction wheel; a first support that supports the first carriage for movement relative to the first axis, the first support having a portion with a drive surface that is contacted by the traction wheel to move the first carriage relative to the first support; a position sensor adapted to determine a position of the first carriage relative to the first support; a tool adapted to engage with a workpiece and move the workpiece at a desired location; and a vision system adapted to simultaneously capture an image of the workpiece and the desired locations, wherein the drive surface on the first support is a net shape surface requiring no machining for formation. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the vision system is adapted to capture the image while viewing the desired location through an opening in a portion of the robotic system. 