A printhead assembly is provided comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting the printhead integrated circuits and carrying the printing fluid, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits. The assembly further comprises drive electronics incorporating at least two controllers arranged on printed circuit boards (PCBs) to control the printing operation of at least one printhead integrated circuit via the electrical connector, a casing supporting the printhead module and at least two mounting elements supporting the PCBs and abutting along the casing's longitudinal direction. An electrical connecting member is arranged between the abutting mounting elements so as to position conductive strips thereof to overlay a series of spaced connection strips at the edge regions of the PCBs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly of a plurality of separable individual parts, the assembly comprising: at least one printhead module part comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; a drive electronics part incorporating at least two controllers each arranged on a printed circuit board so as to control operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector; a casing part comprising a support frame removably supporting the at least one printhead module at the support member of the printhead module and at least two mounting elements arranged in abutting relationship along a longitudinal direction of the casing so that the at least one printhead module and the mounting elements are movable relative to the casing during operation of the printhead assembly, each of the printed circuit boards being removably supported by at least one of the two or more mounting elements; and an electrical connecting member part comprising a non-conductive material clad with conductive strips arranged between the abutting mounting elements so that the conductive strips are positioned to overlay a series of spaced connection strips at edge regions of each of the individual printed circuit boards. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein one printed circuit board having one controller thereon is supported by more than one mounting element. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the connection strips of the printed circuit board supported by the mounting element at one end of the support frame are connected to a data input; and the connection strips of the printed circuit board supported by the mounting element at the other end of the support frame are terminated. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least two fluid distribution members each mounting one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein each of the mounting elements comprises side regions having raised and recessed portions arranged so that the recessed portions of abutting mounting elements form a recess into which the electrical connecting member can be placed. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein the electrical connecting member is arranged so as to fit within the recess formed between abutting mounting elements. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 6, wherein there is twice as many conductive strips of the electrical connecting member as there are connection strips of the printed circuit boards, whereby each connection strip of the printed circuit board will engage with at least one of two adjacent conductive strips. 