Molecular memories, i.e., memories that incorporate molecules for charge storage, are disclosed. Molecular memory cells, molecular memory arrays, and electronic devices including molecular memory are also disclosed, as are processing systems and methods for manufacturing molecular memories. Methods of manufacturing molecular memories that enable semiconductor devices and interconnections to be manufactured monolithically with molecular memory are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A molecular storage device, comprising a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell that includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed storage molecules; a counter electrode; an auxiliary counter electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode, the counter electrode, and the auxiliary counter electrode. 2. A molecular storage device, comprising a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell that includes: a working electrode; a counter electrode; an auxiliary counter electrode; an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode, the counter electrode, and the auxiliary counter electrode; and redox-active molecules electrically coupled to at least one of the electrodes. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein at least some of the redox-active molecules are in one or more chemisorbed layers. 4. The device of claim 2, wherein the redox-active molecules are covalently bonded to at least one of the electrodes. 5. The device of claim 2, wherein the redox-active molecules are electrically coupled to the working electrode and the auxiliary counter electrode. 6. The device of claim 2, wherein the storage molecules are monomeric porphyrins, ferrocene-derivatized porphyrins, dimeric porphyrins, trimeric porphyrins, porphyrin derivatives, porphyrin polymers, or combinations thereof. 7. The device of claim 2, wherein the working electrode comprises gold, aluminum, silver, carbon, tungsten, copper, platinum, titanium, tantalum, tungsten, polysilicon, nanocrystalline silicon, titanium nitride, tantalum nitride, titanium tungsten, IrO, RuO, OsO, RhO, ITO, or combinations thereof. 8. The device of claim 2, wherein the auxiliary counter electrode comprises gold, aluminum, silver, carbon, tungsten, copper, platinum, titanium, tantalum, tungsten, polysilicon, nanocrystalline silicon, titanium nitride, tantalum nitride, titanium tungsten, IrO, RuO, OsO, RhO, ITO, or combinations thereof. 9. The device of claim 2, wherein the electrolyte comprises a polymer matrix and an ionic liquid; an ion-conducting glass or ceramic; an ion-conducting transition metal oxide, or a solid electrolyte. 10. A memory element, comprising a switching device coupled to a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell, wherein the electrochemical cell includes: a working electrode; a counter electrode; an auxiliary counter electrode; an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode, the counter electrode, and the auxiliary counter electrode; and redox-active molecules electrically coupled to at least one of the electrodes. 11. A memory element, comprising: a switching device; a bit line and a word line coupled to the switching device; and a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell coupled to the switching device, wherein the electrochemical cell includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed storage molecules; a counter electrode; an auxiliary counter electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode, the counter electrode, and the auxiliary counter electrode. 12. A memory array, comprising an array of memory elements, wherein at least some of the memory elements comprise a switching device coupled to a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell, wherein the electrochemical cell includes: a working electrode; a counter electrode; an auxiliary counter electrode; an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode, the counter electrode, and the auxiliary counter electrode; and redox-active molecules electrically coupled to at least one of the electrodes. 13. The memory array of claim 12, wherein the array comprises at least 250,000 memory elements with a switching device coupled to a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell. 14. A computing device, comprising a central processing unit coupled to a molecular memory that includes an array of memory elements, wherein at least some of the memory elements comprise a switching device coupled to a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell, wherein the electrochemical cell includes: a working electrode; a counter electrode; an auxiliary counter electrode; an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode, the counter electrode, and the auxiliary counter electrode; and redox-active molecules electrically coupled to at least one of the electrodes. 15. The computing device of claim 14, wherein the computing device is a laptop computer, personal digital assistant, cell phone, digital camera, digital camcorder, or embedded computer. 16. The computing device of claim 14, wherein the switching device is a transistor. 17. A method of reading a molecular memory device, comprising: coupling a bit line to an electrochemical cell, wherein the electrochemical cell includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to storage molecules; a counter electrode; an auxiliary counter electrode; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode, the counter electrode, and the auxiliary counter electrode; and monitoring the bit line for changes in potential indicative of the oxidation state of the storage molecules. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the auxiliary counter electrode is electrically coupled to redox-active molecules. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the electrochemical cell is micron or sub-micron in size. 20. A method of reading a molecular memory device, comprising: precharging a bit line to a predetermined potential; coupling the bit line to an electrochemical cell, wherein the electrochemical cell includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to storage molecules; a counter electrode; an auxiliary counter electrode; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode, the counter electrode, and the auxiliary counter electrode; and monitoring the bit line for changes in potential indicative of the oxidation state of the storage molecules. 21. A method of writing to a molecular memory device, comprising: coupling a bit line to an electrochemical cell, wherein the electrochemical cell includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to storage molecules; a counter electrode; an auxiliary counter electrode; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode, the counter electrode, and the auxiliary counter electrode; and applying a voltage to the bit line to set the oxidation state of the storage molecules. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the auxiliary counter electrode is electrically coupled to redox-active molecules. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein the electrochemical cell is micron or sub-micron in size. 