In processing an integrated circuit structure including a contact arrangement that is initially covered by a stop layer, a first plasma is used to etch to form openings through an overall insulation layer covered by a patterned layer of photoresist such that one contact opening is associated with each contact. Stripping of the patterned layer of photoresist and related residues is performed. After stripping, the stop layer is removed from the contacts. In one feature, the stop layer is removed from the contacts by etching the stop layer using a plasma that is generated from a plasma gas input that includes hydrogen and essentially no oxygen. In another feature, the photoresist is stripped after the stop layer is removed. Stripping the patterned layer of photoresist and the related residues is performed, in this case, using a plasma that is formed predominantly including hydrogen without oxygen.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In an overall technique for fabricating an integrated circuit on a wafer having an active device structure, during which fabrication, a patterned layer of photoresist is formed on an overall insulation layer that is itself supported directly on a stop layer that is, in turn, supported directly on the active device structure for use in etching contact openings to reach a contact arrangement that is defined by the active device structure in which each contact of a plurality of contacts is covered by said stop layer, a method, comprising: selectively etching, using a first plasma in cooperation with the patterned layer of photoresist, to form a plurality of contact openings through said overall insulation layer having contact hole edges such that one contact opening is associated with each contact in a way which at least partially exposes the stop layer above each contact and which, at least potentially, produces etch related residues; stripping said patterned layer of photoresist and said related residues using a second plasma formed from a plasma gas input that includes hydrogen; and after stripping, removing said stop layer from said contacts to avoid excessive faceting or rounding of the contact hole edges. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said plasma gas input includes up to approximately 10% by volume of a nitrogen containing gas. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said plasma gas input includes up to approximately 5% by volume of a fluorine containing gas. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said plasma gas input includes hydrogen gas with approximately 10% nitrogen containing gas and about 2% of a fluorinated gas. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said fluorinated gas is carbon tetrafluoride. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein said plasma gas input includes helium. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said second plasma is substantially nitrogen free. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said second plasma is substantially oxygen free. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said stop layer is formed from silicon nitride. 10. In an overall technique for fabricating an integrated circuit on a wafer having an active device structure, during which fabrication, a patterned layer of photoresist is formed on an overall insulation layer that is itself supported directly on a stop layer that is, in turn, supported directly on the active device structure for use in etching contact openings to reach a contact arrangement that is defined by the active device structure in which each contact of a plurality of contacts is covered by said stop layer and each contact includes a silicide, a method, comprising: selectively etching, using a first plasma in cooperation with the patterned layer of photoresist, to form a plurality of contact openings through said overall insulation layer having contact hole edges such that one contact opening is associated with each contact in a way which at least partially exposes the stop layer above each contact and which, at least potentially, produces etch related residues; stripping said patterned layer of photoresist and said related residues; and after stripping, removing said stop layer from said contacts using a second plasma that is formed predominantly from hydrogen gas in an absence of oxygen to avoid excessive faceting or rounding of the contact hole edges. 11. In an overall technique for fabricating an integrated circuit on a wafer having an active device structure, during which fabrication, a patterned layer of photoresist is formed on an overall insulation layer that is itself supported directly on a stop layer that is, in turn, supported directly on the active device structure for use in etching contact openings to reach a contact arrangement that is defined by the active device structure in which each contact of a plurality of contacts is covered by said stop layer, a method, comprising: selectively etching, using a first plasma in cooperation with the patterned layer of photoresist, to form a plurality of contact openings through said overall insulation layer having contact hole edges such that one contact opening is associated with each contact in a way which at least partially exposes the stop layer above each contact and which, at least potentially, produces etch related residues; stripping said patterned layer of photoresist and said related residues; and after stripping, removing said stop layer from said contacts using a second plasma to avoid excessive faceting or rounding of the contact hole edges and performing at least a concluding portion of the removal of said stop layer by forming said second plasma using only pure hydrogen. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein an initial portion of said removing includes forming said second plasma using a fluorinated gas in combination with said hydrogen gas. 13. In an overall technique for fabricating an integrated circuit on a wafer having an active device structure, during which fabrication, a patterned layer of photoresist is formed on an overall insulation layer that is itself supported directly on a stop layer that is, in turn, supported directly on the active device structure for use in etching contact openings to reach a contact arrangement that is defined by the active device structure in which each contact of a plurality of contacts is covered by said stop layer, a method comprising: selectively etching, using a first plasma in cooperation with the patterned layer of photoresist, to form a plurality of contact openings through said overall insulation layer having contact hole edges such that one contact opening is associated with each contact in a way which at least partially exposes the stop layer above each contact and which, at least potentially, produces etch related residues; stripping said patterned layer of photoresist and said related residues; and after stripping, removing said stop layer from said contacts using a second plasma to avoid excessive faceting or rounding of the contact hole edges and performing at least a concluding portion of the removal of said stop layer by forming said second plasma using a combination of only pure hydrogen and helium. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said removing is performed with said second plasma using ion bombardment to anisotropically remove the stop layer. 15. In an overall technique for fabricating an integrated circuit on a wafer having an active device structure, during which fabrication, a patterned layer of photoresist is formed on an overall insulation layer that is itself supported directly on a silicon nitride stop layer that is, in turn, supported directly on the active device structure for use in etching at least one contact opening to reach a silicide containing contact which is defined by the active device structure and covered by the stop layer, a method, comprising: selectively etching, using a first plasma in cooperation with the patterned layer of photoresist, to form a contact opening through said overall insulation layer such that the contact opening is associated with said contact in a way which at least partially exposes the stop layer above the contact and which, at least potentially, produces etch related residues; stripping said patterned layer of photoresist and said related residues; and after stripping, removing said stop layer from said contacts using a second plasma that is formed predominantly from hydrogen gas in an absence of oxygen, said second plasma being formed from a plasma gas input that includes (i) hydrogen gas, (ii) a nitrogen containing gas in an amount up to approximately 10% by volume of the plasma gas input, and (iii) a fluorine containing gas up to approximately 5% by volume of the plasma gas input. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of said stripping is performed using a plasma that is generated using an input gas mixture consisting of hydrogen. 17. In an overall technique for fabricating an integrated circuit on a wafer having an active device structure and as part of an intermediate step a contact, which includes a silicide and which forms part of the active device structure, is protected by a stop layer, a method for removing said stop layer from the contact, said method comprising: etching said stop layer using a plasma that is generated from a plasma gas input that includes hydrogen and essentially no oxygen to remove the stop layer from said contact. 18. The method of claim 17 including completing said etching of the stop layer using a gas mixture consisting of pure hydrogen gas as said plasma gas input. 19. The method of claim 17 including completing said etching of the stop layer using a combination of only pure hydrogen and helium as said plasma gas input. 20. The method of claim 17 including performing said etching anisotropically. 21. The method of claim 17 wherein said plasma gas input includes a fluorine containing gas. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said fluorine containing gas is selected as at least one member of the group consisting of a fluorocarbon, SiF.sub.4, NF.sub.3 and SF.sub.6. 23. In an overall technique for fabricating an integrated circuit on a wafer having an active device structure, during which fabrication, a patterned layer of photoresist is formed on an overall insulation layer that is itself supported directly on a stop layer that is, in turn, supported directly on the active device structure for use in etching contact openings to reach a contact arrangement that is defined by the active device structure in which each contact of a plurality of contacts is covered by said stop layer, a method, comprising: selectively etching, using a first plasma in cooperation with the patterned layer of photoresist, to form a plurality of contact openings through said overall insulation layer having contact hole edges such that one contact opening is associated with each contact in a way which at least partially exposes the stop layer above each contact and which, at least potentially, produces etch related residues; stripping said patterned layer of photoresist and said related residues; and after stripping, removing said stop layer from said contacts using a plasma that is predominately formed from hydrogen to avoid excessive faceting or rounding of the contact hole edges. 