The invention provides an efficiently automated incubation device that reduces the number of powered moving parts in the device and the amount of air transfer between environments that are internal and external to the device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An incubation device, comprising: (a) a housing that comprises a plurality of doors arranged in at least one vertical column, which doors close at least one opening disposed through a surface of the housing; and (b) a door hold-open mechanism disposed parallel to a longitudinal axis of the vertical column of doors, said mechanism comprising a member to which is attached a plurality of prongs, wherein the member is positioned such that one prong is adjacent to each of at least two doors in the vertical column of doors; and wherein movement of the door hold-open mechanism in the direction parallel to a longitudinal axis of the vertical column of doors results in a prong contacting any door that is at least partially open, thereby holding open the door that is at least partially open. 2. The incubation device of claim 1, wherein the door hold-open mechanism is moveably coupled to the housing by an actuating device that moves the door hold-open mechanism back and forth in the direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the column of doors. 3. The incubation device of claim 1, wherein each door is hinged at a bottom edge of the door and downward movement of the door hold-open mechanism results in a prong contacting the door, if the door is at least partially open, and holding the door open until the door hold-open mechanism is moved in an upward direction. 4. The incubation device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the doors comprises a restraining mechanism connected thereto that closes the door closed in the absence of an applied opposing force. 5. The incubation device of claim 4, wherein the restraining mechanism is self-actuating. 6. The incubation device of claim 4, wherein the actuation mechanism comprises at least one spring. 7. The incubation device of claim 1, wherein the doors in the vertical column of doors do not comprise individual actuator mechanisms for opening the doors. 8. The incubation device of claim 1, further comprising at least one movable shelf disposed within the housing, which shelf is capable of aligning with the opening. 9. The incubation device of claim 8, wherein the shelf comprises a first and second angled surface, wherein the first and second angled surfaces align a sample container on the shelf. 10. The incubation device of claim 9, wherein the first and second angled surfaces are angled, tapered or rounded towards an internal space of the shelf. 11. The incubation device of claim 8, wherein the shelf comprises: (a) a first section, wherein the first section is proximal to central interior of the housing; and (b) a second section, which is contiguous to the first section and proximal to the outer interior of the housing, wherein the second section is smaller than the first section and when the shelf is aligned with the opening the second section allows a handling apparatus to grip the sample container through the opening. 12. The incubation device of claim 8, wherein the shelf comprises an identification label. 13. The incubation device of claim 8, wherein the shelf comprises a sensor. 14. The incubation device of claim 1, further comprising a sample container handling apparatus disposed external to the housing, which handling apparatus is capable of moving at least one sample container through the opening to or from the shelf. 15. The incubation device of claim 14, wherein each of the doors is independently accessible by the sample container handling apparatus. 16. The incubation device of claim 14, wherein the sample container handling apparatus comprises a robotic armature. 17. The incubation device of claim 14, wherein the sample container handling apparatus comprises a gripper configured to grip a sample container. 18. The incubation device of claim 17, wherein the sample container is selected from the group consisting of: a plate, a sample plate, a micro-well plate, a reaction block, a reaction block carrier, a sample holder, a petri dish, a test tube, a test tube rack, a vial, a crucible, a reaction vessel, a reaction flask, and a tray. 19. The incubation device of claim 14, further comprising at least one logic device operably connected at least to the sample container handling apparatus, which logic device comprises one or more logic instructions that direct movement of the sample container handling apparatus. 20. The incubation device of claim 1, further comprising a first controller operably connected to the housing, which first controller controls one or more internal housing conditions. 21. The incubation device of claim 20, wherein the internal housing conditions comprise one or more of: temperature, humidity, or gas composition. 22. The incubation device of claim 1, wherein the vertical column comprises an access panel. 23. The incubation device of claim 22, wherein the access panel is hinged to the housing. 24. The incubation device of claim 23, wherein the access panel comprises a gasket and a lock or latch. 25. The incubation device of claim 22, wherein the access panel is disposed within an additional door in the housing. 26. The incubation device of claim 1, wherein the vertical column of doors comprises between two and 50 doors. 27. The incubation device of claim 1, wherein the incubation device comprises a plurality of shelves, wherein each member of the plurality of shelves is capable of aligning with a different door in the vertical column of doors. 28. The incubation device of claim 27, wherein at least some members of the plurality of shelves are vertically aligned relative to one another in at least one vertical column. 29. The incubation device of claim 28, wherein the vertical column comprises between two and 50 shelves. 30. The incubation device of claim 28, wherein the incubation device comprises a plurality of vertical columns, which vertical columns are operably connected to a rotatable support disposed in the housing. 31. The incubation device of claim 30, wherein the plurality of vertical columns comprises between two and 50 members. 32. The incubation device of claim 30, further comprising a controller that controls rotation of the rotatable support. 33. The incubation device of claim 1, further comprising an additional door that is not present in a vertical column of doors, wherein the additional door allows access to interior of housing. 34. The incubation device of claim 33, wherein the additional door comprises a gasket and a lock or latch. 35. The incubation device of claim 1, further comprising a computer system comprising one or more data input source, a data storage location and a data output device. 36. The incubation device of 35, wherein the one or more data input source is a label reader, an operator input device or internal housing condition transmitting device. 37. The incubation device of claim 35, wherein the data storage location comprises a shelf database. 38. The incubation device of claim 35, wherein the data output device comprises a computer monitor or digital readout. 39. An incubation device, comprising: (a) a housing comprising a plurality of self-closing doors, which doors close at least one opening disposed through a surface of the housing, wherein the doors are vertically aligned relative to one another in at least one vertical door column; (b) a rotatable support disposed within the housing, which support comprises a plurality of vertical shelf columns, wherein each vertical shelf column comprises a plurality of shelves that are vertically aligned relative to one another, wherein each member of the plurality shelves in a selected vertical shelf column is capable of aligning with a different member of the plurality of self-closing doors in the vertical door column; (c) a sample container handling apparatus disposed external to the housing, which handling apparatus is capable of moving at least one sample container through the opening to or from selected shelves in the plurality of vertical shelf columns; (d) a door hold-open mechanism disposed parallel to a longitudinal axis of the vertical column of doors, said mechanism comprising a member to which is attached a plurality of prongs, wherein the member is positioned such that one prong is adjacent to each of at least two doors in the vertical column of doors, and wherein movement of the door hold-open mechanism in the direction parallel to a longitudinal axis of the vertical column of doors results in a prong contacting any door that is at least partially open, thereby holding open the door that is at least partially open; and, (e) a controller operably connected to the housing, which controller controls one or more internal housing conditions. 