A machine for polishing aircraft windows including a window positioner device securable to the side of an aircraft, a frame for holding a polishing system attachable to the window positioner device, a robot seat frame system attachable to the frame, and a robot secured to the robot seat including a robot arm with capability to pick up, use and discard abrasive pads useful for polishing aircraft windows.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A machine for polishing aircraft windows of an aircraft comprising a window positioner device securable to a side of the aircraft surrounding the aircraft window; a frame, attachable to the window positioner device, wherein the window positioner device is removed from the side of the aircraft once the frame is attached to the side of the aircraft in a predetermined location surrounding the aircraft window; a robot seat frame system, attachable to the frame, and a robot secured to the robot seat frame system, wherein the robot includes a robot arm with motor and capability to pick up, use and discard abrasive pads useful for polishing aircraft windows. 2. The machine of claim 1 wherein the window positioner device comprises an upper and lower frame, a clear insert secured between the frames, and a window outline contained in the insert. 3. The machine of claim 1 wherein the frame comprises frame members and an attachment system for attachment of the frame to the side of an aircraft. 4. The machine of claim 1 wherein the robot seat frame system comprises frame system supports and a support for holding the robot. 5. The machine of claim 1 further comprising a splash guard to limit splashing of lubricant onto the side of the aircraft. 6. The machine for polishing aircraft windows of claim 1 further comprising a drain pan. 7. The machine for polishing aircraft windows of claim 1 further comprising a series of frames secured to the side of an aircraft, whereby the robot seat frame system moves from one frame to the next frame to polish successive windows on the side of the aircraft. 8. The machine for polishing aircraft windows of claim 1 wherein the window positioner device further comprises a system for positioning the device on the side of an aircraft system. 9. The machine for polishing aircraft windows of claim 1 further comprising a remote operating system attachable to the robot. 10. The machine for polishing aircraft windows of claim 1 wherein the robot comprises a six-axis robot. 11. The machine of claim 1 wherein the robot seat frame system further comprises a polish pad removal device. 12. The machine of claim 1 wherein the robot seat frame system further comprises a receptacle for holding polishing pads. 13. The machine of claim 12 wherein the polishing pads within the receptacle have various levels of abrasion capability. 14. A machine for polishing aircraft windows comprising a window positioner device; a frame, attachable to the window positioner device; a robot seat frame system, attachable to the frame, and a robot secured to the robot seat frame system, wherein the robot includes a robot arm with motor and capability to pick up, use and discard abrasive pads useful for polishing aircraft windows, and wherein the machine further comprises a splash guard to limit splashing of lubricant onto the side of the aircraft. 15. A machine for polishing aircraft windows comprising a window positioner device; a frame, attachable to the window positioner device; a robot seat frame system, attachable to the frame, and a robot secured to the robot seat frame system, wherein the robot includes a robot arm with motor and capability to pick up, use and discard abrasive pads useful for polishing aircraft windows, and wherein the machine further comprises a drain pan. 