A robotic data storage library comprising a virtual port and a method for providing a virtual port for a robotic data storage library are disclosed. The virtual exit port, for example, comprises one or more storage locations of the library that are defined as a virtual port. In one embodiment, for example, the virtual port comprises a virtual exit port for holding a data storage element that is to be exported from the library. In this embodiment, for example, the virtual exit port is defined prior to the library receiving a command to export a data storage element. In another embodiment, the virtual port comprises an entry port, an exit port or an entry/exit port. In yet another embodiment, a method for transferring a data storage element directly between an actual port (entry and/or exit) of a robotic data storage library and another location within the robotic data storage library not defined as the virtual port is disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for exporting a data storage element from a robotic data storage library comprising: defining a first and second partition associated with the library wherein each of the partitions comprise at least two storage locations wherein the storage locations are substantially comprised within the library; designating at least one of the storage locations associated with the first partition as a first virtual exit port; designating at least one of the storage locations associated with the second partition as a second virtual exit port; receiving a first storage element export command from a host computer to transport a first data storage element from one of the storage locations associated with the first partition to an actual exit port; moving the first data storage element from the first storage location to the first virtual exit port in response to the first storage element export command; responding to the host that the first data storage element has been moved to the actual exit port; receiving a second storage element export command to transport the first data storage element from the first virtual exit port to the actual exit port; moving the first data storage element from the first virtual exit port to the actual exit port in response to the second storage element export command; and exporting the first storage element out of the library. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving a third storage element export command from the host computer to transport a second data storage element from a second storage location associated with the second partition to the actual exit port; moving the second data storage element from the second storage location to the second virtual exit port in response to the third storage element export command; responding to the host that the second data storage element has been moved to the actual exit port; receiving a fourth storage element export command to transport the second data storage element from the second virtual exit port to the actual exit port; moving the second data storage element from the second virtual exit port to the actual exit port in response to the fourth storage element export command; and exporting the second storage element out of the library. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving a third storage element export command from a second host computer to transport a second data storage element from a second storage location associated with the second partition to the actual exit port; moving the second data storage element from the second storage location to the second virtual exit port in response to the third storage element export command; responding to the second host that the second data storage element has been moved to the actual exit port; receiving a fourth storage element export command to transport the second data storage element from the second virtual exit port to the actual exit port; moving the second data storage element from the second virtual exit port to the actual exit port in response to the fourth storage element export command; and exporting the second storage element out of the library. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising designating a third virtual exit port external to the first or second partitions wherein the third virtual exit port is capable of receiving a third data storage element from either the first or the second partition. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising defining a third partition associated with the third virtual exit port wherein the third partition comprises a plurality of storage locations. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising designating a fourth virtual exit port associated with the third partition. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising defining a third partition associated with a third virtual exit port wherein the third partition comprises a plurality of storage locations and wherein the third exit port is capable of receiving a second data storage element from on of the storage locations associated with the third partition. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising designating a second of the storage locations associated with the first partition as a third virtual exit port capable of receiving a second data storage element from a third storage location associated with the first partition. 9. The method of claim 3 wherein the moving of the first storage element and the third storage element to the respective virtual ports is accomplished while preventing a conflict. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the first storage element export command when received first is attended to first. 11. A robotic data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage locations substantially comprised within the library; a first and second partition; each of the partitions comprising at least two of the storage locations wherein the storage locations associated with the first partition are capable of holding at least a first data storage element and the storage locations associated with the second partition are capable of holding at least a second data storage element; at least one of the storage locations associated with the first partition designated as a first virtual exit port; at least one of the storage locations associated with the second partition designated as a second virtual exit port; a data transfer interface adapted to receive at least the first data storage element and establish a data transfer path between a host computer and the first data storage element; an actual port capable of transferring the data storage elements out of the library; a transport unit adapted to move the first data storage element between the storage locations and between the storage locations and the actual port; a controller adapted to direct the transport unit to move the first data storage element to the first virtual exit port from one of the storage locations associated with the first partition in response to at least a first data storage element export command from the host to export the first data storage element from the library. 12. The robotic data storage library of claim 11 wherein the actual port is both an actual entry port and actual exit port. 13. The robotic data storage library of claim 11 wherein the transport unit is adapted to move the first data storage element from the first virtual exit port to the actual port in response to a later export command. 14. The robotic data storage library of claim 11 wherein the transport unit is adapted to move the first data storage element from the first virtual exit port to the actual port upon an action to physically remove the first data storage element from the library. 15. The robotic data storage library of claim 11 wherein the controller is further adapted to direct the transport unit to move the second data storage element to the second virtual exit port from one of the storage locations associated with the second partition in response to a second data storage element export command from the host to export the second data storage element from the library. 16. The robotic data storage library of claim 11 wherein the first partition is associated with a first user and the second partition is associated with a second user. 17. The robotic data storage library of claim 11 further comprising a third virtual exit port is adapted to receive the first or second data storage element wherein the third virtual exit port is independent of the first or second partition. 18. The robotic data storage library of claim 11 further comprising a third partition comprising a plurality of third partition storage locations wherein at least one of the third partition storage locations is designated as a third virtual exit port. 19. A robotic data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage locations substantially comprised within the library wherein each of the storage locations are capable of holding a data storage element; a first partition comprising at least a first storage element and second partition comprising at least a second storage element; the first partition comprising a first group of storage locations and the second partition comprising second group of storage locations; a third group of storage locations wherein at least one of the third group of storage locations is a virtual exit port; a data transfer interface adapted to receive at least the first data storage element and establish a data transfer path between a host computer and the first data storage element; an actual port capable of transferring the data storage elements out of the library; a transport unit adapted to move the data storage elements between the storage locations and between the storage locations and the actual port; a controller adapted to direct the transport unit to move the first data storage element from the first partition to the virtual exit port in response to at least a first data storage element export command from the host wherein the first data storage export command is intended for exporting the first data storage element from the library. 20. The robotic data storage library of claim 19 wherein the transport unit is adapted to move the first data storage element from the virtual exit port to the actual port in response to a later export command. 