An improved particle beam treatment system optionally includes exchangeable particle beam nozzles. These particle beam nozzles may be automatically moved from a storage location to a particle beam path or between particle beam paths for use in medical applications. Movement may be achieved using a conveyance, gantry, rail system, or the like. The improved particle beam treatment system optionally also includes more than two alternative particle beam paths. These alternative particle beam paths may be directed to a patient from a variety of different angles and in different planes.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system comprising: a treatment station for particle beam treatment of a patient; a particle accelerator configured to generate a particle beam; a first particle beam path through which the particle beam can be delivered to the patient; and a transport system configured to automatically move a first of a plurality of different particle beam nozzles to the first particle beam path, and to separately move at least a second of the plurality of different particle beam nozzles to the first particle beam path. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system is further configured to automatically move the first of the plurality of different particle beam nozzles to a second particle beam path through which the particle beam can be delivered to the patient. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system is configured to automatically move the first of the plurality of different particle beam nozzles from a nozzle storage into the first particle beam path. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first particle beam path includes a shutter configured to protect a particle transparent vacuum interface when none of the plurality of different particle beam nozzles is at the first particle beam path. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of different particle beam nozzles include a double scattering particle beam nozzle, a single scattering particle beam nozzle, or a scanning particle beam nozzle. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system is configured to move the first of the plurality of different particle beam nozzles while the patient is at the treatment station. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system is configured to replace a first of the plurality of different particle beam nozzles in the first particle beam path with a second of the plurality of different particle beam nozzles in less than 15 minutes. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the particle beam includes a proton beam. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system or the plurality of different particle beam nozzles includes a conveyance. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the first particle beam path is configured to deliver the particle beam from beneath the patient. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system is configured to automatically move a first of a plurality of different particle bam nozzles to the first particle beam path under control of a processing unit. 12. A method comprising: generating a first particle beam of high-energy particles; directing the first particle beam of high-energy particles along a particle beam path; modifying the first particle beam of high-energy particles using a first particle beam nozzle; treating a first patient using the first particle beam of high-energy particles modified using the first particle beam nozzle; exchanging the first particle beam nozzle for a second particle beam nozzle under control of a processing unit; generating a second particle beam of high-energy particles; directing the second particle beam of high-energy particles along the particle beam path; modifying the second particle beam of high energy particles using the second particle beam nozzle; and treating the first patient or a second patient using the second particle beam of high-energy particles modified using the second particle beam nozzle. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein exchanging the first particle beam nozzle for the second particle beam nozzle is performed while the first patient is at a treatment station. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein exchanging the first particle beam nozzle for the second particle beam nozzle is performed in under 15 minutes. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein exchanging the first particle beam nozzle for the second particle beam nozzle is performed using a transport system. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein exchanging the first particle beam nozzle for the second particle beam nozzle includes closing and opening a shutter. 17. The method of claim 12, wherein the first particle beam nozzle is a double scattering nozzle, a single scattering nozzle or a scanning nozzle. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein the first particle beam of high-energy particles includes protons. 19. The method of claim 12, further including positioning the second particle beam nozzle relative to the particle beam path using a guide pin. 20. The method of claim 12, further including positioning the second particle beam nozzle relative to the particle beam path using a position sensor. 21. The method of claim 12, further including retrieving the second particle beam nozzle from a nozzle storage under control of a processing unit. 22. A system comprising: a first particle beam nozzle configured for use in a first treatment type; a second particle beam nozzle configured for use in a second treatment type; and a transport system configured to alternatively position, under control of a processing unit, the first particle beam nozzle and the second particle beam nozzle between a particle accelerator and a treatment station. 