A measurement system for measuring aspects of a wafer combines an apparatus for performing a conductivity measurement, such as a four-point probe system, with apparatus for performing an optical measurement, such as a photoacoustic measurement system. Results are obtained and combined to provide comprehensive data sets describing the characteristics of the thin film substrate therein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A measurement system comprising: a first subsystem for performing an optical measurement of a measurement site on a wafer using sequential illumination along at least one beam path; a second subsystem mounted adjacent to the first subsystem, the second subsystem for performing an electrical measurement of conductivity on the measurement site using a set of probes supported by a probe support; and a controller for operating a translation stage to align the measurement site with the first subsystem and the second subsystem; wherein the first subsystem and the second subsystem are independently used to calculate a property of the wafer. 2. A system as in claim 1, where the first subsystem and the second subsystem share services comprising at least one of vacuum, compressed gas, environmental controls and electrical power. 3. A system as in claim 1, the first subsystem comprises a photoacoustic measurement system. 4. A system as in claim 1, the second subsystem comprises a four point probe system. 5. A system as in claim 1, further comprising the translation stage that is configured to move the wafer between a location in the first subsystem suitable to allow the first subsystem to perform the optical measurement on the measurement site and between a location in the second subsystem suitable to allow the second subsystem to perform the electrical measurement on the measurement site. 6. A system as in claim 1, wherein the controller aligns the measurement site for the first subsystem and the measurement site for the second subsystem to be at substantially the same location. 7. A measurement system comprising: a first subsystem for performing an optical measurement using sequential illumination along at least one beam path of a measurement site on a wafer; and a second subsystem for performing an electrical measurement of conductivity on the measurement site using a set of probes supported by a probe support; in which the probe support comprises means for moving said set of probes from a probe measurement position that would interfere with the at least one beam path during optical measurement to a non-blocking position that does not interfere with the at least one beam path during optical measurement; wherein the first subsystem and the second subsystem are independently used to calculate a property of the wafer. 8. A system as in claim 7, the first subsystem comprises a photoacoustic measurement system. 9. A system as in claim 7, the second subsystem comprises a four point probe system. 10. A system as in claim 7, wherein the probe support is adapted for insertion into position for making a measurement. 11. A system as in claim 10, wherein insertion comprises one of horizontal injection, vertical lowering and cantilever lowering. 12. A system as in claim 7, wherein the measurement site for the first subsystem and the measurement site for the second subsystem are at substantially the same location. 13. A method of measuring a wafer comprising: positioning a first measurement site of a set of measurement sites on the wafer in a measurement area of a first subsystem for performing an optical measurement using sequential illumination along at least one beam path striking the wafer; using the first subsystem, making an optical measurement on the first measurement site to produce optical measurement data; using a second subsystem, making a conductivity measurement on the first measurement site to produce conductivity measurement data; independently calculating a property of the wafer from the optical measurement data; independently calculating the same property of the wafer from the conductivity measurement data; correlating the independently calculated properties to form a result; and repeating the positioning, the making an optical measurement, the making a conductivity measurement, the calculations and the correlating until results are formed for all measurement sites. 14. A method as in claim 13, wherein making the optical measurement comprises operating a photoacoustic measurement system. 15. A method as in claim 13, wherein making the conductivity measurement comprises operating a four point probe system. 16. A method as in claim 13, further comprising using a robotic system for at least one of transferring the wafer and positioning at least one of the measurement sites. 17. A method as in claim 13, further comprising determining a statistic for qualifying at least one result. 18. A method as in claim 17, wherein the statistic is a correlation coefficient. 19. A method as in claim 17, further comprising: using the statistic to adjust the results. 20. A method as in claim 13, further comprising: using the statistic to determine that at least one of the first subsystem or the second subsystem should be adjusted. 21. A method as in claim 13, further comprising positioning the measurement site in the measurement area of the second subsystem prior to the making a conductivity measurement. 22. A method as in claim 13, wherein each of the results is representative of the thickness of at least one film on the wafer at the measurement site. 23. A method as in claim 13, further comprising performing an evaluation using the results. 24. A method as in claim 23, wherein the each of the results is indicative of a thickness of a film on the wafer at the measurement site, and wherein performing an evaluation comprises at least one of the following: verifying a thickness of the film; assessing thickness determined through performing additional measurements using the first and second subsystems; or adjusting measured results in accordance with at least one statistical test. 25. A method as in claim 13, wherein the first measurement site is positioned so that the first subsystem and second subsystem produce data corresponding to substantially the same location. 26. A method for operating a dual measurement system, the method comprising: making a measurement with a photoacoustic system at a measurement site for independently identifying information regarding at least one property of the measurement site; making a measurement with a conductivity system; and evaluating the at least one property of the measurement site using at least the information and data from the measurement made with the conductivity system. 27. A method as in claim 26, wherein the at least one property comprises at least one of adhesion, inter-diffusion and a missing layer. 28. A method as in claim 26, wherein the information comprises bulk conductivity of the measurement site. 29. A method as in claim 26, wherein evaluating comprises determining if a proper phase of a substrate has been formed. 30. A method as in claim 26, wherein the first measurement site is positioned so that the photoacoustic system and the conductivity system make measurements at substantially the same location. 31. An apparatus for determining a thickness of a film on a wafer, comprising: a photo-acoustic measurement system and a four-point probe measurement system linked by means for positioning a measurement site on a wafer in the measurement region of the photo-acoustic measurement system and at a later time for positioning the measurement site in the measurement region of the four-point probe measurement system; wherein data provided by the photo-acoustic system is independently used to determine the thickness, the data from the four-point probe system is independently used to determine the thickness, and the determinations of thickness are correlated. 32. An apparatus as in claim 31, wherein the positioning means positions the measurement site for the photoacoustic measurement system and the measurement site for the four-point probe measurement system to be at substantially the same location. 33. An apparatus for determining the thickness of a film on a wafer, comprising: a photo-acoustic measurement system linked to means for positioning a measurement site on a wafer in the measurement region of the photo-acoustic measurement system and linked to means for inserting and causing a four-point probe head assembly of a four point probe measurement system to electrically contact the measurement site in the measurement region of the photo-acoustic measurement system; wherein data provided by the photo-acoustic system is independently used to determine the thickness, the data from the four-point probe system is independently used to determine the thickness, and the determinations of thickness are correlated. 34. An apparatus as in claim 33, wherein the positioning means positions the measurement site for the photoacoustic measurement system and the measurement site for the four-point probe measurement system to be at substantially the same location. 