Disclosed is an antenna calibration technique for performing absolute antenna calibration. An antenna to be calibrated is positioned in a first position, called a home position, and records data samples from received satellite signals. The antenna is then moved to another location, called a non-home position, and records data samples from received satellite signals while at the non-home position. The antenna is then returned to the home position and records additional data samples. During the time that the antenna to be calibrated is recording its data samples, an auxiliary antenna is also recording satellite signal data samples. The data samples taken by the antenna to be calibrated during the home and non-home positions are differenced with the data samples taken by the auxiliary antenna during the same time period. The differenced data are interpolated to determine, at a particular time, an estimate of what the differenced data would be if the antenna to be calibrated occupied both the home and non-home positions at the same point in time. This allows for determination of the phase center of the antenna to be calibrated by differencing the interpolated estimates.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for determining a phase center of a first antenna comprising the steps of: recording a plurality of first satellite signal data samples while said first antenna is located at a first position; recording a plurality of second satellite signal data samples while said first antenna is located at a second position; calculating a plurality of first differences of said first satellite signal data samples and satellite signal data samples recorded at an auxiliary antenna; calculating a plurality of second differences of said second satellite signal data samples and satellite signal data samples recorded at said auxiliary antenna; and calculating said phase center of said first antenna based on said first and second differences. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of calculating said phase center of said first antenna based on said first and second differences further comprises the steps of: interpolating said plurality of first differences; interpolating said plurality of second differences; differencing said interpolated first differences and said interpolated second differences to generate and estimated difference; and calculating said phase center based on said estimated difference. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said antenna is oriented substantially upwards in said first position. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said differences are double differences. 5. A method for determining a phase center of a first antenna comprising the steps of: positioning said first antenna at a first position and recording a first plurality of satellite signal data samples; positioning said first antenna at a second position and recording a second plurality of satellite signal data samples; returning said first antenna to said first position and recording a third plurality of satellite signal data samples; calculating difference data of satellite signal data samples recorded at an auxiliary antenna and said first and third plurality of satellite signal data samples to generate first position difference data; calculating difference data of satellite signal data samples recorded at said auxiliary antenna and said second plurality of satellite signal data samples to generate second position difference data; and calculating a phase center of said first antenna based on said first and second position difference data. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said step of calculating a phase center of said first antenna based on said first and second position difference data further comprises the steps of: interpolating said first position difference data; and interpolating said second position difference data. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of: differencing said interpolated first position difference data and said interpolated second position difference data. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein said antenna is oriented substantially upwards in said first position. 9. The method of claim 5 wherein said difference data is double difference data. 10. A method for determining a phase center of a first antenna comprising the steps of: positioning said first antenna at a plurality of non-home positions and recording satellite signal data samples at each of said non-home positions; periodically re-positioning said first antenna at a home position and recording satellite signal data samples at said home position; calculating home position difference data of satellite signal data samples recorded at an auxiliary antenna and home position data samples to generate home position difference data; calculating non-home position difference data of satellite signal data samples recorded at said auxiliary antenna and said non-home satellite signal data samples to generate non-home position difference data; and calculating a phase center of said first antenna based on said home and non-home position difference data. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said step of calculating a phase center of said first antenna based on said home and non-home position difference data further comprises the steps of: interpolating said home position difference data; and interpolating said non-home position difference data. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of: differencing said interpolated home position difference data and said interpolated non-home position difference data. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein said antenna is oriented substantially upwards in said first position. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein said difference data is double difference data. 15. A computer readable medium comprising computer program instructions which, when executed by a processor, define steps for determining a phase center of a first antenna, said steps comprising: recording a plurality of first satellite signal data samples while said first antenna is located at a first position; recording a plurality of second satellite signal data samples while said first antenna is located at a second position; calculating a plurality of first differences of said first satellite signal data samples and satellite signal data samples recorded at an auxiliary antenna; calculating a plurality of second differences of said second satellite signal data samples and satellite signal data samples recorded at said auxiliary antenna; and calculating said phase center of said first antenna based on said first and second differences. 16. The computer readable medium of claim 15 wherein said computer program instructions for calculating said phase center of said first antenna based on said first and second differences further comprises computer program instructions defining the steps of: interpolating said plurality of first differences; interpolating said plurality of second differences; differencing said interpolated first differences and said interpolated second differences to generate and estimated difference; and calculating said phase center based on said estimated difference. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein said differences are double differences. 18. An apparatus for determining a phase center of a first antenna comprising: means for positioning said first antenna at a first position and recording a first plurality of satellite signal data samples; means for positioning said first antenna at a second position and recording a second plurality of satellite signal data samples; means for returning said first antenna to said first position and recording a third plurality of satellite signal data samples; means for calculating difference data of satellite signal data samples recorded at an auxiliary antenna and said first and third plurality of satellite signal data samples to generate first position difference data; means for calculating difference data of satellite signal data samples recorded at said auxiliary antenna and said second plurality of satellite signal data samples to generate second position difference data; and means for calculating a phase center of said first antenna based on said first and second position difference data. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said means for calculating a phase center of said first antenna based on said first and second position difference data further comprises: means for interpolating said first position difference data; and means for interpolating said second position difference data. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising: means for differencing said interpolated first position difference data and said interpolated second position difference data. 21. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said antenna is oriented substantially upwards in said first position. 22. The method of claim 18 wherein said difference data is double difference data. 