The present invention provides a micro-robot for use inside the body during minimally-invasive surgery. The micro-robot includes an imaging devices, a manipulator, and in some embodiments a sensor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot comprising: (a) a body sized to operate within a cavity of an animal; (b) a translational mobility component coupled with the body; (c) an actuator coupled with the translational mobility component; (d) a power supply coupled with the actuator; (e) a controller component coupled with the actuator; and (f) a biopsy tool coupled with the body, wherein the mobility component is configured to apply translational pressure on a surface for purposes of mobility or immobility. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the biopsy tool comprises a forceps. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein the biopsy tool comprises a grasper. 4. The robot of claim 1, wherein the biopsy tool comprises: (a) an arm coupled with the body; and (b) a forceps or grasper coupled with the arm. 5. The robot of claim 1, wherein the mobility component comprises at least one wheel. 6. The robot of claim 1, wherein the mobility component comprises a first wheel and a second wheel, wherein the first and second wheels are configured to rotate independently of each other. 7. The robot of claim 1, further comprising at least one imaging component coupled with the body. 8. The robot of claim 1, wherein the controller component is wirelessly coupled with the actuator. 9. The robot of claim 8, wherein the power supply is disposed within the body. 10. The robot of claim 1, wherein the controller component is coupled with the actuator via a flexible connection component. 11. The robot of claim 10, wherein the power supply is positioned externally of the animal. 12. The robot of claim 1, further comprising at least one sensor component coupled with the body. 13. A mobile robot comprising: (a) a body sized to operate within a cavity of an animal, the body comprising a single axle; (b) first and second mobility components coupled to the single axle, the first and second mobility components configured for translational movement; (c) at least one actuator coupled with the first and second mobility components; (d) a power supply coupled with the at least one actuator; (e) a controller component coupled with the at least one actuator; and (f) at least one biopsy tool coupled with the body. 14. The robot of claim 13, wherein the at least one motor is configured to independently propel each of the first and second mobility components, whereby the body can be steered. 15. The robot of claim 13, wherein the robot is capable of changing direction with a zero radius turn. 16. A method of performing a procedure inside an animal body, the method comprising: inserting a mobile robotic device into an orifice of the animal body, wherein the mobile robotic device comprises: (a) a body; (b) a translational mobility component coupled with the body; (c) an actuator coupled with the translational mobility component; (d) a controller component coupled with the actuator; and (e) a biopsy tool coupled with the body; positioning the robotic device into a cavity in the animal body; and operating the controller component to cause the translational mobility component to move the robotic device to a desired location within the cavity. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising performing a biopsy. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising operating the controller component to operate the biopsy tool. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the mobility component is configured to apply translational pressure on a surface for purposes of mobility or immobility. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the orifice comprises a natural orifice, the method further comprising: creating an incision in a tissue of the animal body; and inserting the device into the cavity of the animal body through the incision. 