In a first aspect, a substrate loading station is served by a conveyor which continuously transports substrate carriers. A substrate carrier handler that is part of the substrate loading station operates to exchange substrate carriers with the conveyor while the conveyor is in motion. A carrier exchange procedure may include moving an end effector of the substrate carrier handler at a velocity that substantially matches a velocity of the conveyor. Numerous other aspects are provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus adapted to supply substrates to a processing tool, comprising: a substrate carrier handler adapted to transport a substrate carrier to a first load port of the processing tool, the substrate carrier handler including an end effector adapted to support the substrate carrier; and a controller coupled to the substrate carrier handler and operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler disengages the substrate carrier from a substrate carrier conveyor while the substrate carrier is in motion and being transported by the substrate carrier conveyor, wherein the end effector contacts the substrate carrier with less than about 0.5 G of force in a vertical direction. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the controller is operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler substantially matches a motion of the substrate carrier during at least a portion of the disengagement of the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the controller is operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler substantially matches a velocity of the substrate carrier during at least a portion of the disengagement of the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the controller is operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler substantially matches a speed and position of the substrate carrier in a horizontal direction during at least a portion of the disengagement of the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is further operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector is moved so as to remain adjacent and below the substrate carrier as the substrate carrier is being transported by the substrate carrier conveyor. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the controller is further operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler is raised, while being moved in a horizontal direction, so as to disengage the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the controller is further operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector contacts the substrate carrier with at least one of a substantially zero velocity or less and a substantially zero acceleration or less in a vertical direction to disengage the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the controller is further operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector contacts the substrate carrier with substantially zero acceleration or less in a horizontal direction of travel of the substrate carrier conveyor to disengage the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the substrate carrier handler includes a vertical guide and a horizontal guide coupled to the vertical guide. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein: the substrate carrier handler includes a pair of vertical guides; the horizontal guide is mounted for vertical movement along the vertical guides; and the end effector is mounted for horizontal movement along the horizontal guide. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the substrate carrier handler is adapted to move the end effector to at least an elevation at which the substrate carrier conveyor transports substrate carriers. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first load port comprising a first docking station, and further comprising at least one other docking station vertically disposed relative to the first docking station. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising two columns of docking stations, the first docking station being included in one of the two columns of docking stations. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one sensor coupled to the controller and adapted to indicate a position of a component of the substrate carrier conveyor. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the substrate carrier is a single substrate carrier. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end effector of the substrate carrier handler includes a horizontally oriented platform having a plurality of kinematic features. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the conveyor is positioned above the substrate carrier handler. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one storage shelf adapted to store a substrate carrier; wherein the substrate carrier handler is adapted to transport a substrate carrier between the first load port and the at least one storage shelf. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the controller is further operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler transfers the substrate carrier to the substrate carrier conveyor while the substrate carrier conveyor is in motion. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the controller is operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler substantially matches a motion of the substrate carrier conveyor during at least a portion of the transfer of the substrate carrier to the substrate carrier conveyor. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the end effector contacts the substrate carrier with less than about 0.15 G of force in a vertical direction. 22. A method of transferring a substrate carrier, comprising: conveying the substrate carrier on a substrate carrier conveyor positioned adjacent a substrate loading station that includes a substrate carrier handler adapted to transport the substrate carrier to a load port of a processing tool; and employing an end effector of the substrate carrier handler of the substrate loading station to disengage the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor while the substrate carrier is in motion and being transported by the substrate carrier conveyor, wherein the end effector contacts the substrate carrier with less than about 0.5 G of force in a vertical direction. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the end effector contacts the substrate carrier with less than about 0.15 G of force in a vertical direction. 