A miniature surveillance balloon system is described that can be used in military and public safety situations for real-time observations. They are as small as feasibly possible, low-cost and expendable, and typically are deployed in clusters. Balloons may act individually or alternately clusters may act robotically (in unison) without command input at times. Video surveillance information is preprocessed and then sent via wireless communications links. Batteries and/or gas cylinders may be selectively jettisoned to facilitate vertical movement. Balloons may optionally have thruster mechanisms to facilitate lateral movement which may in some embodiments be powered by a source of combustible gas which is also used for providing lift.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A miniature surveillance balloon system comprising a gas bag, an amount of lighter-than-air gas sufficient to enable the balloon system to ascend, a valve to deflate the gas bag for descent, a source of electrical power, at least one image sensor, an electronic processor subsystem for control and image processing, a GPS sensor, an altitude sensor, a radio communications system, and also including; at least one battery that is jettisoned during flight and under control of the electronic processor subsystem to enable vertical movement of the balloon system. 2. The balloon system according to claim 1 further including lateral thrusters powered by hydrogen gas. 3. The balloon system according to claim 1 further including lateral thrusters powered by solid rocket propellant. 4. The balloon system according to claim 1 further including the capability to jettison at least one compressed gas container during flight and under control of the electronic processor subsystem. 5. The balloon system according to claim 1 wherein electrical power is supplied by a miniature fuel cell operating on hydrogen gas. 6. A miniature surveillance balloon system comprising a gas bag, an amount of lighter-than-air gas sufficient to enable the balloon system to ascend, a valve to deflate the gas bag for descent, a source of electrical power, at least one image sensor, an electronic processor subsystem for control and image processing, a GPS sensor, an altitude sensor, a radio communications system, and also including; at least one compressed gas container that is jettisoned during flight to enable vertical movement of the balloon system. 7. The balloon system according to claim 6 further including lateral thrusters powered by hydrogen gas. 8. The balloon system according to claim 6 further including lateral thrusters powered by solid rocket propellant. 9. The balloon system according to claim 6 further including the capability to jettison at least one battery during flight and under control of the electronic processor subsystem. 10. The balloon system according to claim 6 wherein electrical power is supplied by a miniature fuel cell operating on hydrogen gas. 11. A miniature surveillance balloon system comprising a gas bag, an amount of lighter-than-air gas sufficient to enable the balloon system to ascend, a valve to deflate the gas bag for descent, a source of electrical power, at least one image sensor, an electronic processor subsystem for control and image processing, a GPS sensor, an altitude sensor, a radio communications system, and also including; at least one battery that is jettisoned during flight and under control of the electronic processor subsystem to enable vertical movement of the balloon system, and; at least one compressed gas container that is jettisoned during flight and under control of the electronic processor subsystem to enable vertical movement of the balloon system. 12. The balloon system according to claim 11 further including lateral thrusters powered by hydrogen gas. 13. The balloon system according to claim 11 further including lateral thrusters powered by solid rocket propellant. 