A printer is provided having at least one printhead module which has at least two printhead integrated circuits having nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits, longitudinally extending electrical conductors arranged to provide power from a power supply to the printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector, a loading plate for loading conductor portions of the electrical connector against respective ones of the electrical conductors, and a casing in which the printhead module, the electrical conductors and the loading plate are removably mounted. The printhead module is removable from the casing upon removal of the electrical conductors and the loading plate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printer comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits; a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors arranged to provide power from a power supply to the printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector; a loading plate for loading conductor portions of the electrical connector against respective ones of the plurality of electrical conductors; and a casing in which the at least one printhead module, the plurality of electrical conductors and the loading plate are removably mounted, the at least one printhead module being removable from the casing only upon removal of the electrical conductors and the loading plate. 2. A printer according to claim 1, further comprising drive electronics removably mounted to the casing and incorporating at least one controller for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector. 3. A printer according to claim 2, wherein electrical conductors are arranged to provide power from the power supply to the drive electronics. 4. A printer according to claim 1, wherein the loading plate includes a non-conductive portion which urges the electrical connector against the plurality of electrical conductors. 5. A printer according to claim 4, wherein the non-conductive portion is formed of a resilient material. 6. A printer according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module comprises a unitary arrangement of the support member, the at least two printhead integrated circuits, at least one fluid distribution member mounting the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member, and the electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 