Bucket tip tenons requiring refurbishment are removed from the bucket tips by grinding. Groups of buckets are clamped on a rotatable table in positions adjacent an induction heating coil and a robotic welding arm, respectively. While one group is preheated, the other group of buckets is in a welding location, enabling the welding head on the robotic arm to sequentially apply weld buildup material to the bucket tips. After applying weld buildup material in multiple passes and sequentially to the bucket tips, the buckets are removed, stress-relieved and the weld buildup material machined to provide refurbished tenons. Upon removal of the buckets from the table, the table is rotated to locate the preheated buckets in welding locations and additional buckets are clamped to the table for preheating.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assembly for applying weld material to tips of turbine buckets to form one or more tenons on said bucket tips, comprising: a fixture having clamps for releasably securing first and second groups of buckets at predetermined discrete positions on said fixture; an induction coil for preheating said groups of buckets; a welding head for applying weld material to the tips of the buckets; said fixture being movable between first and second positions, said fixture in said first position thereof locating said first group of buckets adjacent said weld head enabling weld material to be applied to the tips of the buckets of said first group, and said second group of buckets adjacent the induction coil for simultaneous preheating the bucket tips of said second group; said fixture in said second position locating said second group of buckets adjacent said welding head, enabling weld material to be applied to the tips of the buckets of said second group thereof. 2. An assembly according to claim 1 including a robot carrying said welding head and programmed to locate the welding head in positions to apply weld material sequentially to the bucket tips of said groups of buckets. 3. An assembly according to claim 1 including a temperature sensor for sensing the temperature of the preheated buckets and coupled to said robot to enable application of weld material to the bucket tips only upon sensing a temperature in a predetermined range of temperatures. 4. An assembly according to claim 1 wherein said clamps are arranged in two groups of four on opposite sides of said fixture. 5. An assembly according to claim 1 wherein said fixture is rotatable bout a central vertical axis. 6. An assembly according to claim 1 wherein each clamp is provided with a handle by which the clamp can be manually positioned to clamp the buckets in said positions. 7. An assembly for applying weld material to tips of turbine buckets to form one or more tenons on said bucket tips, comprising: a fixture having clamps for releasably securing first and second groups of buckets at predetermined discrete positions on said fixture; an induction coil for preheating said groups of buckets; a welding head for applying weld material to the tips of the buckets; said fixture being movable between first and second positions, said fixture in said first position thereof locating said first group of buckets adjacent said weld head enabling weld material to be applied to the tips of the buckets of said first group, and said second group of buckets adjacent the induction coil for simultaneous preheating the bucket tips of said second group; said fixture in said second position locating said second group of buckets adjacent said welding head, enabling weld material to be applied to the tips of the buckets of said second group thereof; and including a robot carrying said welding head and programmed to locate the welding head in positions to apply weld material sequentially to the bucket tips of said groups of buckets. 