Apparatus for producing a semi-solid metal alloy from a molten charge includes vertically aligned treatment zones which are provided by vertically aligned passages defined by a plurality of spirally wound flow pipes which are interspersed between spirally wound induction coils. A container is mounted on a charging arrangement which displaces a first charge upwardly into the first treatment zone. Successive charges are introduced in a similar fashion thereby urging the previously introduced charge upwardly along the train of zones and until the leading charge is ejected from the top of the apparatus. The charge in each zone is subjected to controlled cooling and an induced electromagnetic field. The strength of the field and the rate of cooling are controlled to impede dendritic crystallisation and to promote globular primary crystal formation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for producing a semi-solid metal alloy from a molten charge of said alloy, the apparatus including: a treatment zone into which a charging container is receivable; charge cooling means for cooling the charge when the container is positioned in the treatment zone; electromagnetic force field inducing means for inducing an electromagnetic force field in the charge when positioned in the treatment zone, said electromagnetic field inducing means being in the form of an AC induction coil to which a current of 100 to 12000 amps is supplied at a frequency of 60 to 30000 Hz, in use, thereby to induce a force field of sufficient intensity to promote primary globular crystal formation instead of dendritic crystal formation during cooling; and a charging arrangement having supporting means for supporting the charging container in a starting position which is in alignment with the treatment zone and displacement means for displacing the charging container from the starting position along a linear path into the treatment zone, said treatment zone being configured to allow the charging container to be displaced from the treatment zone after treatment by the urging of a subsequent charging container into the treatment zone along said linear path. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which the charge cooling means and electromagnetic field inducing means are arranged to provide a longitudinally extending open-ended passage which defines the treatment zone and into which the charging containers are received. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, in which the passage extends vertically. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 3, which includes a supporting arrangement for supporting the charging container in the treatment zone, said supporting arrangement being configured to, simultaneously with the introduction of a subsequent charging container, release said charging container to allow the charging container to be supported by the subsequent charging container and to permit displacement of said charging container from the treatment zone on advancement of the subsequent charging container into the treatment zone. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 4, in which the supporting arrangement includes a retaining element which is mounted for displacement between a retracted position, in which the element is clear of the treatment zone, and an extended position, in which it extends into the treatment zone and supports the charging container positioned in the treatment zone. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, in which the retaining element is provided with an engagement formation which engages with a complementary engagement formation when the retaining element is in the extended position. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, which includes at least one further treatment zone having electromagnetic field inducing means and charge cooling means which are arranged to provide a further longitudinally extending passage which is adjacent to and aligned with the passage of the treatment zone. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which the supporting means includes a charge support on which the charging container is supported in use, and releasable gripping means for releasably gripping the support. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which the charge cooling means includes a plurality of independently operable tube sections which follow a helical path and which are positioned between adjacent turns of the induction coil. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9, in which the tube sections are secured to the adjacent turns of the induction coil. 