A repetitive motion therapy apparatus has a frame structure. An orthotic is adapted for securing to a part of a body. A pneumatic muscle is coupled between the frame structure and the orthotic for moving the orthotic. A control mechanism controls the pneumatic muscle. The pneumatic muscle contracts to impart movement to the orthotic. A winding spool and retractable cord is attached to the pneumatic muscle. The pneumatic muscle is operated by an electric mechanism, hydraulic mechanism, or spring mechanism to impart movement to the orthotic. The control mechanism has a variable airflow controller to control the movement of the orthotic. A feedback sensor is disposed on the body for providing data to the control mechanism. A treadmill imparts motion to the part of the body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for repetitive motion therapy, comprising: a frame structure; an orthotic adapted for securing to a part of a body; an adjustable linkage coupled between the frame structure and the orthotic, wherein the adjustable linkage includes a pneumatic muscle for moving the orthotic; and a control mechanism for controlling the adjustable linkage. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the pneumatic muscle contracts to impart movement to the orthotic. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a winding spool and retractable cord attached to the pneumatic muscle. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the adjustable linkage comprises a spring mechanism to impart movement to the orthotic. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the adjustable linkage further includes an electric mechanism to impart movement to the orthotic. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the electric mechanism further includes an electric motor to impart movement to the orthotic. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the adjustable linkage further includes a hydraulic mechanism to impart movement to the orthotic. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the hydraulic mechanism further includes a hydraulic actuator to impart movement to the adjustable linkage. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a treadmill to impart motion to the part of the body. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a bed frame that is adapted for securing to the frame structure. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the orthotic includes: a covering for connecting to the adjustable linkage; a strap coupled between the covering and the part of the body; and a layer of padding disposed over a surface of the covering. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the orthotic is adapted for securing to a leg of the body. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the control mechanism further includes a variable airflow controller to control the movement of the orthotic. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the control mechanism receives and synthesizes data from a feedback sensor disposed on the body. 15. A method for providing repetitive motion therapy, comprising: securing an orthotic to a portion of a body, wherein the orthotic is attached to an adjustable linkage; actuating the adjustable linkage by way of a pneumatic muscle to cause repetitive motion of the orthotic which imparts corresponding movement to the portion of the body; securing the pneumatic muscle to a winding spool and retractable cord; and actuating the winding spool and retractable cord. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein actuating the adjustable linkage further includes using a control mechanism to control the adjustable linkage. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein actuating the adjustable linkage includes using a spring mechanism to impart movement to the orthotic. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein actuating the adjustable linkage includes using an electric mechanism to impart movement to the orthotic. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein using an electric mechanism further includes: using an electric motor connected to the adjustable linkage; and actuating the electric motor to impart movement to the adjustable linkage. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein actuating the adjustable linkage includes using a hydraulic mechanism to impart movement to the adjustable linkage. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein using a hydraulic mechanism further includes actuating a hydraulic mechanism to impart movement to the orthotic. 22. The method of claim 15, further including coupling the frame structure to a treadmill to impart motion to the part of the body. 23. The method of claim 15, further including adapting and securing the frame structure to a bed frame. 24. The method of claim 15, further including constructing an orthotic thatincludes a layer of padding, a strap and a covering. 25. The method of claim 15, further including adapting the orthotic for securing to a leg of the body. 26. The method of claim 15, further including controlling the apparatus using a variable airflow controller for controlling movement in the adjustable linkage. 27. The method of claim 15, further including receiving and synthesizing data from a feedback sensor disposed on the body. 28. A method of making a therapy apparatus, comprising: providing a frame assembly; providing an orthotic adapted for securing to a portion of a body; and providing an adjustable linkage for coupling between the frame assembly and the orthotic such that the adjustable linkage causes repetitive motion of the orthotic which imparts corresponding movement of the portion of the body, the adjustable linkage, including a pneumatic muscle secured to a winding spool and retractable cord. 29. The method of claim 28, further including providing a control mechanism for controlling the adjustable linkages. 30. The method of claim 28, wherein providing an adjustable linkage includes providing a spring mechanism to impart movement to the orthotic. 31. The method of claim 28, wherein providing the adjustable linkage includes providing an electric mechanism to impart movement to the orthotic. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein providing an electric mechanism further includes providing an electric motor to impart movement to the adjustable linkage. 33. The method of claim 28, wherein providing an adjustable linkage further includes providing a hydraulic mechanism that imparts movement to the adjustable linkage. 34. The method of claim 28, further including providing a treadmill in order to impart motion to the part of the body. 35. The method of claim 28, further including providing means for the frame structure to secure to a bed frame. 36. The method of claim 28, further including providing an orthotic that is constructed of a layer of padding, a strap and a covering. 37. The method of claim 28, wherein providing an orthotic further includes providing an orthotic which is adapted for securing to a leg of the body. 38. The method of claim 28, further including providing a control mechanism for controlling the apparatus using a variable airflow controller. 39. The method of claim 28, further including providing means to receive and synthesize data from a feedback sensor disposed on the body. 40. A repetitive motion therapy apparatus, comprising: a frame structure; an orthotic adapted for securing to a part of a body; a pneumatic muscle coupled between the frame structure and orthotic for moving the orthotic; and a control mechanism for controlling the pneumatic muscle. 41. The repetitive motion therapy apparatus of claim 40, wherein the pneumatic muscle contracts to impart movement to the orthotic. 42. The repetitive motion therapy apparatus of claim 40, further including a winding spool and retractable cord attached to the pneumatic muscle. 43. The repetitive motion therapy apparatus of claim 40, wherein the pneumatic muscle is operated by an electric mechanism, hydraulic mechanism, or spring mechanism to impart movement to the orthotic. 44. The repetitive motion therapy apparatus of claim 40, wherein the control mechanism further includes a variable airflow controller to control the movement of the orthotic. 45. The repetitivemotion therapy apparatus of claim 40, further including a feedback sensor disposed on the body for providing data to the control mechanism. 46. A method of making a therapy apparatus, comprising: providing a frame assembly; providing an orthotic adapted for securing to a portion of a body; and providing a pneumatic muscle coupled between the frame assembly and orthotic such that the pneumatic muscle causes repetitive motion of the orthotic which imparts corresponding movement of the portion of the body. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein the pneumatic muscle uses an electrical mechanism, hydraulic mechanism, or spring mechanism to impart movement to the orthotic. 48. The method of claim 46, further including providing a control mechanism for controlling the apparatus using a variable airflow controller. 49. The method of claim 46, further including synthesizing data from a feedback sensor disposed on the body. 