Devices and methods for performing assays on materials, particularly biological materials, are provided. The devices and methods make use of self-sealing members, which can be applied to a flat surface to form wells to facilitate immobilization of materials on the flat surface, then removed to yield a flat surface that facilitates the performance of processes on and/or detection of the immobilized material.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for performing at least one bulk process step on a biological material comprising: a) chemically treating a base plate to enhance immobilization of kinase substrates thereon with a solution of mixed self-assembled monolayer (SAM) comprising about 0.1 to 20% maleimide-terminal groups in a background of tri(ethylene glycol) terminal groups; b) placing a first removable member on the base plate for establishing self-sealing contact of the first removable member on the base plate, the first removable member being adapted to repeatedly self-seal on the base plate, the first removable member further defining a plurality of first orifices therein, each having a plurality of first walls bounding respective ones of the plurality of first orifices, the first removable member further being configured such that, when placed in self-sealing contact with the base plate, the first removable member defines a plurality of first wells therewith corresponding to respective ones of the plurality of first orifices; c) immobilizing a biological material on a plurality of first regions of the base plate exposed by the plurality of first orifices; d) removing the first removable member from the base plate such that the biological material is arrayed on the base plate in an array that corresponds to the plurality of first orifices; and e) performing at least one bulk process step on the entire array of biological material on the base plate simultaneously. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step e) comprises washing the array of biological material on the base plate. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein step e) comprises incubating the array of biological material on the base plate with a reagent. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step e) comprises fixing the array of biological material on the base plate. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein step e) comprises developing the array of biological material. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising before step e): modifying the biological material. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: f) placing a second removable member on the base plate for establishing self-sealing contact of the second removable member on the base plate, the second removable member being adapted to repeatedly self-seal on the base plate, the second removable member further defining a plurality of second orifices therein, each having a plurality of second walls bounding respective ones of the plurality of second orifices, the second removable member further being configured such that, when placed in self-sealing contact with the base plate, the second removable member defines a plurality of second wells therewith, the second wells being arrayed such that at least a portion of the first regions of biological material on the base plate are within respective ones of the plurality of second wells. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: g) performing at least one bulk process step on the regions of biological material revealed by the second wells. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: performing step e) before step d). 10. The method of claim 1, wherein step e) comprises exposing the array of biological material to at least one of a biomolecule or a reagent. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein step e) includes at least one of washing the array of biological material, fixing the array of biological material and developing the array of biological material. 12. The method of claim 8, further comprising: performing step e) before step d). 13. The method of claim 12, wherein step g) comprises exposing the array of biological material to at least one of a biomolecule, a reagent, an enzyme or an antibody. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein step g) includes at least one of washing the array of biological material, fixing the array of biological material and developing the array of biological material. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing step f) before step e); and performing step e) before step d). 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing step e) before step b). 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing step e) before step d); and h) measuring a change in the immobilized biological material resulting from step e). 18. The method of claim 8, further comprising: performing step e) before step d); and h) measuring a change in the immobilized biological material resulting from step e) and step g). 19. The method of claim 1, wherein step a) comprises a solution of mixed self-assembled monolayer (SAM), such that binding of kinase substrates is enhanced in discrete areas and reduced or eliminated in others. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein specific binding of kinase substrates in desired orientations is enhanced and non-specific binding of kinase substrates is reduced or eliminated. 21. The method of claim 8, further comprising: i) removing the second removable member. 22. The method of claim 7, wherein the plurality of second orifices are configured such that each second region on the base plate exposed by a respective one of the second plurality of orifices is smaller than each first region on the base plate exposed by a respective one of the first plurality of orifices. 23. The method of claim 7, wherein the plurality of second orifices are configured such that each second region on the base plate exposed by a respective one of the second plurality of orifices is larger than each first region on the base plate exposed by a respective one of the first plurality of orifices. 24. The method of claim 10, wherein the biomolecule comprises an enzyme or an antibody. 