The present invention relates to novel sequences for use in detection, diagnosis and treatment of cancers, especially lymphomas. The invention provides cancer-associated (CA) polynucleotide sequences whose expression is associated with cancer. The present invention provides CA polypeptides associated with cancer that are present on the cell surface and present novel therapeutic targets against cancer. The present invention further provides diagnostic compositions and methods for the detection of cancer. The present invention provides monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies specific for the CA polypeptides. The present invention also provides diagnostic tools and therapeutic compositions and methods for screening, prevention and treatment of cancer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting prostate or breast cancer associated with expression of a polypeptide in a test prostate or breast sample, comprising: (i) detecting a level of expression of a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO:12, or a fragment thereof, in the test sample; and (ii) comparing the level of expression of the polypeptide in the test sample with a level of expression of polyneptide in a normal prostate or breast sample, wherein an increase of at least 50% in the level of expression of the polypeptide in the test sample compared to the level of polypeptide expression in the normal sample is indicative of the presence of prostate or breast cancer in the test sample. 2. A method for detecting prostate or breast cancer in a sample, comprising: (i) detecting a level of activity of a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO:12, or a fragment thereof, in the sample, wherein said activity is a growth factor activity; and (ii) comparing the level of activity of the polypeptide in the sample with a level of activity of the polypeptide in a normal, prostate or breast sample, wherein an increase in the level of activity of the polypeptide in test sample relative to the level of polypeptide activity in the normal sample is indicative of the presence of prostate or breast cancer in the sample. 3. An method for diagnosing prostate or breast cancer comprising: a) determining a level of a nucleic acid comprising SEQ ID NO:10, in a patient sample cornpnsmg prostate or breast tissue; and b) comparing the level of the nucleic acid in a) to a level of the nucleic acid in a control; wherein an increase of at least 50% from the level of the nucleic acid in the patient samrde compared to the level of the nucleic acid in the control indicates that the patient has prostate or breast cancer. 4. A method for diagnosing prostate or breast cancer comprising detecting evidence of differential expression of Transforming Growth Factor Beta 2 (TGF.beta.2) in a patient sample, wherein evidence of differential expression is detected by measuring the level of a mRNA having a sequence of SEQ ID NO:11, or a full complement thereof, wherein evidence of differential expression of TGF.beta.2 indicates that the patient has prostate or breast cancer. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein TGF.beta.2 gene expression in the patient sample is up-regulated relative to TGF.beta.2 gene expression in normal tissue. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the level of expression product in the patient sample is compared to a control. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the control is a known normal tissue of the same tissue type as in the patient sample. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the level of the expression product in the sample is increased at least 50% relative to the control. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein the level of the expression product in the sample is increased at least 100% relative to the control. 10. The method of claim 6 wherein the level of the expression product in the sample is increased at least 150% relative to the control. 11. A method of diagnosing prostate or breast cancer comprising: a) determining the level of a nucleic acid comprising a nucleotide sequence having at least 98% sequence identity to a sequence of SEQ ID NO:11, or a full complement thereof, in a patient prostate or breast sample; and b) comparing said level of the nucleic acid in (a) to a level of the expression product in a second sample, said second sample comprising a normal prostate or breast tissue, wherein an increase of at least 50% from the level of the nucleic acid in (a) compared to the level of the nucleic acid in the second sample indicates that the patient has prostate or breast cancer. 