An apparatus for loading an object into a vehicle, the vehicle having a trunk lid, the apparatus comprising: a line; an actuator adapted for applying a tensile force to the line in response to an actuator command, and disposed and adapted for transmitting at least a portion of the tensile force to the trunk lid; an end-effector mechanically coupled to the line and adapted for transmitting the tensile force and an operator force to the object and for generating an operator force measurement; and a controller adapted for generating the actuator command from the operator force measurement.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for loading an object into a vehicle, said vehicle having a trunk lid, said apparatus comprising: a line; an actuator coupled to said vehicle and adapted for applying a tensile force to said line in response to an actuator command, and disposed and adapted for transmitting at least a portion of said tensile force to said trunk lid; a holding system adapted for holding said trunk lid in an open position against said at least a portion of said tensile force when said trunk lid reaches said open position; an end-effector mechanically coupled to said line and adapted for transmitting said tensile force and an operator force to said object and for generating an operator force measurement; and a controller adapted for generating said actuator command from said operator force measurement wherein said end-effector automatically moves upwardly when said operator is not imposing any downward vertical force on said end-effector and said end-effector moves as a function of said operator force measurement when said operator is imposing a downward vertical force on said end-effector. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said line comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of rope, wire, cable, belts, synthetic rope, fabric rope, plastic rope, wire rope, cord, twine, chain, bicycle-type chain, and string. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said line comprises a multi-strand rope having a maximum strength greater than 300 pounds. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said end-effector is adapted for wirelessly transmitting said operator force measurement to controller. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said actuator comprises: a motor adapted for generating a motor torque in response to said actuator command; and a take-up pulley adapted for receiving said motor torque and applying a tensile force to said line. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said motor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of electric motors, hydraulic motors, and pneumatic motors. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said take-up pulley comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of drums, winches, single-groove pulleys, and multi-groove pulleys. 8. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a transmission mechanically coupled between said motor and said take-up pulley. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said transmission comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of gear trains, worm gears, bevel gears, planetary gears, pulleys, lines, belts, toothed belts, toothed pulleys, and harmonic drives. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said actuator further comprises a lower limit sensor adapted for generating a lower limit signal when said end-effector reaches a prescribed lower limit position, said controller being father adapted for generating said actuator command from said lower limit signal. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said lower limit sensor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of switches and sensors or pick-ups capable of sensing the proximity of said line by magnetic, electrical, or optical means or combinations thereof. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said lower limit sensor comprises a limit switch. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said actuator further comprises a slack sensor adapted for generating a slack signal when said line becomes slack and, optionally, for redirecting line, said controller being further adapted for generating said actuator command from said slack signal. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said slack sensor further comprises: a base block; an upper assembly rotatably coupled to said base block and adapted for rotating with respect to said base block as a function of line tension in said line; a line guide rotatably coupled to said upper assembly and adapted for redirecting line; a bias spring mechanically coupled between said upper assembly and said base block and adapted for exerting a bias force on said upper assembly; and a load sensor adapted for generating said slack signal when said line tension is insufficient to overcome said bias force. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said load sensor is mechanically coupled to said upper assembly. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said load sensor is mechanically coupled to said base block. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said load sensor comprises a limit switch. 18. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said load sensor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of switches and sensors or pick-ups capable of sensing the proximity of upper assembly to base block by magnetic, electrical, or optical means or combinations thereof. 19. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said line guide comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of pulleys, sprockets, dowels, sleeves, and channels. 20. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said actuator further comprises an upper limit sensor adapted for generating an upper limit signal when said end-effector reaches a prescribed upper limit position, said controller being further adapted for generating said actuator command from said upper limit signal. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said upper limit sensor further comprises: an upper limit marker mechanically coupled to said line; and a marker detector adapted for generating said upper limit signal when said upper limit marker reaches said prescribed upper limit position. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said upper limit marker comprises a rubber object. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said marker detector comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of switches and sensors or pick-ups capable of sensing the proximity of said upper limit marker by magnetic, electrical, or optical means or combinations thereof. 24. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said marker detector comprises: an upper limit bracket, said line passing through an opening in said upper limit bracket, said opening being shaped to prevent passage therethrough of said upper limit marker; and a contact sensor adapted for generating said upper limit signal as a function of a contact force between said upper limit marker and said upper limit bracket. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein: said marker detector further comprises a base block, said upper limit bracket being rotatably coupled to said base block; and said contact sensor comprises a limit switch adapted for generating said upper limit signal when said contact force causes sufficient rotation of said upper limit bracket with respect to said base block. 26. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said end-effector comprises: an end-effector frame mechanically coupled to said line; a cargo interface mechanically coupled to said end-effector frame and adapted for transmitting said tensile force to said object; an operator force sensor mechanically coupled to said end-effector frame and adapted for generating said operator force measurement; and a handle mechanically coupled to said operator force sensor and adapted for transmitting said operator force to said operator force sensor. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said cargo interface comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of hooks, suction cups, magnets, and grippers. 28. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said operator force sensor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of piezoelectric force sensors, metallic strain gage force sensors, semiconductor strain gage force sensors, Wheatstone bridge-deposited strain gage force sensors, and force sensing resistors. 29. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein a longitudinal axis of said handle does not pass through said cargo interface. 30. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said operator force sensor comprises: a compliant element disposed between said handle and said end-effector frame; and a handle displacement sensor adapted for sensing a deformation of said compliant element, said operator force measurement being a function of said deformation. 31. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said compliant element comprises at least one compression spring. 32. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said handle displacement sensor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of linear potentiometers, magnetic linear encoders, optical linear encoders, linear variable differential transformers, capacitive displacement sensors, eddy current proximity sensors, variable-inductance proximity sensor, and rocker switches. 33. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein: said end-effector frame comprises a spline shaft; and said handle comprises a ball nut adapted for coupling said spline shaft. 34. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said handle further comprises a handle switch adapted for generating a handle switch signal when said handle is grasped, said controller being further adapted for holding said actuator stationary when said handle switch is not grasped. 35. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said controller comprises: a signal processor adapted for generating an amplifier command signal from said operator force measurement; and a power system adapted for generating said actuator command from said amplifier command signal. 36. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein signal processor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of analog devices; analog computation modules; digital devices including, without limitation, small-, medium-, and large-scale integrated circuits, application specific integrated circuits, programmable gate arrays, and programmable logic arrays; and digital computation modules including, without limitation, microcomputers, microprocessors, microcontrollers, and programmable logic controllers. 37. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein signal processor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of electromechanical relays or MOSFET switches. 38. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein signal processor generates amplifier command signal from any signal or combination of signals generated by upper limit sensor, lower limit sensor, slack sensor and operator force sensor. 39. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein said power system comprises a power amplifier to generate said actuator command from said amplifier command signal. 40. The apparatus of claim 39 wherein said power amplifier is a PWM type amplifier. 41. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein said power system comprises an input filter adapted for filtering a raw supply voltage to produce a filtered supply voltage. 42. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein said raw supply voltage is provided from a vehicle battery. 43. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein said raw supply voltage is about 12 volts. 44. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein said raw supply voltage is greater than 12 volts. 45. The apparatus of claim 10 where said controller implements a method wherein said end-effector is stopped when said lower limit sensor is activated and said operator force measurement generated by said operator force sensor does not indicate an operator intention for raising said end-effector. 46. The apparatus of claim 20 where said controller implements a method wherein said end-effector is stopped when upper limit sensor is activated and the operator force measurement generated by operator force sensor does not indicate an operator intention for lowering end-effector. 47. The apparatus of claim 13 where controller implements a method wherein said end-effector is stopped when slack sensor is activated and the operator force measurement generated by operator force sensor does not indicate an operator intention for raising end-effector. 48. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein said power system comprises a voltage regulator adapted for generating a regulated voltage. 49. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said holding system comprises a locking bracket; and a locking mechanism adapted for receiving and holding said locking bracket when said trunk lid moves to said open position. 50. The apparatus of claim 49 wherein said locking bracket is mechanically coupled to said trunk lid and said locking mechanism is mechanically coupled to said vehicle. 51. The apparatus of claim 49 wherein said locking mechanism is mechanically coupled to said trunk lid and said locking bracket is mechanically coupled to said vehicle. 52. The apparatus of claim 49 wherein said locking bracket comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of pins, dowel pins, cylindrical rods, metallic brackets, and combinations thereof. 53. The apparatus of claim 49 further comprising a release actuator to release said locking bracket in response to a release actuator signal enabling said trunk lid to move out of said open position. 54. The apparatus of claim 53 wherein said release actuator comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of solenoids, linear motors, rotary motors, and combinations thereof. 55. The apparatus of claim 53 further comprising an operator release device which issues an operator release signal when activated by the operator. 56. The apparatus of claim 55 wherein said operator release device comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of push buttons, pull buttons, switches, levers, pull handles, buttons, keys, knobs and switches. 57. The apparatus of claim 55 wherein said release actuator releases said locking bracket enabling said trunk lid to move out of said open position when said operator release device is activated. 58. The apparatus of claim 55 wherein said release actuator releases said locking bracket enabling said trunk lid to move out of said open position when said operator release device is activated and there is no object an said end-effector. 59. The apparatus of claim 55 wherein said release actuator releases said locking bracket enabling said trunk lid to move out of said open position when said operator release device is activated and there is no object on said end-effector and said end-effector has reached its said upper limit position. 60. The apparatus of claim 49 wherein said locking mechanism comprises: a first link rotatably coupled to said vehicle and adapted for holding and releasing said locking pin; a second link rotatably coupled to said vehicle and adapted for sliding against said first link; a linkage spring adapted for developing a bias force between said first link and said second link; a linkage stop mechanically coupled to said vehicle and adapted for preventing rotation of said second link when said second link is in a locked position; and a release member adapted for applying a release torque to said second link. 61. The apparatus of claim 49 further comprising a pull handle adapted for coupling an operator release force to said locking mechanism. 62. The apparatus of claim 61 further comprising: a release stopper mechanically coupled to said locking mechanism; and an interlock solenoid adapted for preventing motion of said release stopper in response to an interlock solenoid command. 63. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a mounting frame mechanically coupled to said trunk lid for transmitting at least a portion of the tensile force in said line to trunk lid. 64. The apparatus of claim 63 wherein said mounting frame comprises: an upper mounting frame; and a lower mounting frame mechanically coupled to said upper mounting frame. 65. The apparatus of claim 63 wherein said mounting frame comprises at least one motion guide adapted for guiding the motion of said mounting frame with respect to said trunk lid. 66. The apparatus of claim 65 wherein said motion guide comprises a rod bearing. 67. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said actuator comprises a line routing system adapted for routing said line. 68. The apparatus of claim 67 wherein said line routing system comprises a routing pulley. 69. A method for loading an object into a vehicle, said vehicle having a trunk lid, said method comprising the acts of: holding said trunk lid in an open position against said at least a portion of said tensile force when said trunk lid reaches an open position; applying a tensile force to a line by use of an actuator coupled to said vehicle in response to an actuator command; transmitting at least a portion of a tensile force to said trunk lid; transmitting said tensile force and an operator force to said object using an end-effector; generating an operator force measurement; generating said actuator command from said operator force measurement; moving said end-effector as a function of said operator force measurement when said operator is imposing a downward vertical force on said end-effector; and automatically moving said end-effector upwardly when said operator is not imposing any downward vertical force on said end-effector. 70. The method of claim 69 wherein said act of applying a tensile force to said line further comprises the acts of: generating a motor torque in response to said actuator command; applying said motor torque to a take-up pulley; and applying a tensile force to said line using said take-up pulley. 71. The method of claim 69 wherein said act of applying a tensile force to said line further comprises the acts of: generating a lower limit signal when said end-effector reaches a prescribed lower limit position; and generating said actuator command from said lower limit signal. 72. The method of claim 69 wherein said act of applying a tensile force to said line further comprises the acts of: generating a slack signal when said line becomes slack; and optionally, redirecting said line. 73. The method of claim 69 wherein said act of applying a tensile force to said line further comprises generating an upper limit signal when an upper limit marker reaches a prescribed upper limit position. 74. The method of claim 69 wherein said act of generating an operator force measurement comprises sensing a deformation of a compliant element, said operator force measurement being a function of said deformation. 75. The method of claim 69 wherein said act of transmitting said tensile force and an operator force to said object further comprises generating a handle switch signal when a handle is grasped. 76. The method of claim 69 wherein said act of generating said actuator command comprises the acts of: generating an amplifier command signal from said operator force measurement; and generating said actuator command from said amplifier command signal. 77. The method of claim 76 wherein said act of generating said actuator command from said amplifier command signal comprises the acts of: filtering a raw supply voltage to produce a filtered supply voltage; generating a regulated voltage from said filtered supply voltage; and generating said actuator command from said amplifier command signal and said filtered supply voltage. 78. An apparatus for loading an object into a vehicle, said vehicle having a trunk lid, said apparatus comprising: an actuator coupled to said vehicle and adapted for applying a force to an end-effector in response to an actuator command, and disposed and adapted for transmitting at least a portion of said force to said trunk lid; said end-effector mechanically coupled to said actuator and adapted for transmitting said force and an operator force to said object and for generating an operator force measurement; a holding system holding said trunk lid in an open position against said at least a portion of said tensile force when said trunk lid reaches said open position; and a controller adapted for generating said actuator command from said operator force measurement wherein said end-effector automatically moves upwardly when said operator is not imposing any downward vertical force on said end-effector and moves as a function of said operator force measurement when said operator is imposing a downward vertical force on said end-effector. 79. The apparatus of claim 78 wherein said actuator comprises: a motor adapted for generating a motor torque in response to said actuator command; and a take-up pulley adapted for receiving said motor torque and applying a tensile force to a line; said line rapped around said pulley and connectable to said end-effectors. 80. The apparatus of claim 78 wherein said actuator comprises a mechanism adapted for receiving said motor torque and applying a force to said end-effector. 81. A vehicle, among other components, comprising: a trunk lid rotatably coupled to said vehicle and having an open position where inside said vehicle trunk can be accessed; a line movably coupled to said trunk lid; an actuator coupled to said vehicle and adapted for applying a tensile force to said line in response to an actuator command; a holding system wherein said holding system holds said trunk lid in an open position against said at least a portion of said tensile force when said trunk lid reaches said open position; an end-effector coupled to said line and adapted for transmitting said tensile force and an operator force to an object and for generating an operator force measurement; and a controller adapted for generating said actuator command from said operator force measurement wherein said end-effector automatically moves upwardly when said operator is not imposing any downward vertical force on said end-effector and said end-effector moves as a function of said operator force measurement when said operator is imposing a downward vertical force on said end-effector. 82. A vehicle, among other components, comprising: a trunk lid rotatably coupled to said vehicle and having an open position where inside said vehicle trunk can be accessed; a line movably coupled to said trunk lid and connectable to an object through an end-effector; an actuator coupled to said vehicle and adapted for applying a tensile force on said line; a holding system adapted for holding said trunk lid in an open position against said at least a portion of said tensile force when said trunk lid reaches said open position; wherein said actuator moves said line thereby lowering and lifting said object; and wherein said end-effector automatically moves upwardly when said operator is not imposing any downward vertical force on said end-effector and said end-effector moves as a function of said operator force measurement when said operator is imposing a downward vertical force on said end-effector. 83. A vehicle, among other components, comprising: a trunk lid coupled to said vehicle and having an open position where inside said vehicle trunk can be accessed; an end-effector movably coupled to said trunk lid and connectable to an object wherein said end-effector includes a handle to be held by an operator and generates an operator force measurement; an actuator coupled to said vehicle and adapted to move said end-effector; a controller controlling the operation of said actuator; and a holding system wherein said holding system holds said trunk lid in an open position against said at least a portion of said tensile force when said trunk lid reaches said open position; wherein when said trunk lid is held in said open position said controller controls said actuator such that said end-effector automatically moves upwardly when said operator is not imposing any downward vertical force on said end-effector and said end-effector moves as a function of said operator force measurement when said operator is imposing a downward vertical force on said end-effector. 84. An object handling device for loading an object into the trunk of a vehicle, comprising: a line movably coupled to said vehicle trunk lid and connectable to an object through an end-effector; an actuator configurable to be coupled to said vehicle and adapted for applying a tensile force on said line; and a holding system wherein said holding system holds said trunk lid in an open position against said at least a portion of said tensile force when said trunk lid reaches said open position; wherein said actuator moves said line thereby lowering and lifting said object such that said end-effector automatically moves upwardly when said operator is not imposing any downward vertical three on said end-effector and said end-effector moves as a function of said operator force measurement when said operator is imposing a downward vertical force on said end-effector. 85. An object handling device for loading an object into the trunk of a vehicle, comprising: an end-effector movably coupled to said vehicle trunk lid and connectable to an object wherein said end-effector includes a handle to be held by an operator and generates an operator force measurement; an actuator configurable to be coupled to said vehicle and adapted to move said end-effector; a controller controlling the operation of said actuator; and a holding system wherein said holding system holds said trunk lid in an open position against said at least a portion of said tensile force when said trunk lid reaches said open position; wherein when said trunk lid is held in an open position said controller controls said actuator to lift and lower said object as a function of said operator force measurement such that said end-effector automatically moves upwardly when said operator is not imposing any downward vertical force on said end-effector and said end-effector moves as a function of said operator force measurement when said operator is imposing a downward vertical force on said end-effector. 86. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a release actuator enabling said trunk lid to move out of said open position. 87. The vehicle of claim 82 further comprising a release actuator enabling said trunk lid to move out of said open position. 88. The vehicle of claim 83 further comprising a release actuator enabling said trunk lid to move out of said open position. 89. The object handling device of claim 84 further comprising a release actuator enabling said trunk lid to move out of said open position. 90. The object handling device of claim 85 further comprising a release actuator enabling said trunk lid to move out of said open position. 