A rotary walking device having multiple sequential ground engaging elongated struts interconnected between pairs of annular drive disks. Each pair of drive disks having multiple pivot attachment points for the respective opposing apertured ends of each strut. Each strut having angularly offset parallel engagement ends which engage with spaced co-parallel drive disks affording a unique rotational linear travel path that allows each of the struts to sequentially engage the ground and propel the assembly forward in a progressive walking like motion when used in combination with corresponding second strut drive assembly.
Claims Therefore I claim: 1. An all terrain walking assembly for robotic platforms comprises, a plurality of elongated ground engagement struts having oppositely disposed angularly offset apertured end attachment portions pivotally secured between drive wheel and support disks, said ground engagement struts in aligned orientation to the directionality of the travel path, each said apertured end attachment portion having an annularly spaced strut pivot pin extending therefrom to a perimeter edge of a respective one of said drive and support disks said drive and support disks having multiple annularly spaced ground engagement points thereon between respective strut engagement pins and multiple pairs of spaced opposing parallel perimeter edge surfaces in non-contact relation to said ground surface. 2. The walking assembly set forth in claim 1 wherein said angular offset attachment portions extend from opposing surfaces of said struts. 3. The walking assembly set forth in claim 1 wherein said struts are pivotally secured from oppositely disposed surfaces of said respective drive and support disks. 4. The walking assembly set forth in claim 1 wherein said drive and support disks are in angularly spaced co-parallel relation to one another in angular offset relation to the directionality of the travel path. 5. The walking assembly set forth in claim 1 wherein said drive and support disks are in spaced angularly disposed relation to the longitudinal axis of said respective interconnecting struts. 