A digital image processing-based system and method for quantitatively processing a plurality of nucleic acid species expressed in a microarray are disclosed. The microarray is a grid of a plurality of sub-grids of the nucleic acid species. The system includes a scanner that has a digital scanning sensor that scans the microarray and transmits from an output a digital image of the microarray, and a computer that receives the digital image of the microarray from the scanner and then processes the digital image, identifying each of the microarray's sub-grids. The computer identifies the position of each of the sub-grids by (a) identifying regions in the digital image that each contains one of the sub-grids, (b) identifying rows and columns in each region where nucleic acid species are expressed to form a set of candidate sub-grids in each region, (c) selecting for each region a probable sub-grid from the set of candidate sub-grids in each region, and (d) comparing the positions of the probable sub-grids from each region to finalize the sub-grid positions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for assessing chemical materials manifested as an array of signals, the array comprising a sub-grid of the chemical materials, said system comprising: a) a memory for storing a digital image of the array; b) a processor for: i) accessing the digital image from said memory; and ii) identifying a sub-grid in the digital image by locating a sub-grid region in the digital image and determining the most probable sub-grid in the sub-grid region. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the sub-grid region in the digital image contains one sub-grid. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising: c) a scanner for scanning the array and outputting the digital image of the array into said memory. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising: c) an arrayer for depositing the chemical materials on a slide to form the array. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said processor is also for: iii) detecting signals associated with the chemical materials in the sub-grid of the array; and iv) measuring signals associated with the chemical materials in the sub-grid of the array. 6. The system of claim 1, said processor determining the most probable sub-grid in the sub-grid region by identifying columns and rows where signals for chemical materials are located to form a candidate sub-grid in the sub-grid region and selecting the most probable sub-grid from at least one candidate sub-grid in the sub-grid region. 7. The system of claim 6, said processor identifying columns and rows where signals for chemical materials arc located to form a candidate sub-grid in the sub-grid region by: summing pixel intensities along the dimensions of the sub-grid region to obtain a column vector and a row vector of pixel sums for the sub-grid region; applying a low pass filter to the vectors; applying a maximum filter to the vectors to form an ordered set of selected maxima for the column vector and an ordered set of selected maxima for the row vector; inserting additional maxima into the ordered sets of selected maxima midway between adjacent selected maxima that are greater than a threshold distance apart to obtain new ordered sets of selected maxima; and verifying that the number of selected maxima in the new ordered sets of selected maxima are not less than a predetermined number of maxima for the column vector and a predetermined number of maxima for the row vector, wherein the locations of the maxima in the new ordered sets of selected maxima specify the grid points for the candidate sub-grid. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the maximum filter has a window sized to an expected diameter of the signals for the chemical materials. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the threshold distance between adjacent selected maxima is the mode distance multiplied by about 1.5. 10. The system of claim 7, wherein the predetermined number of maxima for the column vector is the expected number of columns in a subgrid, and the predetermined number of maxima for the row vector is the expected number of rows in a sub-grid. 11. The system of claim 6, said processor selecting the most probable sub-grid from at least one candidate sub-grid in the sub-grid region by: generating a circular template filter; centering the filter on a grid point in the sub-grid region to calculate a likelihood score reflecting the probability of a signal at the grid point; ordering the grid points in the sub-grid region according to their likelihood scores; specifying candidate sub-grids according to the grid points that comprise the sub-grids; calculating sub-grid scores for the candidate sub-grids in the sub-grid region based on the sum of likelihood scores of the grid points; and selecting the sub-grid having the highest sub-grid score as the most probable sub-grid in the sub-grid region. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein said processor identifying a sub-grid in the digital image further comprises determining whether the most probable sub-grid in the sub-grid region is bounded or free and bounding free sub-grids in the digital image according to the location of bounded sub-grids neighboring free sub-grids. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein said processor is also for: iii) determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image. 14. The system of claim 13, said processor determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image by determining a level of alignment between sub-grids. 15. The system of claim 13, said processor determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image by determining a level of uniformity in distance between sub-grids. 16. The system of claim 13, said processor determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image by determining a number of missing sub-grids in the array. 17. The system of claim 13, said processor determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image by measuring a degree of parallelism of columns and of rows of a sub-grid. 18. The system of claim 13, said processor determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image by measuring a degree of orthogonality between columns and rows of a sub-grid. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the chemical materials are nucleic acid species and the array of signals is a microarray of signals associated with the nucleic acid species. 20. A method of assessing chemical materials manifested as an array of signals in a digital image, comprising: a) accessing the digital image; and b) identifying a sub-grid in the digital image by locating a sub-grid region in the digital image and determining the most probable sub-grid in the sub-grid region. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the sub-grid region in the digital image contains one subgrid. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein determining the most probable sub-grid in the sub-grid region comprises identifying columns and rows where signals for chemical materials are located to form a candidate sub-grid in the sub-grid region and selecting the most probable sub-grid from at least one candidate sub-grid in the sub-grid region. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein identifying columns and rows where signals for chemical materials are located to form a candidate sub-grid in the sub-grid region comprises: summing pixel intensities along the dimensions of the sub-grid region to obtain a column vector and a row vector of pixel sums for the sub-grid region; applying a low pass filter to the vectors; applying a maximum filter to the vectors to form an ordered set of selected maxima for the column vector and an ordered set of selected maxima for the row vector; inserting additional maxima into the ordered sets of selected maxima midway between adjacent selected maxima that are greater than a threshold distance apart to obtain new ordered sets of selected maxima; and verifying that the number of selected maxima in the new ordered sets of selected maxima are not less than a predetermined number of maxima for the column vector and a predetermined number of maxima for the row vector, wherein the locations of the maxima in the new ordered sets of selected maxima specify the grid points for the candidate sub-grid. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the maximum filter has a window sized to an expected diameter of the signals for the chemical materials. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the threshold distance between adjacent selected maxima is the mode distance multiplied by about 1.5. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the predetermined number of maxima for the column vector is the expected number of columns in a subgrid, and the predetermined number of maxima for the row vector is the expected number of rows in a sub-grid. 27. The method of claim 22, wherein selecting the most probable sub-grid from at least one candidate sub-grid in the sub-grid region comprises: generating a circular template filter; centering the filter on a grid point in the sub-grid region to calculate a likelihood score reflecting the probability of a signal at the grid point; ordering the grid points in the sub-grid region according to their likelihood scores; specifying candidate sub-grids according to the grid points that comprise the sub-grids; calculating sub-grid scores for the candidate sub-grids in the sub-grid region based on the sum of likelihood scores of the grid points; and selecting the sub-grid having the highest sub-grid score as the most probable sub-grid in the sub-grid region. 28. The method of claim 20, wherein the chemical materials manifested as an array of signals comprise a microarray of nucleic acid species, the method further comprising acts, prior to step (a), of: depositing a plurality of nucleic acid species on a slide in the configuration of a microarray; hybridizing multiple fluorescently labeled nucleic acids to the microarray; and generating a digital image of the microarray. 29. The method of claim 20, further comprising: c) detecting signals associated with the chemical materials in the sub-grid of the array; and d) measuring signals associated with the chemical materials in the sub-grid of the array. 30. The method of claim 20, wherein indentifying a sub-grid in the digital image further comprises determining whether the most probable sub-grid in the sub-grid region is bounded or free and bounding free sub-grids in the digital image according to the location of bounded subgrids neighboring free sub-grids. 31. The method of claim 20, further comprising: c) generating the digital image. 32. The method of claim 20, wherein the chemical materials are nucleic acid species and the array of signals is a microarray of signals associated with the nucleic acid species. 33. The method of claim 20, further comprising: c) determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image comprises determining a level of alignment between sub-grids. 35. The method of claim 33, wherein determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image comprises determining a level of uniformity in distance between sub-grids. 36. The method of claim 33, wherein determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image comprises determining a number of missing sub-grids in the array. 37. The method of claim 33, wherein determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image comprises measuring a degree of parallelism of columns and of rows of a subgrid. 38. The method of claim 33, wherein determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image comprises measuring a degree of orthogonality between columns and rows of a sub-grid. 39. A computer readable medium having stored therein one or more sequences of instructions for assessing chemical materials manifested as an array of signals in a digital image, said one or more sequences of instructions causing one or more processors to perform a plurality of acts comprising: a) accessing the digital image; b) identifying a sub-grid in the digital image by locating a sub-grid region in the digital image and determining the most probable sub-grid in the sub-grid region. 40. The computer readable medium of claim 39, wherein the sub-grid region in the digital image contains one sub-grid. 41. The computer readable medium of claim 39, wherein determining the most probable sub-grid in the sub-grid region comprises identifying columns and rows where signals for chemical materials are located to form a candidate sub-grid in the sub-grid region and selecting the most probable sub-grid from at least one candidate sub-grid in the sub-grid region. 42. The computer readable medium of claim 39, further comprising: c) determining performance at identifying a sub-grid in the digital image. 43. The computer readable medium of claim 39, wherein the chemical materials are nucleic acid species and the array of signals is a microarray of signals associated with the nucleic acid species. 