A structure and method for connecting capacitor electrodes is provided. One aspect of this disclosure relates to an apparatus for connecting cathodes. The apparatus includes a cathode layer containing an aperture, and a connection member. The connection member includes a protrusion mateable to the aperture having a length at least equal to a thickness of the cathode layer, a first flat section perpendicular to the protrusion, the first flat section having a first side attached to the protrusion and a second side including a contact surface, and a second flat section perpendicular to the first flat section, the second flat section at an offset distance from the protrusion and having a height equal to or greater than the protrusion, and where the connection member is mated to the cathode layer. Other aspects and embodiments are provided herein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a cathode layer containing an aperture; and a connection member including: a protrusion mateable to the aperture, the protrusion having a length at least equal to a thickness of the cathode layer; a first flat section perpendicular to the protrusion, the first flat section having a first side attached to the protrusion and a second side including a contact surface; and a second flat section perpendicular to the first flat section, the second flat section at an offset distance from the protrusion and having a height equal to or greater than the protrusion; and wherein the connection member is mated to the cathode layer. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the protrusion includes a rivet. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the rivet is compressed to mate to the cathode layer. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the contact surface is suitable for contacting with an adjacent connection member to form a cathode interconnect. 5. A capacitor stack comprising: at least one cathode layer containing an aperture; and at least one connection member for each cathode layer, the connection member including: a protrusion mateable to the aperture, the protrusion having a length at least equal to a thickness of the cathode layer; a first flat section perpendicular to the protrusion, the first flat section having a first side attached to the protrusion and a second side including a contact surface; and a second flat section perpendicular to the first flat section, the second flat section at an offset distance from the protrusion, having a height equal to or greater than the protrusion, and having an edge surface opposite the protrusion; wherein the connection member is mated to the cathode layer; and wherein the contact surface is suitable for contacting with an adjacent connection member to form a cathode interconnect. 6. The capacitor stack of claim 5, further comprising: at least one anode layer parallel to the cathode layer; and a separator material separating the cathode layer from the anode layer. 7. The capacitor stack of claim 6, wherein the anode layer includes a thin aluminum foil. 8. The capacitor stack of claim 6, wherein the separator material includes kraft paper. 9. The capacitor stack of claim 6, wherein the second flat section of the connection member has a length sufficient to accommodate the width of the anode layer and the separator between cathode layers. 10. The capacitor stack of claim 5, wherein the cathode layer includes a thin aluminum foil. 11. The capacitor stack of claim 5, wherein the protrusion includes a rivet. 12. The capacitor stack of claim 11, wherein the rivet is compressed to mate to the cathode layer. 13. The capacitor stack of claim 5, wherein the cathode interconnect includes a weld across the edge surfaces of a plurality of connection members. 14. A method for connecting capacitor cathodes, comprising: forming at least one cathode layer containing an aperture; forming a connection member, the connection member including: a protrusion mateable to the aperture, the protrusion having a length at least equal to a thickness of the cathode layer; a first flat section perpendicular to the protrusion, the first flat section having a first side attached to the protrusion and a second side including a contact surface; and a second flat section perpendicular to the first flat section, the second flat section at an offset distance from the protrusion, having a height equal to or greater than the protrusion, and having an edge surface opposite the protrusion; mating the connection member to the aperture; and connecting the connection member of one cathode layer to a connection member of a second cathode layer. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: forming at least one anode layer parallel to the cathode layer; and separating the cathode layer from the anode layer using a separator material. 16. The method of claim 14, further comprising aligning the edge surfaces of adjoining cathode layers to be substantially planar before connecting the connection members. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein forming at least one cathode layer containing an aperture includes forming a cylindrical aperture in the cathode layer. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the protrusion has a cylindrical shape. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein connecting the connection member of one cathode layer to the connection member of a second cathode layer includes placing the respective contact surfaces against one another and welding along the respective edge surfaces. 20. The method of claim 14, wherein mating the connection member to the aperture includes riveting the connection member to the aperture. 