A shopping system is provided having a first interface surface having first coded data identifying a user of the first interface surface, a shopping receptacle having a shopping receptacle identity, and a sensing device. The sensing device is configured to sense the first coded data, sense second coded data of a second interface surface of a product item, generate indicating data from the sensed first and second coded data, and transfer the shopping receptacle identity and indicating data to a computer system. The second coded data is indicative of an identity of the product item and of a plurality of locations of the second interface surface. The indicating data is indicative of the user and product item identities and at least one of a position and orientation of the second coded data and a position and orientation of the sensing device relative to the second interface surface.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A shopping system comprising: a first interface surface having first coded data identifying a user of the first interface surface; a shopping receptacle having a shopping receptacle identity; and a sensing device configured to: sense the first coded data of the first interface surface; sense second coded data of a second interface surface of a product item, said second coded data being indicative of an identity of the product item and of a plurality of locations of the second interface surface; and generate, from the sensed first and second coded data, indicating data indicative of the user and product item identities and at least one of a position and orientation of the sensed second coded data and a position and orientation of the sensing device relative to the second interface surface; and transfer the shopping receptacle identity and the indicating data to a computer system. 2. A shopping system according to claim 1, wherein the first coded data distinguishes the identity of the user from the identity of every other user known to the shopping system. 3. A shopping system according to claim 1, wherein the first coded data is redundantly encoded. 4. A shopping system according to claim 1, wherein the first coded data is redundantly encoded using Reed-Solomon encoding. 5. A shopping system according to claim 1, wherein the first coded data is substantially invisible to the unaided eye. 6. A shopping system of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is printed using infrared ink. 7. A shopping system according to claim 1, wherein the first coded data is provided on the first interface surface coincident with visible markings. 8. A shopping system according to claim 1, wherein the first coded data is disposed over a substantial portion of the first interface surface. 9. A shopping system according to claim 1, wherein the second coded data is redundantly encoded. 10. A shopping system according to claim 1, wherein the second coded data is redundantly encoded using Reed-Solomon encoding. 11. A shopping system according to claim 1, wherein the second coded data is substantially invisible to the unaided eye. 12. A shopping system of claim 1, wherein the second coded data is printed using infrared ink. 13. A shopping system according to claim 1, wherein the second coded data is provided on the second interface surface coincident with visible markings. 14. A shopping system according to claim 1, wherein the second coded data is disposed over a substantial portion of the second interface surface. 