A press system that reduces contamination of workpieces and/or compliant members used in die assemblies of the press from the pressing process. The die assemblies may utilize annular or hole-less stampers in which the compliant member is sealed in the die assembly. The compliant member may have be annular having a cavity at approximately its center. A gap may be generated at the cavity of the compliant member between a constraint member and the stamper. The gap, for example, may be filled with a plug to prevent significant distortion of the stamper over a hole of a disk shaped workpiece due to the pressure induced force generated by the press system. An outer diameter ring surrounding a workpiece may be used to prevent collapse of the stampers outside the diameter of the workpiece to insure uniform pressing out to the outer diameter of the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A die, comprising: a stamper; and a compliant member coupled with the stamper, the compliant member sealed within the die, wherein the compliant member is annular having a cavity to receive a shaft and wherein the compliant member is sealed within the die using an o-ring seal. 2. A die, comprising: a stamper; and a compliant member coupled with the stamper, the compliant member sealed within the die, wherein the die further comprises a constraint member coupled to the compliant member, and wherein the compliant member is sealed between the constraint member and the stamper. 3. The die of claim 2, wherein the compliant member is annular having a cavity at approximately its center and wherein the constraint member is coupled to the compliant member forming a gap, at the approximate center of the compliant member, between the constraint member and the stamper. 4. The die of claim 3, further comprising a pressurized gas disposed in the gap. 5. The die of claim 3, further comprising a plug disposed in the gap. 6. The die of claim 5, wherein the plug is constructed from an elastomer material. 7. The die of claim 5, wherein the plug is constructed from a solid material. 8. The die of claim 2, wherein the compliant member has a first outer diameter being less than a second outer diameter of the stamper. 9. The die of claim 2, wherein the compliant member comprises a membrane. 10. The die of claim 2, further comprising a clamp coupled to the stamper and a die piece, wherein the clamp comprises a leg having a thickness being configured to fit between a pair of the die in a closed position. 11. The die of claim 2, further comprising a clamp coupled to the stamper and a die piece, wherein the clamp comprises a leg having a thickness being greater than a combined thickness of the stamper and a disk to be disposed between a pair of the die. 12. A die comprising: a stamper: a compliant member coupled with the stamper, the compliant member sealed within the die; and a clamp coupled to the stamper and a die piece, wherein the clamp comprises a leg having a thickness being greater than a combined thickness of the stamper and a disk to be disposed between a pair of the die, wherein the die further comprises a chuck having a cavity, wherein a first end of the leg is disposed within the cavity and a second end of the leg extends beyond a surface of the stamper. 13. The die of claim 12, wherein the stamper is ductile. 14. The die of claim 13, further comprising a local edge deformation of the stamper at a point of coupling between the stamper and the clamp. 15. The die of claim 14, wherein the local edge deformation has a depth extending into the cavity and being greater than the thickness of the stamper. 16. The die of claim 2, wherein the stamper is thinner along an outer diameter area than at a central diameter area. 17. A press system, comprising: a upper die and a lower die, each of the upper and lower dies comprising: a stamper; and a compliant member coupled with the stamper, the compliant member sealed within a corresponding die; an actuator arm configured to engage a side of a disk to be disposed between the upper and lower dies; and a ring disposed around an outer diameter of the disk and between the upper and lower dies, wherein the ring has a slot configured to receive the actuator arm. 18. The press system of claim 17, wherein the ring has an outer diameter being substantially equal to an outer diameter of the stamper. 19. The press system of claim 17, wherein the stamper has an outer diameter being greater than an outer diameter of the disk. 20. The press system of claim 17, wherein the compliant member has an outer diameter being less than an outer diameter of the disk. 21. The press system of claim 17, wherein the compliant member has an inner diameter being greater than an inner diameter of the disk. 22. The press system of claim 17, wherein each of the upper and lower dies is detachably coupled with a corresponding thrust mechanism. 23. The press system of claim 17, further comprising a piezo actuator coupled to the actuator arm. 24. The press system of claim 17, wherein each of the upper and lower dies further comprises a clamp coupled to the stamper and a die piece, wherein the clamp comprises a leg having a thickness configured to fit between the upper and lower dies in a closed position. 25. A press system, comprising: a upper die and a lower die, each of the upper and lower dies comprising: a stamper, and a compliant member coupled with the stamper, the compliant member sealed within a corresponding die; and an actuator arm configured to engage a side of a disk to be disposed between the upper and lower dies, wherein each of the upper and lower dies further comprises a clamp coupled to the stamper and a die piece, wherein the clamp comprises a leg having a thickness configured to fit between the upper and lower dies in a closed position, wherein each of the upper and lower dies further comprises a chuck having a cavity, wherein a first end of the leg is disposed within the cavity and a second end of the leg extends beyond a surface of the stamper. 26. The press system of claim 25, wherein the stamper is ductile. 27. The press system of claim 26, further comprising a local edge deformation of the stamper at a point of coupling between the stamper and the clamp. 28. The press system of claim 27, wherein the local edge deformation has a depth extending into the cavity and being greater than the thickness of the stamper. 29. A press system, comprising: a upper die and a lower die, each of the upper and lower dies comprising: a stamper; and a compliant member coupled with the stamper, the compliant member sealed within a corresponding die; and an actuator arm configured to engage a side of a disk to be disposed between the upper and lower dies, wherein the compliant member is annular and wherein the press system further comprises an annular piston having an annulus approximately the same as an annulus of the compliant member. 30. The press system of claim 29, wherein each of the upper and lower dies further comprises a chuck constructed of a solid material, wherein the compliant member and the piston are disposed within the chuck and wherein the compliant member is constrained, by the solid material of the chuck, from displacing outwardly when pressed against the stamper by the annular piston. 31. The press system of claim 17, further comprising a retractable shaft to engage an inner diameter edge of the disk. 32. The press system of claim 31, further comprising an infeed/outfeed mechanism to load the disk on the retractable shaft. 33. An apparatus, comprising: means for sealing compliant members within a upper die and a lower die; means for aligning the upper and lower dies with respect to each other; and means for aligning a disk with at least one of the upper and lower dies without the use of a mandrel disposed through a cavity of the disk. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, further comprising means for clamping a first stamper in the upper die and a second stamper in the lower die. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising means for constraining a first compliant member, within the upper die, from displacing outwardly when pressed against the first stamper. 36. A method, comprising: providing a die having a compliant member, a stamper, and a constraint member; and sealing a compliant member within the die, wherein sealing comprises disposing the compliant member between the stamper and the constraint member. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein sealing comprises sealing the compliant member within the die using an O-ring. 38. A method, comprising: providing a die having a compliant member, a stamper, and a constraint member; and sealing a compliant member within the die, wherein the compliant member is annular having a cavity at approximately its center and wherein the constraint member is coupled to the compliant member forming a gap, at the approximate center of the compliant member, between the constraint member and the stamper. 39. The method of claim 38, further comprising disposing a pressurized gas within the gap. 40. The method of claim 38, further comprising disposing a plug within the gap. 41. A method, comprising: providing a die having a compliant member, a stamper, and a constraint member; sealing a compliant member within the die; centering a disk near the die; and stamping an embossable layer disposed above a base structure of the disk. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein the stamper is ductile and wherein sealing comprises clamping the stamper to a die piece using a clamp having a leg with a thickness being less than a thickness of the stamper. 43. A method, comprising: providing a die having a compliant member, a stamper, and a constraint member; and sealing a compliant member within the die, wherein the compliant member is annular and wherein sealing comprises disposing the compliant within a solid material with a side constrained by the solid material, a first annular surface constrained by the stamper and a second annular surface constrained by the constraint member, wherein the constraint member is an annular piston. 