A high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device and method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens. The invention employs a high-precision motorized metallographic polishing unit, a microscope for viewing and computer controlled digital imaging of 2-D microstructure sections of a pre-selected pattern for 3-D microstructure reconstruction. The microstructure specimens are transferred throughout by a robotic manipulator arm providing greater precision and speed and serial-sectioning process control software provides control. The 3-D reconstruction of the invention can be analyzed in real time and can be accomplished in a matter of hours.
Claims We claim: 1. A high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens comprising: a high-precision, high speed and high repeatability motorized metallographic polishing unit, said polishing unit generating selected serial microstructure sections of said microstructure specimen and measuring the vertical distance between said selected serial microstructure sections; a specimen preparation station for receiving, by robotic manipulator means, a polished section of said microstructure specimen and automated preparation of said polished section for viewing and imaging; a microscope for computer controlled, automated viewing of said microstructure specimen from said specimen preparation station; means for computer controlled digital imaging of said microstructure specimen, a combination of previous images obtained after a preselected number of polished microstructure sections resulting in 3-D microstructure reconstruction using 3-D volume rendering software providing real-time 3-D microstructure software data of said microstructure specimen; and a PC workstation running serial-sectioning process control software providing control of said motorized metallographic polishing unit, said specimen preparation station and means for selecting a number of microstructure sections acquired from said microstructure specimen. 2. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 1 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens wherein said high-precision motorized metallographic polishing unit further comprises: a flat platen covered by a diamond-impregnated polishing film; computer controlled specimen rotating means; and computer controlled specimen securing means. 3. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 1 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens wherein said high-precision motorized metallographic polishing unit further comprises means for preventing scratching or contamination of said specimen after said polishing by said polishing unit and prior to said viewing. 4. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 3 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens wherein said means for preventing scratching or contamination of said specimen comprises a wiping cloth to collect material removed by said metallographic polishing unit from re-contaminating said microstructure specimen during rotation. 5. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 3 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens wherein said means for preventing scratching or contamination of said specimen comprises a lubricant to prevent scratching of the specimen surface. 6. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 1 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens wherein said high-precision motorized metallographic polishing unit further comprises a plurality of polishing machines to provide additional fine and rough polishing. 7. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 1 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructures wherein said specimen preparation station for receiving by robotic manipulator means a polished section of said microstructure specimen and means for preparing said polished section for viewing and imaging, said means for preparing comprising: automated means for cleaning said polished section; and automated means for drying said polished section. 8. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 7 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructures wherein said means for cleaning comprises ultrasonic cleaning. 9. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 1 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructures wherein said means for drying comprises a stream of compressed nitrogen gas. 10. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 1 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructures wherein said microscope further comprises an optical microscope. 11. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 1 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructures wherein said microscope further comprises a scanning electron microscope. 12. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 1 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructures further comprising a real-time x-ray camera for point-by-point mapping of crystallographic orientations of various regions of said polished specimen. 13. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 1 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructures wherein said microscope for computer controlled, automated viewing of said microstructure specimen further comprises a microscope comprising means for controlling x-y planar position of said microstructure section. 14. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 1 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens wherein said means for computer controlled digital imaging further comprises means for computer controlled digital imaging in a pre-specified pattern whereby an entire surface or edges of the specimen are imaged. 15. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 14 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens wherein said means for computer controlled digital imaging further comprises computer software creating large images from multiple over-lapping fields of view. 16. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device of claim 14 for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens wherein said means for computer controlled digital imaging further comprises microstructure specimen region-of-interest specificity. 17. A high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning device for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens comprising: a high-precision motorized metallographic polishing unit, said polishing unit generating selected microstructure sections of said microstructure specimen using a three-plane polishing procedure comprising: a sectioning plane aligned by a fast Fourier transform cross-correlation of edge-most pixels with references faces; means for comparing microstructural features on extreme edges of a sectioning face with corresponding features on said reference face using fast Fourier transform based cross-correlation techniques, thereby establishing four points where section planes intercept references faces; a three dimensional model constructed inside a computer with said sectioning plane in its proper place; and means for updating said three-dimensional model as each new section plane is created; a specimen preparation station for receiving, by robotic manipulator means, a polished section of said microstructure specimen and automated preparation of said polished section for viewing and imaging; a microscope for computer controlled, automated viewing of said microstructure specimen from said specimen preparation station; means for computer controlled digital imaging of said microstructure specimen, a combination of previous images obtained after a preselected number of polished microstructure sections resulting in 3-D microstructure reconstruction using 3-D volume rendering software providing real-time 3-D microstructure software data of said microstructure specimen; and a PC workstation running serial-sectioning process control software providing control of said motorized metallographic polishing unit, said specimen preparation station and means for selecting a number of microstructure sections acquired from said microstructure specimen. 