In a pairing arrangement, a first half-disc and a second half-disc of an optical disc are bonded together by dispensing a bonding material onto the second half-disc and the first half-disc and second half-disc are placed in a chamber. The pressure within the chamber is reduced to a pressure below an ambient pressure and the first half-disc and the second half-disc are brought together within the chamber to distribute the bonding material between a surface of the second half-disc and a corresponding surface of the first half-disc and thereby form a paired disc. This abstract is not to be considered limiting, since other embodiments may deviate from the features described in this abstract.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for pairing an upper half-disc and a lower half-disc of an optical disc, the method comprising: loading the upper half-disc into an upper housing; loading the lower half-disc into a lower housing; dispensing a bonding material onto a surface of at least one of the lower half-disc and the upper half-disc; bringing the upper housing and the lower housing together to form a chamber between the upper housing and the lower housing, reducing the pressure within the chamber to a first pressure below an ambient pressure; and bringing the upper half-disc and the lower half-disc into close proximity within the chamber to distribute the bonding material between the upper surface of the lower half-disc and the lower surface of the upper half-disc and form a paired disc, wherein the lower half-disc is supported on a pair plate in the lower housing and wherein bringing the upper half-disc and the lower half-disc into close proximity within the chamber comprises increasing a pressure below a flexible diaphragm in the lower housing from a second pressure to a pressure greater than the pressure in the chamber, causing the flexible diaphragm to flex upwards and displace the pair plate upwards. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising: increasing the pressure within the chamber from the first pressure to the ambient pressure; and removing the paired disc from the chamber. 3. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the second pressure below the flexible diaphragm is less than the first pressure in the chamber. 4. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein reducing the pressure within the chamber to the first pressure below the ambient pressure comprises applying suction to a vacuum port in the chamber. 5. A method for pairing a first half-disc and a second half-disc of an optical disc, the method comprising: loading the first half-disc into a first housing; loading the second half-disc into a second housing; dispensing a bonding material onto a surface of at least one of the first half-disc and the second half-disc; bringing the first housing and the second housing together to form a chamber between the first housing and the second housing, reducing the pressure within the chamber to a first pressure below an ambient pressure; and bringing the first half-disc and the second half-disc into close proximity within the chamber to distribute the bonding material between a surface of the first half-disc and a surface of the second half-disc and form a paired disc, wherein the second half-disc is supported on a pair plate in the second housing and wherein bringing the first half-disc and the second half-disc into close proximity within the chamber comprises increasing a pressure below a flexible diaphragm in the second housing from a second pressure to a pressure greater than the pressure in the chamber, causing the flexible diaphragm to flex upwards and displace the pair plate upwards. 6. A method in accordance with claim 5, further comprising: increasing the pressure within the chamber from the first pressure to the ambient pressure; and removing the paired disc from the chamber. 7. A method in accordance with claim 5, wherein the second pressure below the flexible diaphragm is less than the first pressure in the chamber. 8. A method in accordance with claim 5, wherein reducing the pressure within the chamber to the first pressure below the ambient pressure comprises applying suction to a vacuum port in the chamber. 9. A method for bonding an upper half-disc and a lower half-disc to form an optical disc, the method comprising: dispensing an ultraviolet curable resin onto a surface of at least one of the upper half-disc and the lower half-disc; placing the upper half-disc and lower half-disc in a chamber; reducing the pressure within the chamber to a first pressure below an ambient pressure; bringing the upper half-disc and the lower half-disc into close proximity within the chamber to distribute the bonding material between the upper surface of the lower half-disc and the lower surface of the upper half-disc and form a paired disc; spinning the paired disc to remove excess ultraviolet curable resin; and exposing the paired disc to ultraviolet light to cure the ultraviolet curable resin and form the optical discs, wherein the lower half-disc is supported on a pair plate in the chamber and wherein bringing the upper half-disc and the lower half-disc into close proximity within the chamber comprises increasing a pressure below a flexible diaphragm in the chamber from a second pressure to a pressure greater than the pressure in the chamber, causing the flexible diaphragm to flex upwards and displace the pair plate upwards. 10. A method in accordance with claim 9, further comprising: checking the optical disc for defects; and discarding the optical disc if a defect is found. 11. A method in accordance with claim 9, wherein placing the upper half-disc and lower half-disc in the chamber comprises: loading the upper half-disc into an upper housing; loading the lower half-disc into a lower housing; and bringing the upper housing and the lower housing together to form the chamber between the upper housing and the lower housing. 