A robot or vehicle locomotes by tumbling. Legs distributed over the surface of the robot individually extend or retract. A control system coordinates the action of the legs to cause the robot to tumble in any direction. A robot using this form of locomotion is highly maneuverable, can climb slopes, and can step over obstacles. It can provide a smooth ride on rugged terrain. A variation can jump into the air and land safely. A variation can be built with as few as six moving parts, can fold to fit into a projectile, and instantly unfold on landing. It may use airbags instead of legs. It can include a video system without moving parts that produces a stable, non-tumbling view of its surroundings while tumbling. It is an ideal remotely operated vehicle for search and rescue, firefighting, or reconnaissance for the military or police.
Claims We claim: 1. A vehicle or robot comprising: (a) a body having a plurality of support elements of adjustable length or extension, (b) said support elements arranged on said body so as to support said vehicle or robot on a surface in substantially all possible orientations, and (c) a device for controlling the extension of each of said support elements individually so that the action of said support elements urges said vehicle or robot to tumble or roll cyclically over said surface over an extended distance over an arbitrary route, regardless of the initial orientation. 2. The vehicle or robot of claim 1 wherein said device for controlling the extension of each of said support elements maintains the center of mass of said body at an approximately constant elevation, or a gently changing elevation, so as to achieve smooth tumbling action, whereby smooth, efficient locomotion is achieved by a vehicle without a spherical or cylindrical shape. 3. The vehicle or robot of claim 1 wherein said support elements are arranged according to the vertices or faces of a Platonic solid, whereby symmetry and simplicity may be enhanced. 4. The vehicle or robot of claim 1 wherein said body, exclusive of said support elements, is formed by elongated members with ends connected by wires or cords in tension, wherein said wires or cords in tension have some elasticity, whereby shocks are absorbed, and whereby said body can be folded to fit into a narrow container, forcing some of said wires or cords to stretch or extend elastically in tension, storing energy, the release of which provides a quick and simple means of unfolding. 5. The vehicle or robot of claim 1 wherein said device for controlling the extension of each of said support elements absorbs energy, rather than providing power, whereby the direction and destination of an already tumbling vehicle may be precisely controlled, possibly without carrying a power source. 6. A method to provide a stabilized view from a tumbling vehicle, comprising: (a) providing a plurality of imaging devices or cameras, arranged on said tumbling vehicle so that together their fields of view cover substantially the entire solid angle around said tumbling vehicle, (b) providing an image processor that will: (1) receive inputs from said imaging devices or cameras, (2) integrate, merge, or stitch together the input images, (3) switch between said inputs as appropriate, (4) compensate for motion caused by tumbling, and (5) produce a stabilized image that provides a substantially constant direction of view; (c) providing a means of transmitting or recording said stabilized image, whereby said stabilized image can be seen by a human or autonomous operator and used to navigate said tumbling vehicle or to perform reconnaissance and said stabilized image can be achieved without using gimbals or other moving parts. 