Surgical robots and other telepresence systems have enhanced grip actuation for manipulating tissues and objects with small sizes. A master/slave system is used in which an error signal or gain is artificially altered when grip members are near a closed configuration.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling movement of end effectors, comprising: receiving an input signal indicative of a squeezing together of first and second grip members; generating a control signal to command movement of first and second end effector elements in response to the input signal according to a control relationship; and altering the control relationship when the input signal indicates that the grip members are near a closed configuration. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the control relationship causes generation of the control signal so as to command imposing a following force on the end effector elements with an actuator so that the following force varies in response to a misalignment between a grip separation and an end effector separation. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising receiving information of the grip separation and the end effector separation, and wherein the control signal generation comprises comparing the grip separation and the end effector separation to produce an error signal indicating the separation misalignment. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: transmitting an actuator signal to the actuator in response to the error signal, and wherein the alteration of the control relationship comprises increasing the actuator signal when the input signal indicates that the grip members reach a predetermined transition point near the closed configuration. 5. The method of claim 2, further comprising applying a feedback following force against the grip separation members in response to the separation misalignment. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the alteration of the control relationship is performed according to a continuous invertible function of the grip separation, and wherein the application of the feedback is performed according to another continuous invertible function. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the alteration of the control relationship is performed so that an actuator imposes a first following force when the grip members are away from the closed position and a difference between a first grip separation and a first end effector separation defines a first separation misalignment, and so that the actuator imposes a second following force when the grip member are adjacent the closed position with the first misalignment, the second following force being different than the first following force. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the alteration of the control relationship comprises: altering a measured grip separation signal to generate a desired end effector separation signal, and subtracting the desired end effector separation signal from a measured end effector separation signal. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the alteration of the measured grip separation signal is performed according to an invertible function of the measured grip separation signal. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising resisting the squeezing of the grip members with a mechanical biasing mechanism when the grip separation is less than a predetermined grip separation so as to indicate to an operator the enhanced following force. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the alteration of the control relation is dependent upon strengths of the end effectors. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the end effector elements comprise cooperating surgical instrument jaws defining a closed configuration by engagement therebetween, and wherein the alteration of the control relationship comprises imposing a greater following force against an object for a given separation misalignment when the jaws are near the closed configuration so as to allow the jaws to impose a maximum following force with a small tissue therebetween. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the input signal indicates gripping step changes an angular separation between the grip members, and wherein the control signal is generated so as to command a jaw angle substantially equal to the grip angle when the jaws are free to move. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the control signal is generated so as to command movement of the end effectors in a workspace with uniform following forces in response to the input signal indicating movement of the grip elements in a plurality of degrees of freedom substantially throughout associated ranges of motion of the end effector. 