A method is provided of embedding tooling control data within a mechanical fixture design to enable programmable logic control verification simulation. The method includes the steps of constructing at least one of a mechanical fixture design, a workcell design, and a controls design. The method also includes the steps of executing a virtual programmable logic control (VPLC) simulation with a VPLC verification simulator to verify the at least one of the mechanical fixture design, the workcell design, and the controls design.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of designing a control system and using data from a design of the control system to enable programmable logic control verification simulation of programmable logic controller code for the control system, said method comprising the steps of: constructing at least one mechanical fixture design, workcell design, and a controls design using a computer; exporting mechanical fixture data from the mechanical fixture design, workcell data from the workcell design, and control data from the controls design and aligning the mechanical fixture data, workcell data, and control data with each other using the computer to be useable by a virtual programmable logic control (VPLC) verification simulator; and executing a VPLC simulation with the VPLC verification simulator using the mechanical fixture data, workcell data, and control data with the computer to verify the mechanical fixture design, the workcell design, and the controls design meet an intent of a design for the control system. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 including a step of determining whether the mechanical fixture design is good. 3. A method as set forth in claim 2 including a step of changing the mechanical fixture design if the mechanical fixture design is not good. 4. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said step of constructing the mechanical fixture design comprises receiving information of a mechanical sequence, motion files, and tessellated geometry from a design engineering source. 5. A method as set forth in claim 1 including a step of determining whether the workcell design is good. 6. A method as set forth in claim 5 including a step of changing the workcell design if the workcell design is not good. 7. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said step of constructing the workcell design comprises receiving information of a mechanical sequence, motion files, tessellated geometry, and sensors from a design engineering source. 8. A method as set forth in claim 1 including a step of determining whether the controls design is good. 9. A method as set forth in claim 8 including a step of changing the controls design if the controls design is not good. 10. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said step of constructing the controls design comprises an operator selecting a hardware design, template designation, PLC addressing, and PLC logic from a design engineering source. 11. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said step of executing the virtual programmable logic control (VPLC) simulation with the VPLC verification simulator includes receiving the mechanical fixture design, the workcell design, and the controls design. 12. A method as set forth in claim 11 wherein said step of executing further comprises executing the virtual programmable logic control (VPLC) simulation with the VPLC verification simulator based on the mechanical fixture design, the workcell design, and the controls design. 13. A method as set forth in claim 1 including a step of determining whether the controls design is validated. 14. A method as set forth in claim 13 including a step of changing the controls design if the controls design is not validated. 15. A method as set forth in claim 13 including a step of constructing a machine build comprising selecting a tool construction, assembly, controls, and run. 16. A method as set forth in claim 15 including a step of determining whether the machine build is to be performed. 17. A method as set forth in claim 16 including a step of changing the machine build if the machine build is not to be performed. 18. A method of designing a control system and using data from a design of the control system to enable programmable logic control verification simulation of programmable logic controller code for the control system, said method comprising the steps of: constructing at least one mechanical fixture design, workcell design, and controls design using a computer; exporting mechanical fixture data from the mechanical fixture design, workcell data from the workcell design, and control data from the controls design and aligning the mechanical fixture data, workcell data, and control data with each other using the computer to be useable by a virtual programmable logic control (VPLC) verification simulator; executing a VPLC simulation with the VPLC verification simulator using the computer based on the mechanical fixture data, workcell data, and control data of the mechanical fixture design, the workcell design, and the controls design to verify the mechanical fixture design, the workcell design, and the controls design meet an intent of a design for the control system; and constructing a machine build based on the verified mechanical fixture design, the workcell design, and the controls design. 19. A method as set forth in claim 18 including a step of determining whether the mechanical fixture design is good. 20. A method as set forth in claim 19 including a step of changing the mechanical fixture design if the mechanical fixture design is not good. 21. A method as set forth in claim 18 including a step of determining whether the workcell design is good. 22. A method as set forth in claim 21 including a step of changing the workcell design if the workcell design is not good. 23. A method as set forth in claim 18 including a step of determining whether the controls design is good. 24. A method as set forth in claim 23 including a step of changing the controls design if the controls design is not good. 25. A method as set forth in claim 18 including a step of determining whether the controls design is validated. 26. A method as set forth in claim 25 including a step of changing the controls design if the controls design is not validated. 27. A method as set forth in claim 18 including a step of determining whether the machine build is to be performed. 28. A method as set forth in claim 27 including a step of changing the machine build if the machine build is not to be performed. 