A robot including a robot body, a plurality of wheels on the robot body for propelling the robot body, and an axle for each wheel. Each wheel is configured to alternately attach to an axle at or proximate the center of the wheel for high efficiency mobility on flat terrain and also configured to attach to an axle at a position offset from the center of the wheel for better mobility on rougher terrain.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a robot body; a plurality of wheels on the robot body for propelling the robot body; an axle for each wheel; and each wheel configured to alternately attach to an axle at or proximate the center of the wheel for high efficiency mobility on flat terrain and also configured to attach to an axle at a position offset from the center of the wheel for better mobility on rougher terrain. 2. The robot of claim 1 in which each wheel includes a plurality of axle boxes spaced along a radius of the wheel. 3. The robot of claim 2 in which one axle box is at or proximate the center of the wheel and one axle box is at or proximate the rim of the wheel. 4. The robot of claim 3 further including at least one intermediate axle box between the center axle box and the rim axle box. 5. The robot of claim 1 further including a subsystem for automatically changing the configuration of each wheel. 6. The robot of claim 5 in which said subsystem includes an actuator for driving the axle between a center mount position and an offset position. 7. The robot of claim 1 further including a controller configured to alternatively actuate said wheels according to a first algorithm when the wheels are mounted at or proximate their centers and to operate said wheels according to a second algorithm when said wheels are not mounted at or proximate their centers. 8. The robot of claim 7 in which the second algorithm drives said wheels in an alternating tripod fashion. 9. The robot of claim 1 in which at least one said wheel includes an integral flipper. 10. The robot of claim 1 in which said axles are located to permit inverted robot operation. 11. A robot comprising: wheels configured to be attached to the robot at or proximate the center of the wheel for efficient mobility on flat terrain and to be attached at a position offset from the center of the wheel for better mobility on rough terrain; and a controller configured to alternately actuate said wheels according to a first algorithm when the wheels are attached to the robot at or proximate the center of the wheels and to operate said wheels according to a second algorithm when the wheels are attached to the robot at a position offset from the center of the wheels. 12. The robot of claim 11 in which said second algorithm drives said wheels in an alternating tripod fashion. 13. The robot of claim 11 further including a subsystem for automatically changing the configuration of each wheel. 14. The robot of claim 11 in which said subsystem includes an actuator for driving the axle between a center mount position and an offset position. 15. The robot of claim 11 in which at least one said wheel includes an integral geometry which produces aquatic propulsion. 