A printhead assembly is provided comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits, drive electronics incorporating at least one controller arranged to control the printing operation of a selectable number of the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector, and a casing in which the at least one printhead module and the drive electronics are removably mounted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two, separate printhead integrated circuits, each of the printhead integrated circuits having nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, one elongate support member supporting the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; drive electronics incorporating at least one controller arranged to control the printing operation of a selectable number of the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector; a mounting element on which the drive electronics are mounted; and a casing removably mounting the at least one printhead module and the mounting element, the at least one printhead module being removably mounted through clamping of the elongate support member to a support frame of the casing by a clamping arrangement of the mounting element, the clamping arrangement being configured to allow constrained movement of the printhead module relative to the casing during use. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the at least one printhead module comprises one or more groups of two printhead integrated circuits and a single controller is selected for controlling each group of two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the at least one printhead module comprises one or more groups of four printhead integrated circuits and a single controller is selected for controlling each group of four printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the at least one printhead module comprises one or more groups of eight printhead integrated circuits and a single controller is selected for controlling each group of eight printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the at least one printhead module comprises one or more groups of sixteen printhead integrated circuits and a single controller is selected for controlling each group of sixteen printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least one fluid distribution member mounting the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 