A printhead assembly with a communications module for a wallpaper printing system, the printhead assembly comprising: a casing; a printhead module; a fluid channel member positioned adjacent to the printhead module, the fluid channel member including a plurality of ducts that substantially span the length of the printhead module; a power supply connection port positioned at a distal end of the casing, the power supply port electrically connected to at least one busbar that substantially spans the length of the printhead module; a fluid delivery connection port positioned at a distal end of the casing, the fluid delivery port in fluid communication with the fluid channel member; and, a data connection port positioned at a distal end of the casing, the data port electrically connected to at least one printed circuit board positioned within the casing, the at least one printed circuit board further electrically connected to the printhead module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly with a communications module for a printing system, the printhead assembly comprising: a casing; a printhead module; a plurality of printed circuit boards each mounted to the casing by a support member and electrically connected to the printhead module, the support members having matching engagement portions at which the associated printed circuit boards are electrically connected to each other; a fluid channel member positioned adjacent to the printhead module, the fluid channel member including a plurality of ducts that substantially span the length of the printhead module; and a connector arrangement removably mounted to a distal end of the casing, the connector arrangement incorporating: a power supply connection port electrically connected to at least one busbar that substantially spans the length of the printhead module; a fluid delivery connection port in fluid communication with the fluid channel member; an engagement portion which matches the engagement portions of the support members; and, a data connection port electrically connected to the printed circuit board positioned at the distal end of the casing at the matching engagement portions of the connector arrangement and support member supporting said printed circuit board. 2. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead module includes a plurality of printhead tiles. 3. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 2, wherein each printhead tile is in electrical connection with the power supply port, data communication with the data port and fluid communication with the fluid delivery port. 4. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fluid channel member is provided with a female end portion at one distal end and a male end portion at the other distal end. 5. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 4, wherein more than one fluid channel member can be fixedly associated together in an end to end arrangement. 6. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fluid channel member includes a series of fluid outlet ports arranged along the length of the fluid channel member. 7. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fluid channel member has a female end or a male end to engage the fluid delivery connection port. 8. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fluid delivery connection port is provided with tubular portions to attach to a plurality of ink fluid supply tubes. 9. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein each printhead tile is supported by the fluid channel member. 10. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the connector arrangement includes a spring portion. 11. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 10, wherein the spring portion is at least one integrated serpentine member of the connector arrangement. 12. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein an endplate is disposed between the casing and the connection ports. 13. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead module prints a wallpaper pattern on to a media web to produce wallpaper. 14. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, for use in a mobile printer for producing printed media web, the printer comprising: a vehicle adapted to hold and transport the printer; input means for a consumer to select a print pattern to be printed on a media web to form the printed media web; at least one media cartridge containing the media web; a printhead extending at least the width of the media web; drive means to drive the media web past the printhead; and, at least one processor to receive and process the selected print pattern and to control printing of the selected print pattern. 