A process and apparatus for testing material libraries, in particular catalysts, by means of coupled use of at least two analytical methods, preferably IR thermography and mass spectrometry. Owing to the selected arrangement, the disadvantages of the two previously known individual methods are compensated for: the subsequent selectivity determination for selected sections by means of mass spectrometry invalidates the argument against IR thermography, of only being able to determine activities; the rapid integrated determination of potentially "good" materials via IR thermography prevents an excessive loss of time by needing to test all materials of a library successively with the mass spectrometer. The reactor design permits, firstly, the integral recording of the entire reactor through a window which is transparent for the corresponding method and, secondly, permits the simultaneous, automated application of a second analytical method (for example mass spectrometry) to selected materials of a material library, which have been rated as active by the optical method. In the case described, the optical method provides information on the material activity for a set problem, and the second analytical method determines the selectivity of the materials.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for determining catalytic properties of individual building blocks of a material library disposed on a substrate provided in a housing, the process comprising: introducing a starting material to the building blocks to carry out a chemical or physical or chemical and physical conversion of the starting material and obtain for each building block an effluent stream containing a conversion product and/or the starting material; simultaneously measuring, with a first sensor, a temperature or temperature change of each building block; determining, automatically by a data processing system, which of the building blocks to include in a subset of the building blocks by comparing the temperature or temperature change with a predetermined limit value, the subset including fewer than all of the building blocks measured with the first sensor; and measuring, with a second sensor, a further parameter which is indicative of the selectivity of each of the building blocks in only the subset, wherein the selectivity is measured in the respective effluent streams by determining a concentration of the desired product, or a concentration of the parallel products and a residual concentration of the starting materials; wherein the first sensor and the second sensor are configured so as to be capable of conducting measurements with respect to the building blocks when the building blocks are supported on the substrate in the housing. 2. A process according to claim 1, further comprising, before the simultaneous measuring step, a step of producing the material library. 3. A process according to claim 1, wherein a portion of each effluent stream from each building block of the subset is passed to the second sensor via a sniffing capillary positioned in the effluent stream by means of a suitable drive means. 4. A process according to claim 3, wherein the drive means is controlled automatically by the data processing system. 5. A process according to claim 1, wherein the first sensor is an infrared thermography camera, and the temperature or temperature change of each building block is measured thermographically by the camera. 6. A process according to claim 5, wherein, in the simultaneously measuring step, the camera measures the temperatures of the building blocks simultaneously. 7. A process according to claim 1, wherein: the second sensor senses by a method selected from the group consisting of mass spectrometry, gas chromatography, gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, and FT-IR spectroscopy; and measuring with the second sensor comprises passing a portion of an effluent stream of each building block of the subset to the second sensor for analysis by the second sensor. 8. A process according to claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises a tube bundle reactor or heat exchanger and has channels in which the building blocks are located. 9. A process according to claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises a block of a solid material which has channels. 10. A process according to claim 1, wherein the building blocks are heterogeneous catalysts and/or their precursors. 11. A process according to claim 10, wherein the building blocks are inorganic heterogeneous catalysts and/or their precursors. 12. A process according to claim 1, wherein the building blocks are solid catalysts or supported catalysts and/or their precursors. 13. A process according to claim 12, wherein each building block is present as a catalyst bed, tube-wall coating or auxiliary support coating. 14. A process according to claim 1, wherein the temperature or temperature change is indicative of the activity of the respective building blocks such that the step of determining which building blocks to include in the subset includes determining which of the building blocks has catalytic activity above a predetermined threshold. 15. A process according to claim 1, further comprising, before the simultaneous measuring step, a step of introducing to the building block a starting material that can undergo any of the following: decomposition of nitrogen oxides, synthesis of ammonia, oxidation of ammonia, oxidation of hydrogen sulphide to sulphur, oxidation of sulphur dioxide, direct synthesis of methylchlorosilanes, oil refining, oxidative coupling of methane, methanol synthesis, hydrogenation of carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide, conversion of methanol to hydrocarbons, catalytic reforming, catalytic cracking and hydrocracking, coal gasification and liquefaction, heterogeneous photocatalysis, synthesis of ethers, isomerizations, alkylations, aromatizations, dehydrogenations, hydrogenations, hydroformylations, selective or partial oxidations, aminations, halogenations, nucleophilic aromatic substitutions, addition and elimination reactions, dimerizations, oligomerizations and metathesis polymerizations, enantioselective catalysis and biocatalytic reactions. 16. An apparatus comprising: a substrate provided in a housing, the substrate being configured to support building blocks and receive a starting material dispensed to the building blocks; a first sensor for measuring a temperature or a temperature change of the building blocks; a second sensor for measuring a second parameter which is indicative of the selectivity of only a subset of the building blocks, the subset including fewer than all of the building blocks; a data processing device that selects the building blocks to be included in the subset by comparing the first parameter with a predetermined limit value; and a sniffing capillary; wherein: the first sensor and the second sensor are provided so as to be capable of conducting measurements with respect to the building blocks when the building blocks are supported on the substrate in the housing; and the sniffing capillary is controlled automatically by the data processing device to position the sniffing capillary to receive an effluent stream from each building block of the subset, the sniffing capillary being configured to conduct the effluent streams to the second sensor. 17. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the first sensor is an infrared camera. 18. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the second sensor senses by a method selected from the group consisting of mass spectrometry, gas chromatography, gas chromatography/mass spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, and FT-IR spectroscopy. 19. An apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the second sensor is a quadrupole mass spectrometer. 20. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the substrate comprises a planar arrangement having a wire grid or foamed ceramic. 21. An apparatus according to claim 16, further comprising means for heating and/or cooling the housing. 22. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the housing has an IR-transparent window, and the first sensor comprises an infrared camera disposed outside the housing in front of the IR-transparent window. 23. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the substrate comprises a block made of electrically conductive material with channels, the block being heatable by resistance heating. 24. An apparatus according to claim 23, wherein each channel comprises a carrier. 25. An apparatus as defined in claim 24, wherein the carriers are synthesized into the channels. 26. An apparatus according to claim 24, wherein each carrier and/or channel supports a building block. 