Controlling an orienting/positioning system having a sensor and actuator for controlling at least one of an orienting and positioning action of the sensor. The invention (1) evaluates pre-action output information of a sensor in order to detect the position of a pattern in the input space of the sensor, (2) determines a targeted post-action position of the pattern in the input space of the sensor, (3) defines an actuator command by mapping any deviation of the pre-action and post action position in the input space to actuator control coordinates using a predefined mapping function, (4) controls the actuators according to the defined command to execute the orienting/positioning action, (5) detects the real post-action position of the pattern in an input space of the sensor, (6) adapts the mapping function based on differences between the real post-action position and the targeted post-action position of the pattern in the input space.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling an orienting/positioning system, the orienting/positioning system comprising at least a sensor and an actuator for controlling at least one of an orienting and a positioning action of the sensor, the method comprising the steps of: (S1) evaluating pre-action output information of the sensor in order to detect a pre-action position of a pattern in an input space of the sensor; (S2) determining a targeted post-action position of the pattern in the input space of the sensor; (S3) defining a command for the actuator by mapping any deviation of the pre-action position and the targeted post-action position in the input space of the sensor to actuator control coordinates using a predefined mapping function; (S4) orienting the sensor by the actuator according to the defined command in order to carry out the orienting action; and (S5) detecting a real post-action position of the pattern in the input space of the sensor; and (S6) adapting the mapping function used in step S3 based on any difference of the real post-action position and the targeted post-action position of the pattern in the input space of the sensor in order to carry out an incremental adaptive learning of the mapping function, wherein steps S1 to S6 are cyclically repeated at least once using the respectively adapted mapping function. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step S6 comprises the steps of: calculating a correction signal based on any difference of the real post-action position and the targeted position of the pattern in the input space of the sensor, and adapting the mapping function taking into account the correction signal, the executed actuator command and the pre-action position of the pattern in the input space of the sensor. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein before adaptation of the mapping function, an adaptation vector is multiplied with a factor larger than or equal to 0 and smaller than or equal to 1 in order to control an adaptation rate for the mapping function. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising the steps of: computing a confidence value based on a comparison between sensor patterns before and after the action was executed; and modulating an adaptation vector with the confidence value such that an adaptation rate depends on the confidence value. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein step S6 comprises the steps of: calculating a correction signal on the basis of the pre-action position which has actually been moved to the targeted post-action position when carrying out the action, and adapting the mapping function taking into account the correction signal and the executed actuator command. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the mapping function is implemented by means of a look-up table. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein in steps S1 to S6, for each cycle, not only the position of the pattern, but also a neighborhood in a defined range surrounding this position is used. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the range of the neighborhood can be changed between two subsequent cycles. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the adaptation of the mapping function is carried out in the sensor coordinates. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the adaptation of the mapping function is carried out in the actuator coordinates. 11. A computer software product adapted for implementing the method of claim 1 when running on a computing device. 12. The method for controlling an orienting/positioning system, the orienting/positioning system comprising at least a sensor and an actuator for controlling at least one of an orienting and a positioning action of the sensor, comprising the steps of: (S1) mapping output information of the sensor in the input space coordinates of the sensor to actuator control coordinates using a predefined mapping function; (S2) determining a targeted post-action position, the decision taking place in the actuator control coordinates; (S3) defining a command for the actuator based on a result of the decision; and (S4) orienting the sensor by the actuator according to the defined command in order to carry out the orienting action of the sensor. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein outputs of a plurality of sensors are individually mapped into actuator coordinates and then combined, wherein the decision in step S2 is carried out on the basis of the result of the combination. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein constraints of the actuator are taken into account when making the decision in step S2. 15. An auto-calibrating orienting/positioning system, comprising at least a sensor means, a computing means and an actuator means for controlling at least one of an orienting and a positioning action of the sensor means, the computing means comprising: means for evaluating pre-action output information of the sensor means in order to detect a pre-action position of a pattern in an input space of the sensor means; means for deciding on a targeted post-action position of the pattern in the input space of the sensor means; means for commanding the actuator means, a command being generated by mapping any deviation of the pre-action position and the targeted post-action position in the input space of the sensor means to actuator control coordinates using a predefined mapping function; means for detecting a real post-action position of the pattern in the input space of the sensor means; and means for calibrating the mapping function based on any difference of the real post-action position and the targeted post-action position of the pattern in the input space of the sensor means in order to carry out an incremental adaptive learning of the mapping function. 16. The system of claim 15, further comprising means for calculating a correction signal based on any difference of the real post-action position and the targeted position of the pattern in the input space of the sensor means, wherein the mapping function is calibrated taking into account the correction signal, the executed actuator command and the pre-action position of the pattern in the input space of the sensor means. 17. The system of claim 15, further comprising means for calculating a correction signal on the basis of the pre-action position which has actually been moved to the targeted post-action position when carrying out the action, wherein the mapping function is calibrated taking into account the correction signal and the executed actuator command. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein before the calibration of the mapping function, an adaptation vector is multiplied with a factor larger than or equal to 0 and smaller than or equal to 1 in order to control an adaptation rate for the mapping function. 19. The system of claim 15, further comprising: means for computing a confidence value based on a correlation of selected sensor patterns before and after an action was executed, and means for modulating an adaptation vector with the confidence value such that an adaptation rate depends on the confidence value. 20. The system of claim 15, wherein the mapping function is implemented by means of a look-up table. 21. The system of claim 15, wherein the sensor means comprise at least one of a camera and a microphone. 