A roll media printer is provided having a printhead for printing on a media web conveyed along a path defined between a loading area and a winding area to produce printed media, and a handling apparatus removably retained in the winding area. The handling apparatus has a core located within a container configured so that printed media produced by the printhead is wound onto the core and packaged in the container as printed roll media.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A roll media printer comprising: a printhead for printing on a media web conveyed along a path defined between a loading area and a winding area to produce printed media, the winding area being configured to removably retain a handling apparatus; and a handling apparatus retained in the winding area, the handling apparatus comprising a core located within a container configured so that printed media produced by the printhead is wound onto the core and packaged in the container as printed roll media. 2. The printer of claim 1, further comprising spindles for aligning, retaining and removing the handling apparatus so that the core is rotatable. 3. The printer of claim 2, further comprising couplings arranged to engage each end of the core, at least one of the couplings being a driven coupling which engages the spindle so as to allow rotation of the core. 4. The printer of claim 1, further comprising an internal dryer located between the printhead and the winding area so as to blow air onto the printed media. 5. The printer of claim 1, further comprising a cutting mechanism located between the printhead and the winding area so as to separate the printed media from the media web. 6. The printer of claim 1, further comprising a slitting mechanism located between the printhead and the winding area so as to longitudinally slit the printed media prior to winding. 7. The printer of claim 1, wherein the printhead is at least as wide as the media web and is located across the path. 8. The printer of claim 1, further comprising a processor for configuring the printhead to print onto the media to produce the printed media. 9. The printer of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to accept operator inputs which are used to configure the printhead. 