A tape cartridge transport assembly for moving a tape cartridge between a first library and a second library includes a guide arrangement disposable between the first and second libraries, and a cartridge carrier that is moveable along the guide arrangement. The cartridge carrier includes a carrier body having an opening for receiving the tape cartridge, and a retention device associated with the carrier body. The retention device is engageable with the tape cartridge for retaining the tape cartridge in the carrier body as the cartridge carrier moves along the guide arrangement. The assembly further includes a drive mechanism associated with the cartridge carrier for automatically moving the cartridge carrier along the guide arrangement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tape cartridge transport assembly for moving a tape cartridge between a first library and a second library, the transport assembly comprising: a guide arrangement disposable between the first and second libraries; a cartridge carrier that is moveable along the guide arrangement, the cartridge carrier including a carrier body having an opening for receiving the tape cartridge, and a retention device associated with the carrier body, the retention device being engageable with the tape cartridge for retaining the tape cartridge in the carrier body as the cartridge carrier moves along the guide arrangement; and a drive mechanism associated with the cartridge carrier for automatically moving the cartridge carrier along the guide arrangement; wherein the carrier body is configured to receive the tape cartridge such that a front surface of the tape cartridge faces outwardly when the tape cartridge is received in the carrier body, and the retention device is configured to engage the front surface of the tape cartridge. 2. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the retention device includes an engaging member that is engageable with the tape cartridge, and a release member that is pivotable with respect to the carrier body and associated with the engaging member for disengaging the engaging member from the tape cartridge. 3. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the retention device includes an engaging member that is engageable with the tape cartridge, and an electrically activated release apparatus associated with the engaging member for disengaging the engaging member from the tape cartridge. 4. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the guide arrangement includes a guide body having first and second ends disposable proximate the first and second libraries, respectively, and a first actuator member disposed proximate the first end of the guide body, and wherein the retention device includes an engaging member that is engageable with the tape cartridge, and a release member associated with the engaging member for moving the engaging member, the release member being engageable with the first actuator member when the cartridge carrier is moved toward the first end of the guide body to thereby disengage the engaging member from the tape cartridge. 5. The assembly of claim 4 wherein the guide arrangement further includes a second actuator member disposed proximate the second end of the guide body, and the release member of the cartridge carrier is engageable with the second actuator member of the guide arrangement when the cartridge carrier is moved toward the second end of the guide body to thereby disengage the engaging member from the tape cartridge. 6. The assembly of claim 4 wherein the first actuator member extends below the guide body, and the release member extends above the carrier body. 7. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the retention device includes an engaging member that is engageable with the tape cartridge, and the assembly further includes an actuator member associated with the engaging member for automatically disengaging the engaging member from the tape cartridge. 8. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the guide arrangement includes a guide body having first and second tracks, and the cartridge carrier is moveable along the tracks. 9. The assembly of claim 8 wherein the guide arrangement further includes a switching mechanism associated with the guide body for allowing the cartridge carrier to switch between the first and second tracks. 10. A tape library system comprising: a first tape library; a second tape library located proximate the first tape library; and a tape cartridge transport assembly for moving a tape cartridge between the first tape library and the second tape library, the transport assembly including a guide body having first and second ends located proximate the first and second tape libraries, respectively, an actuator member on the guide body proximate the first end, and a cartridge carrier that is moveable along the guide body between the first and second libraries, the cartridge carrier including a carrier body having an opening for receiving the tape cartridge, and a retention device associated with the carrier body, the retention device including an engaging member that is engageable with the tape cartridge to retain the tape cartridge in the carrier body as the cartridge carrier moves along the guide body, and a release member associated with the engaging member for moving the engaging member, the release member being engageable with the actuator member when the cartridge carrier is moved toward the first end of the guide body to thereby disengage the engaging member from the tape cartridge. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the carrier body is configured to receive the tape cartridge such that a front surface of the tape cartridge faces outwardly when the tape cartridge is received in the carrier body, and the engaging member is engageable with the front surface of the tape cartridge. 12. The system of claim 10 wherein the cartridge carrier further comprises a biasing member associated with the engaging member for urging the engaging member into engagement with the tape cartridge, and wherein the release member is configured to disengage the actuator member when the cartridge carrier is moved away from the first end of the guide body to thereby allow the engaging member to engage the tape cartridge. 13. The system of claim 10 wherein the guide body includes first and second tracks, and the cartridge carrier is moveable along the tracks, and the transport assembly further includes a drive mechanism associated with the cartridge carrier for automatically moving the cartridge carrier along the tracks, and a switching mechanism associated with the guide body for allowing the cartridge carrier to switch between the first and second tracks. 14. The system of claim 10 wherein the transport assembly further includes a second actuator member disposed proximate the second end of the guide body, and wherein the release member of the cartridge carrier is engageable with the second actuator member when the cartridge carrier is moved toward the second end of the guide body to thereby disengage the engaging member from the tape cartridge, and the release member is disengageable from the second actuator member when the cartridge carrier is moved away from the second end of the guide body to thereby allow the engaging member to engage the tape cartridge. 15. A tape library system comprising: a first tape library; a second tape library located proximate the first tape library; and a tape cartridge transport assembly for moving a tape cartridge between the first tape library and the second tape library, the transport assembly including a guide body having first and second portions located proximate the first and second tape libraries, respectively, and a cartridge carrier that is moveable along the guide body between the first and second libraries, the cartridge carrier including a carrier body having an opening for receiving the tape cartridge, and a retention device associated with the carrier body, the retention device including an engaging member that is engageable with the tape cartridge to retain the tape cartridge in the carrier body as the cartridge carrier moves along the guide body, wherein the carrier body is configured to receive the tape cartridge such that a front surface of the tape cartridge faces outwardly when the tape cartridge is received in the carrier body and the engaging member is engageable with the front surface of the tape cartridge. 16. The system of claim 15 further comprising an electrically activated release apparatus associated with the engaging member for disengaging the engaging member from the tape cartridge. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the release apparatus comprises a solenoid. 18. The system of claim 16 wherein the release apparatus comprises a motor. 19. The system of claim 15 wherein the first tape library and the second tape library each include a pass-through port for receiving the cartridge carrier. 20. The system of claim 15 wherein the guide body includes first and second tracks, and the cartridge carrier is moveable along the tracks, and the transport assembly further includes a drive mechanism associated with the cartridge carrier for automatically moving the cartridge carrier along the tracks, and a switching mechanism associated with the guide body for allowing the cartridge carrier to switch between the first and second tracks. 