The invention relates to a method and a kit for the specific identification and/or quantification of one or several among at least 7 organisms or parts thereof, in a biological sample being possibly contaminated by at least 4 other organisms, by detecting at least one nucleotide sequence specific of each of the organisms possibly present in said biological sample, wherein said nucleotide sequence is homologous with at least 4 other nucleotide sequences. The method comprises the steps of: amplifying the nucleotide sequences specific of said organisms into target amplified nucleotide sequences using at least 2 different primer pairs, each one being capable of amplifying at least 4 of said homologous nucleotide sequences from other organisms and having an homology higher than 85% with each of the said amplified homologous nucleotide sequences to be amplified; providing an array onto which single-stranded capture nucleotide sequences are arranged at pre-determined locations, said single-stranded capture nucleotide sequences being covalently bound to an insoluble support, via a spacer which is at least 6.8 nm in length, and wherein said capture nucleotide sequences comprise a nucleotide sequence of about 10 to 50 bases which is able to specifically bind to one target amplified sequence without binding to said other amplified homologous nucleotide sequences and presenting an homology lower than 85% with the other capture nucleotide sequences of the said other amplified homologous sequences, contacting said target amplified sequences with the array in one solution under conditions allowing hybridization of the target amplified sequences to complementary capture nucleotide sequences present on the array; and detecting and quantifying signals present on specific locations on the array; wherein the intensities of the signals in specific locations allows identification of the organisms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for the identification and/or quantification of the presence of one or several among at least 7 organisms or part thereof in a biological sample, comprising the steps of: -amplifying a target nucleotide sequence specific for said organisms using at least 2 different primer pairs, each primer pair being capable of amplifying nucleotide sequences from at least 4 different organisms and having a nucleotide sequence homology higher than 85% with each of the specific nucleotide sequences to be amplified and wherein each primer of a pair is chosen in a sequence coding for a different protein; -providing an array onto which single-stranded capture nucleotide sequences are arranged at pre-determined locations at a density of at least 10 different capture nucleotide sequences/cm.sup.2, said single-stranded capture nucleotide sequences being covalently bound to an insoluble support via a spacer which is at least 20 nucleotides in length, and comprising a nucleotide sequence of about 10 to 50 bases specific for a given target sequence of a specific organism and showing a homology of less than 85% to the other capture nucleotide sequences; -contacting all of said target amplified sequences with the array in one solution under conditions allowing hybridization of the target amplified sequences to complementary capture nucleotide sequences present on the array; -detecting and quantifying signals present on specific locations on the array; wherein the intensities of the signals at specific locations allows identification and quantification of the presence in the biological sample of one or several among said at least 7 organisms. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said target amplified sequences present in said one solution are directly contacted with the array. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein each primer pair being used for the amplification of target nucleotide sequences are present in separate tubes. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least 2 different primer pairs being used for the amplification of target nucleotide sequences are present in the same tube. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the presence of one or several among at least 20 different organisms are identified and/or quantified. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the presence of one or several among at least 20 different organisms are identified in a biological sample by providing an array onto which single-stranded capture nucleotide sequences are arranged at pre-determined locations at a density of at least 20 different capture nucleotide seciuences/cm2, said capture nucleotide sequences being complementary to the target amplified sequences. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the two different primer pairs for the amplification of the nucleotide sequences specific for said organisms are chosen from sequences coding for proteins. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein a first primer of the primer pair is chosen in the Fus gene and a second primer in the rpsL gene. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein among the 2 different primer pairs, the first primer pair amplifies nucleotide sequences of the same organisms and the second primer pair are specific for nucleotide sequences from other target organisms. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein primers have sequences as provided in Tables 1A, 2A, 5,7,9 and 11. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the capture nucleotide sequences are complementary to a portion of the amplicons being located in a sequence non coding for a protein. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the capture nucleotide sequences present on the array have at least 5 sequences among the one provided in Tables 1B, 2B, 6, 8,10 and 12. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the capture nucleotide sequences for the identification of two target amplified sequences obtained with the same primer pair are located in at least two different positions of the amplicons. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the two positions are located in two different protein non coding sequences. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein organisms identified and/or quantified are bacteria and/or fungi. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the bacteria identified on the same array are both Gram+ and Gram- bacteria. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein one or several among at least 20 different bacteria and/or fungi species are identified on the same array comprising single-stranded capture nucleotide sequences arranged at pre-determined locations at a density of at least 20 different capture nucleotide sequences/cm2, said capture nucleotide sequences being complementary to the target amplified sequences. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the different bacteria and/or fungi identified on the same array are species found in nosocomial infection and are selected from the group consisting of P. aeruginosa, C. freundii, S. marcescens, H. influenzae, E. aerogenes. E. cloacae, E. coli, S. aureus, S. pneumoniae, S. oralis, E. faecium, E. faecalis. C. neoformans, P. stuartii, C. pneumoniae, P. vulgaris. P. mirabilis, M catarrhalis, M. tuberculosis, M. pneumoniae, B. cepacia, L. pneumoniae. A. calcoaceticus, S. maltophilia, K. pneumoniae, A. flavus, A. fumigatus. C. albicans and C. neoformans. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the identification and/or quantification of one organism is obtained by amplifying 2 different nucleotide sequences specific of said organism, hybridizing the 2 target amplified sequence to 2 complementary capture nucleotide sequences present on the array and detecting the signals present on 2 specific locations on the array. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the signals intensities in 2 specific locations of the array allows the identification of one organism. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the signals ratio in 2 specific locations of the array allows the identification of one organism. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the identification and/or quantification of one organism is obtained by amplifying 2 different nucleotide sequences specific for said organism with a first primer pair derived from within the Fus/rpsL genes and a second primer pair derived from within the gyrase A gene. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the array is present in a well of a multiwell plate. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the multiwell plate is compatible with 96 multiwell format comprisisng either 12, 24, 96, 384 or 1536 wells. 