A multiple orifice applicator system for dispensing a plurality of rows of fluid material onto a work piece is disclosed. A source of fluid material is in fluid communication with the multiple orifice applicator. The multiple orifice applicator is mounted to a robotic arm, which positions the multiple orifice applicator relative to the work piece to enable the multiple orifice applicator to dispense fluid material onto the work piece. Fluid material is caused to flow from the source of fluid material into the multiple orifice applicator. The fluid material enters the multiple orifice applicator through an inlet duct and is dispersed and spread out into at least one dispersing chamber. The fluid material is dispensed onto the work piece through a plurality of outlet orifices in the multiple orifice applicator.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A multiple orifice applicator for applying a fluid material to a work piece, comprising: an applicator body having an inlet port; a detachable applicator plate coupled to said applicator body, said applicator plate having a plurality of outlet orifices configured to dispense fluid material onto the work piece; at least two dispersing chambers providing a fluid flow path between said inlet port and at least two or more of said plurality of outlet orifices, wherein the cross-sectional area of said at least two dispersing chambers proximate said inlet port is smaller than the cross-sectional area of said at least two dispersing chambers proximate said outlet orifices, wherein said at least two dispersing chambers are partially disposed within said applicator plate and partially disposed in said applicator body; and a wall in said applicator plate that separates said at least two dispersing chambers, said wall having a top end and a bottom end that is narrower than said top end, a sealing member contacting said top end of said wall and said bottom end of said wall being proximate said outlet orifices of said applicator plate. 2. The multiple orifice applicator of claim 1, wherein said applicator body includes a groove around said at least two dispersing chambers, and said sealing member at least partially disposed in said groove and contacting said applicator plate. 3. The multiple orifice applicator of claim 1, wherein said applicator body includes a groove between said at least two dispersing chambers, and said sealing member at least partially disposed in said groove and contacting said applicator plate. 4. The multiple orifice applicator of claim 1, wherein said bottom end of said wall has an end tip that is narrower than a distance between said outlet orifices. 5. The multiple orifice applicator of claim 1, wherein said applicator body includes a groove extending around and between said at least two dispersing chambers, and said sealing member at least partially disposed in said groove and contacting said applicator plate. 6. The multiple orifice applicator of claim 5, wherein said sealing member is an elastomeric member. 7. The multiple orifice applicator of claim 1, wherein said at least one dispersing chambers includes at least one terraced shoulder. 8. A system for applying fluid material to a work piece, comprising: a source of fluid material; a multiple orifice applicator in fluid communication with said source of fluid material, said multiple orifice applicator comprising: an applicator body having an inlet port; a detachable applicator plate coupled to said applicator body, said applicator plate having a plurality of outlet orifices configured to dispense fluid material onto the work piece; at least two dispersing chambers providing a fluid flow path between said inlet port and at least two or more of said plurality of outlet orifices, wherein the cross-sectional area of said at least two dispersing chambers proximate said inlet port is smaller than the cross-sectional area of said at least two dispersing chambers proximate said outlet orifices, wherein said at least two dispersing chambers are partially disposed within said applicator plate and partially disposed in said applicator body, a wall in said applicator plate that separates said at least two dispersing chambers, said wall having a top end and a bottom end that is narrower than said top end, a sealing member contacting said top end of said wall and said bottom end of said wall being proximate said outlet orifices of said applicator plate; and a mechanism for controlling relative positioning of said multiple orifice applicator and the work piece. 9. A multiple orifice applicator for applying a fluid material to a work piece, comprising: an applicator body having an inlet port; a detachable applicator plate coupled to said applicator body, said applicator plate having a plurality of outlet orifices configured to dispense fluid material onto the work piece; at least two dispersing chambers providing a fluid flow path between said inlet port and at least two or more of said plurality of outlet orifices, wherein said at least two dispersing chambers are partially disposed within said applicator plate and partially disposed in said applicator body; and a wall in said applicator plate that separates said at least two dispersing chambers, said wall having a top end and a bottom end that is narrower than said top end, a sealing member contacting said top end of said wall and said bottom end of said wall being proximate said outlet orifices of said applicator plate. 10. The multiple orifice applicator of claim 9, wherein said applicator body includes a groove around said at least two dispersing chambers, and said sealing member at least partially disposed in said groove and contacting said applicator plate. 11. The multiple orifice applicator of claim 9, wherein said applicator body includes a groove between said at least two dispersing chambers, and said sealing member at least partially disposed in said groove and contacting said applicator plate. 12. The multiple orifice applicator of claim 9, wherein said bottom end of said wall has an end tip that is narrower than a distance between said outlet orifices. 13. The multiple orifice applicator of claim 9, wherein said applicator body includes a groove extending around and between said at least two dispersing chambers, and said sealing member at least partially disposed in said groove and contacting said applicator plate. 14. The multiple orifice applicator of claim 13, wherein said sealing member is an elastomeric member. 15. The multiple orifice applicator of claim 9, wherein said at least two dispersing chambers includes at least one terraced shoulder. 