The invention provides apoptosis signaling kinase related kinase (ASKRK) nucleic acid and polypeptide sequences and methods of using such sequences to identify modulators of ASKRK. Such modulators can be used for the treatment of diabetes or for delaying the onset of diabetes. The invention also provides methods of diagnosing diabetes or pre-diabetes and methods of making a prognosis based on the detection of ASKRK nucleic acids and proteins.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying an agent for treating a diabetic or pre-diabetic individual, the method comprising the steps of: (i) contacting a candidate agent with a polypeptide having phosphorylating activity, wherein the polypeptide is at least 1000 amino acids and comprises the kinase domain of SEQ ID NO: 2 and further domain of SEQ ID NO: 2 and further, wherein the polypeptide is encoded by a nucleic acid that hybridizes under stringent conditions to a nucleic acid comprising the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:1; wherein the stringent conditions are hybridization conditions in 50% formamide, 5.times.SSC, and 1% SDS, incubating at 42.degree. C., and wash in 0.2.times.SSC, and 0.1% SDS at 65.degree. C.; (ii) determining binding of the agent to the polypeptide; (iii) selecting an agent that binds to the polypeptide; (iv) administering the agent to a test population of pancreatic beta cells; (v) determining the cell number in the test population relative to a control population of pancreatic beta cells; and (vi) selecting an agent that increases cell number. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO:2. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining binding of the agent to the polypeptide comprises determining the phosphorylating activity of the polypeptide. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of administering the agent to the test population of pancreatic beta cells comprises administering the agent to pancreatic beta cell in vivo. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the agent is administered to a diabetic animal. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of administering the agent to the test population of pancreatic beta cells comprises administering the agent to pancreatic beta cell in vitro. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide comprises at least 1000 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:2. 