Laser processing methods, systems and apparatus having a super-modulating power supply or pumping subsystem and high beam quality (i.e., brightness) are disclosed. The methods, systems and apparatus have significant benefits, improved operation characteristics and material processing capability over currently available methods, systems and apparatus. In at least one embodiment, the beam quality of a high power solid state laser is improved in the presence of thermal lensing. High power laser cutting, scribing, and welding results are improved with a combination of modulation and high beam quality while providing for improved processing speeds.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for laser processing a workpiece using an optically pumped solid state laser apparatus having a rated CW output power of about 100 W or more, the method comprising: modulating an optical pump to directly generate a modulated laser output beam, wherein the step of modulating causes the pump to stimulate a waveguide, fiber, rod, or other solid state lasing element at a modulation frequency, the pump being controllable with a time varying electrical signal, and wherein output beam power varies at a frequency less than about 1.5 KHz in response to the time varying electrical signal; limiting at least one of diameter of the output beam and full angle beam divergence of the output beam to produce a beam quality of about 100 mm-mrad or better; focusing the output beam; and irradiating a surface of the workpiece with the focused output beam to modify a physical property of the workpiece. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the beam quality is about 32 mm-mrad or better. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output beam has a frequency in a range of about 100 Hz-1.5 KHz. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output beam is periodic. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output beam is approximately a square-wave or a sine-wave. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the laser apparatus is pumped by at least one of a lamp and one or more semiconductor laser diodes, and wherein the peak power of the output beam is greater than the rated CW output power. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processing comprises cutting a non-metallic workpiece. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the workpiece comprises a metal and wherein the processing comprises scribing. 9. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the laser apparatus is pumped by a lamp, and wherein the step of modulating includes applying an AC signal across the lamp. 10. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the solid state laser apparatus comprises a rod, and wherein the method further comprises transmitting a beam within a resonator through an aperture positioned within the resonator, the aperture being positioned immediately adjacent to the rod so that the beam quality is stabilized in the presence of a thermal lens effect. 11. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the modulated laser output beam is in the form of an envelope comprising first and second bursts of pulses within first and second envelope portions, respectively. 12. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of irradiating results in by-products which substantially shield the focused output beam, whereby power density at the workpiece is attenuated, the shielded output beam being reduced in a subsequent time interval, the method further comprising: preselecting at least one of a modulation frequency and a duty cycle based on a time interval corresponding to a reduction in output beam shielding. 13. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the laser apparatus is pumped by a lamp, and wherein the modulated output beam comprises: (a) a high power time interval wherein the peak power is greater than the rated CW power, and (b) a low power time interval wherein the peak power is less than the peak power during the high power time interval, wherein the step of irradiating irradiates the workpiece during the high power time interval and when shielding is reduced, whereby workpiece processing is improved relative to operation at the rated CW power. 14. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein a diameter of the focused output beam at the workpiece is in the range of about 0.05 mm to 1 mm. 15. A high speed method of cutting a semiconductor workpiece with a laser, the workpiece having a brittle characteristic and being susceptible to cracking when cut with a high energy laser beam, the method comprising: generating, through the use of a fiber, waveguide, rod, or other solid state lasing element, a modulated laser output beam having a frequency in the range of about 100 Hz to 1500 Hz, a maximum peak output power of about 1600 W over a focused spot having a size of about 0.05 mm to 0.3 mm, and a beam quality about 100 mm-mrad or better over the focused spot; and irradiating a surface of the workpiece with the spot during relative motion of the workpiece and the spot whereby cutting speed and edge quality of the cut workpiece is improved and undesirable microcracking of the cut workpiece is avoided. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the laser apparatus is pumped by at least one of a lamp and one or more semiconductor laser diodes, the laser has a rated CW power and the maximum peak output power exceeds the rated CW power. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the workpiece is made of a silicon material having a thickness of about 0.5 mm. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the peak output power is in the range of about 200 W-400 W and the beam quality is about 32 mm-mrad or better. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the cutting speed is greater than about 2 meters/minute. 20. A semiconductor device made by the cutting method of claim 15. 21. In a high power, solid state, laser-based processing system for welding, cutting, scribing, and the like, a workpiece, the method comprising: generating, through the use of a fiber, waveguide, rod, or other solid state lasing element, a modulated solid state laser output beam having at least one of a predetermined modulation frequency in a range of about 1 to about 1.5 KHz and duty cycle; focusing the laser output beam; irradiating a surface of the workpiece with the focused output beam to modify a physical property of the workpiece, wherein the step of irradiating results in by-products which substantially shield the focused output beam, whereby power density of the focused output beam at the workpiece is attenuated, wherein the shielded beam is reduced in a subsequent time interval and wherein the method further comprises preselecting at least one of the predetermined modulation frequency and the duty cycle based on a time interval corresponding to a reduction of shielding. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the laser apparatus is pumped by a lamp, and wherein the modulated output beam comprises: (a) a high power time interval wherein the peak power is greater than a rated CW power, and (b) a low power time interval wherein the peak power is less than the peak power during the high power time interval, and wherein the step of irradiating irradiates the workpiece during the high power time interval and when shielding is reduced, whereby workpiece processing is improved relative to operation at the rated CW power. 23. A solid state laser system for carrying out the method of claim 15. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the system includes a super-modulating power supply. 25. A solid state laser system for carrying out the method of claim 21. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the system includes a super-modulating power supply. 27. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the beam quality is a non-diffraction limited beam quality of 100 mm-mrad or better. 28. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein the beam quality is a non-diffraction limited beam quality of 100 mm-mrad or better. 29. A system for laser processing a workpiece using an optically pumped solid state laser apparatus having a rated CW output power of about 100 W or more, the system comprising: means for modulating an optical pump to directly generate a modulated laser output beam, wherein the means for modulating causes the pump to stimulate a waveguide, fiber, rod, or other solid state lasing element at a modulation frequency, the pump being controllable with a time varying electrical signal, and wherein output beam power varies at a frequency less than about 1.5 KHz in response to the time varying electrical signal; means for limiting at least one of diameter of the output beam and full angle beam divergence of the output beam to produce a beam quality of about 100 mm-mrad or better; and an optical subsystem for focusing the output beam and for irradiating a surface of the workpiece with the focused output beam to modify a physical property of the workpiece. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the beam quality is about 32mm-mrad or better. 31. The system as claimed in claim 29, wherein the output beam has a frequency in a range of about 100 Hz-1.5 KHz. 32. The system as claimed in claim 29, wherein the output beam is periodic. 33. The system as claimed in claim 29, wherein the output beam is approximately a square-wave or a sine-wave. 34. The system as claimed in claim 29, wherein the laser apparatus is pumped by at least one of a lamp and one or more semiconductor laser diodes, and wherein the peak power of the output beam is greater than the rated CW output power. 35. The system as claimed in claim 29, wherein the processing comprises cutting a non-metallic workpiece. 36. The system as claimed in claim 29, wherein the workpiece comprises a metal and wherein the processing comprises scribing. 37. The system as claimed in claim 29, wherein the laser apparatus is pumped by at least one of a lamp and one or more semiconductor laser diodes, and wherein the means for modulating includes means for applying an AC signal across the lamp. 38. The system as claimed in claim 29, wherein the solid state laser apparatus comprises a rod, and wherein the system further comprises means for transmitting a beam within a resonator through an aperture positioned within the resonator, the aperture being positioned immediately adjacent to the rod so that the beam quality is stabilized in the presence of a thermal lens effect. 39. The system as claimed in claim 29, wherein the modulated laser output beam is in the form of an envelope comprising first and second bursts of pulses within first and second envelope portions, respectively. 40. The system as claimed in claim 29, wherein irradiating results in by-products which substantially shield the focused output beam, whereby power density at the workpiece is attenuated, the shielded output beam being reduced in a subsequent time interval, the system further comprising: means for preselecting at least one a modulation frequency and duty cycle based on a time interval corresponding to a reduction in output beam shielding. 41. The system as claimed in claim 29, wherein the laser apparatus is pumped by at least one of a lamp and one or more semiconductor laser diodes, and wherein the modulated output beam comprises: (a) a high power time interval wherein the peak power is greater than the rated CW power; and (b) a low power time interval wherein the peak power is less than the peak power during the high power time interval, wherein the workpiece is irradiated during the high power time interval and when shielding is reduced, whereby workpiece processing is improved relative to operation at the rated CW power. 42. The system as claimed in claim 29, wherein a diameter of the focused output beam at the workpiece is in the range of about 0.05 mm to 1 mm. 