A method of characterizing the biological activity of a candidate compound may include exposing cells to the candidate compound, and then exposing the cells to a repetitive application of electric fields so as to set the transmembrane potential to a level corresponding to a pre-selected voltage dependent state of a target ion channel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of high throughput testing of the effect of one or more candidate compounds on biological cells, the method comprising: placing cells, solvent voltage sensitive chemical probes, and at least one candidate compound in each of a plurality of wells of a multiwell plate; repetitively exposing said cells to a series of two or more electric fields, wherein said electric fields are produced with electrodes positioned in the solvent in each of said plurality of individual wells, and wherein said electric fields effect a change in transmembrane potential of at least some of said one or more cells without using a patch clamp, wherein said transmembrane potential changes predominantly in a single direction away from a starting transmembrane potential over the course of said series of electric fields due to a continuing and additive accumulation of charge in said cells over the course of said series of electric fields; and monitoring, without using a patch clamp, changes in the transmembrane potential of cells in each of said plurality of wells by monitoring emission from said voltage sensitive chemical probes to test the effect of said one or more candidate compounds on said cells in a parallel assay high throughput manner. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said monitoring comprises detecting fluorescence emission from an area of observation containing said one or more cells. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said electric fields are biphasic. 4. The method of claim 3, additionally comprising limiting spatial variation in electric field intensity so as to minimize irreversible cell electroporation. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more electrical fields cause an ion channel of interest to cycle between different voltage dependent states. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said one or more electrical fields cause an ion channel of interest to open. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said one or more electrical fields cause an ion channel of interest to be released from inactivation. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said voltage sensitive chemical probes are selected from the group consisting of a FRET based voltage sensor, an electrochromic transmembrane potential dye, a transmembrane potential redistribution dye, an ion sensitive fluorescent or luminescent molecule and a radioactive ion. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said cells comprise a voltage regulated ion channel selected from the group consisting of a potassium channel, a calcium channel, a chloride channel and a sodium channel. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said electric field exhibits limited spatial variation in intensity in the area of observation of less than about 25% from a mean intensity in that area. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said two or more electrical fields varies over an area of observation by no more than about 15% from the mean electrical field at any one time. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said two or more electrical fields varies over an area of observation by no more than about 5% from the mean electrical field at any one time. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said two or more electrical fields comprises stimulation with either a square wave-form, a sinusoidal wave-form or a saw tooth wave-form. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said two or more electrical fields have an amplitude within the range of about 10 V/cm to about 100 V/cm. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said two or more electrical fields have an amplitude within the range of about 20 V/cm to about 80 V/cm. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said two or more electrical fields are repeated at a frequency of stimulation that is greater than or equal to the reciprocal of the transmembrane time constant of said one or more cells. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said two or more electrical fields are repeated at a frequency of stimulation within the range of zero to 1 kHz. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said two or more electrical fields have a pulse duration within the range of about 100 microseconds to about 20 milliseconds. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein said transmembrane potential is developed across the plasma membrane of said one or more cells. 20. A method of assaying the effect of a compound against a target voltage regulated ion channel, wherein said effect is manifested by transmembrane potential changes comprising: selecting a cell line having a normal resting transmembrane potential corresponding to a selected voltage dependent state of said target voltage regulated ion channel; expressing said target voltage regulated ion channel in a population of cells of said selected cell line; placing at least some of said cells, solvent, voltage sensitive fluorescent probes, and said compound in at least one well of a multiwell plate: repetitively exposing said cells to a series of two or more electric fields produced with said electrodes so as to effect a change in transmembrane potential of said cells, wherein said electric fields are produced with electrodes positioned in the solvent in said at least one well, and wherein said electric fields effect transmembrane potential changes predominantly in one direction away from a starting transmembrane potential over the course of said series of electric fields due to a continuing and additive accumulation of charge in said population of cells over the course of said series of electric fields; and monitoring changes in the transmembrane potential of said cells by monitoring fluorescence emission from said voltage sensitive fluorescent probes to characterize the effect of said compound in a parallel assay high throughput manner. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein said target voltage regulated ion channel is exogenously expressed in said cell line. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein said cell line is transfected with nucleic acid encoding said target voltage regulated ion channel. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein said cell line expresses substantially only said target voltage regulated ion channels. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein said cell line is selected from the group consisting of CHL, LTK(-), and CHO-K1. 25. The method of claim 20 wherein said target voltage regulated ion channel is a sodium channel, and wherein said population of cells is selected from the group consisting of CHL cells, LTK(-) cells, and CHO-K1 cells. 26. The method of claim 20 wherein said target voltage regulated ion channel is a sodium channel, and wherein said population of cells is selected from the group consisting of HEK-293 cells, RBL cells, F11 cells, and HL5 cells. 27. The method of claim 20 wherein said target voltage regulated ion channel is a potassium channel, and wherein said population of cells is selected from the group consisting of CHL cells, LTK(-) cells, and CHO-K1 cells. 28. The method of claim 20 wherein said target voltage regulated ion channel is a calcium channel, and wherein said population of cells is selected from the group consisting of CHL cells, LTK(-) cells, and CHO-K1 cells. 29. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising using said electric fields to maintain said transmembrane potential within a predefined range. 30. The method of claim 21, additionally comprising using said electric fields to maintain said transmembrane potential within a predefined range. 