A method for removing native oxides from a substrate surface is provided. In at least one embodiment, the method includes supporting the substrate surface in a vacuum chamber and generating reactive species from a gas mixture within the chamber. The substrate surface is then cooled within the chamber and the reactive species are directed to the cooled substrate surface to react with the native oxides thereon and form a film on the substrate surface. The substrate surface is then heated within the chamber to vaporize the film.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for removing native oxides from a substrate surface, comprising: supporting a substrate in a processing chamber; generating reactive species from a gas mixture within the processing chamber; cooling the substrate to a first temperature within the processing chamber; directing the reactive species to the cooled substrate to react with the native oxides thereon while forming a film on the substrate, wherein the reactive species are flowed through a gas distribution plate comprising a heating element coupled with the gas distribution plate; positioning the substrate in close proximity to the gas distribution plate; and heating the substrate to a second temperature of about 100.degree. C. or greater within the processing chamber to sublimate the film. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the gas distribution plate is heated to a temperature within a range from about 100.degree. C. and to about 150.degree. C. while heating the substrate within the processing chamber to sublimate the film. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing the sublimated film from the chamber. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the film comprises a material comprising nitrogen and fluorine atoms. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein cooling the substrate comprises flowing a coolant through a support assembly having the substrate disposed thereon and maintaining the first temperature at about room temperature or less. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first temperature is at about 22.degree. C. or less. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein heating the substrate comprises positioning the substrate adjacent a heated gas distribution plate disposed within the processing chamber. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the second temperature is at about 120.degree. C. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the substrate is located within a range from about 10 mils and to about 200 mils from the heated gas distribution plate. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the gas mixture comprises ammonia and nitrogen fluoride. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the gas mixture further comprises a carrier gas. 12. The method of claim 2, wherein the substrate is located within a range from about 10 mils to about 200 mils from the heated gas distribution plate. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the gas mixture comprises at least a 3 to 1 molar ratio of ammonia to nitrogen trifluoride. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the molar ratio of ammonia to nitrogen trifluoride is within a range from about 10:1 to about 20:1. 15. A method for removing native oxides from a substrate surface within a processing chamber, comprising: generating a plasma of reactive species in a first section of the processing chamber; cooling the substrate having the native oxides thereon to a first temperature in a second section of the processing chamber; flowing the reactive species from the first section to the second section to react with the cooled substrate and forming a film thereon, wherein the reactive species is flowed through a gas distribution plate; heating the gas distribution plate; moving the substrate to a third section of the chamber; and heating the substrate to a second temperature within a range from about 100.degree. C. to 150.degree. C. in the third section of the chamber to sublimate the film. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the substrate is located within a range from about 10 mils to about 200 mils from the heated gas distribution plate. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein cooling the substrate comprises flowing a coolant through a support assembly having the substrate disposed thereon. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the first temperature is at about 22.degree. C. or less. 19. A method for removing native oxides from a substrate within a processing chamber, comprising: cooling the substrate to a first temperature at about 22.degree. C. or less; generating a plasma of reactive species comprising nitrogen and fluorine atoms; flowing the plasma of reactive species through a gas distribution plate; exposing the substrate to the reactive species and forming a film comprising the nitrogen and fluorine atoms on the cooled substrate; and annealing the substrate at a second temperature of about 100.degree. C. or greater to sublimate the film. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the gas distribution plate is heated to a temperature within a range from about 100.degree. C. to about 150.degree. C. while heating the substrate within the chamber to sublimate the film. 