An ink jet cartridge comprising a housing having a print head portion including a nozzle plate having opposed pairs of side edges, rows of nozzles and at least one row of slots between said rows of nozzles and which plate is initially attached to the head portion by beads of an adhesive material overlying the edges of one pair of the opposed pairs of side edges is prepared for renovation by applying a reinforcing bead of an adhesive material to overlie at least one of the other pair of the opposed pairs of side edges and the at least one row of slots. The beads may be a single bead or segmented and are applied by robotic glue applying apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ink jet cartridge comprising: a housing having a print head portion including a nozzle plate having opposed pairs of outer side edges and rows of nozzles, said nozzle plate being attached to said head portion by a first set of beads of an adhesive material overlying the outer edges of one pair of said opposed pairs of side edges, a second set of beads of an adhesive material overlying the other pair of said opposed pairs of outer side edges, wherein each of said first set and second set of beads have an overlap inwardly of a corresponding outer side edge of said nozzle plate and said first and second set of beads penetrate downwardly between corresponding outer edges of said nozzle plate. 2. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 1, wherein said beads includes at least a single bead of said adhesive material overlying each edge of said other pair of edges between said one pair of opposed edges. 3. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 2, wherein each bead of adhesive has a thickness of 0.250 mm. 4. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 2, wherein each bead overlies the corresponding edge 0.250 mm. 5. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 4, wherein each bead of adhesive has a thickness of 0.250 mm. 6. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 1, wherein said second set of beads includes a plurality of beads of said adhesive material overlying each edge of said other pair of edges between said one pair of opposed edges. 7. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 6, wherein each of said plurality of beads has a thickness of 0.250 mm. 8. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 6, wherein each of said plurality of beads overlies the corresponding edge 0.250 mm. 9. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 8, wherein each of said plurality of beads has a thickness of 0.250 mm. 10. An ink jet cartridge comprising: a housing having a print head portion including a nozzle plate having opposed pairs of side edges, rows of nozzles and at least one row of slots between said rows of nozzles, said nozzle plate being attached to said head portion by a first set of beads of an adhesive material overlying the edges of one pair of said opposed pairs of side edges, and a second set of beads including a reinforcing bead of an adhesive material overlying at least one of the other pair of said opposed pairs of side edges and covering at least one row of slots. 11. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 10, wherein the reinforcing bead overlies said at least one row of slots. 12. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 11, wherein said reinforcing bead includes a single bead of said adhesive material overlying said at least one row of slots. 13. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 12, wherein said single bead has a thickness of 0.250 mm. 14. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 11, wherein said reinforcing bead includes a plurality of beads of said adhesive overlying said at least one row of slots. 15. The ink jet cartridge according to claim 14, wherein each of said plurality of beads has a thickness of 0.250 mm. 16. A method of preparing an ink jet cartridge for renovation, said cartridge having a housing including a print head portion and a nozzle plate adhered to the print head portion by a first set of beads of an adhesive material along one pair of two pairs of opposed side edges of the nozzle plate, said method including applying a second set of beads of an adhesive material to overlie the other of the two pairs of opposed side edges of the nozzle plate wherein each of said first set and said second set of beads have an overlap inwardly of a corresponding edge of outer edge of said nozzle plate, and said first and second set of beads penetrate downwardly between corresponding edges of said nozzle plate. 17. The method according to claim 16, and applying the second set of beads as at least a single bead overlying each edge of said other of the two pairs of opposed side edges. 18. The method according to claim 17, and applying each bead to have a thickness of 0.250 mm. 19. The method according to claim 17, and applying each bead to overlie the corresponding edge 0.250 mm. 20. The method according to claim 16, and applying the reinforcing bead as a plurality of beads overlying each edge of said other of the two pairs of opposed side edges. 21. The method according to claim 20, and applying each of said plurality of beads to have a thickness of 0.250 mm. 22. The method according to claim 20, and applying each of said plurality of beads to overlie the corresponding edge 0.250 mm. 23. The method according to claim 16, wherein the adhesive has a viscosity of from 500 to 6000 cp. 24. The method according to claim 16, and applying the adhesive at a pressure of from 12 to 15 psi. 25. A method of preparing an ink jet cartridge for renovation, said cartridge having a housing including a print head portion and a nozzle plate adhered to the print head portion by a first set of beads of an adhesive material along one pair of two pairs of opposed side edges of the nozzle plate, said nozzle plate having at least one row of slots between said rows of nozzles, said method including applying a second set of reinforcing beads of an adhesive material to overlie at least one of the other of the two pairs of opposed side edges of the nozzle plate and to cover said at least one row of slots. 26. The method according to claim 25, and applying the reinforcing beads to overlie said at least one row of slots. 27. The method according to claim 26, and applying the second set of reinforcing beads as at least a single bead overlying said at least one row of slots. 28. The method according to claim 27, and applying said single bead to have a thickness of 0.250 mm. 29. The method according to claim 26, and applying the reinforcing bead as a plurality of beads overlying said at least one row or slots. 30. The method according to claim 29, and applying each of said plurality of beads to have a thickness of 0.250 mm. 31. The method according to claim 26, wherein said adhesive has a viscosity of from 1 to 150 cp. 32. The method according to claim 25, and applying the adhesive at a pressure of from 12 to 15 psi. 