Methods and systems for monitoring semiconductor fabrication processes are provided. A system may include a stage configured to support a specimen and coupled to a measurement device. The measurement device may include an illumination system and a detection system. The illumination system and the detection system may be configured such that the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of the specimen. For example, the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of a specimen including, but not limited to, a property of a specimen prior to, during, or subsequent to lithography. In this manner, a measurement device may perform multiple optical and/or non-optical metrology and/or inspection techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system configured to determine at least one property of a specimen during use, comprising: a lithography track configured to perform one or more steps of a lithography process on the specimen during use; a spectroscopic ellipsometer coupled to the lithography track, wherein the spectroscopic ellipsometer is configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to the at least one property of the specimen during use, wherein the lithography track comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during at least one of the one or more steps, and wherein an upper surface of the support device is substantially perpendicular to an upper surface of a stage coupled to the spectroscopic ellipsometer; and a processor coupled to the spectroscopic ellipsometer, wherein the processor is configured to determine the at least one property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use. 2. A system configured to determine at least one property of a specimen during use, comprising: a lithography track configured to perform one or more steps of a lithography process on the specimen during use; a spectroscopic ellipsometer coupled to the lithography track, wherein the spectroscopic ellipsometer is configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to the at least one property of the specimen during use, wherein the lithography track comprises a first process chamber and a second process chamber, wherein a stage coupled to the spectroscopic ellipsometer is configured to move the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber during use, and wherein the spectroscopic ellipsometer is further configured to generate the one or more output signals as the stage is moving the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber; and a processor coupled to the spectroscopic ellipsometer, wherein the processor is configured to determine the at least one property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the first process chamber is configured to chill the specimen during use, and wherein the second process chamber is configured to apply resist to the specimen during use. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the first process chamber is configured to chill the specimen subsequent to a post apply bake process step during use, and wherein the second process chamber is configured to expose the specimen during use. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein the first process chamber is configured to expose the specimen during use, and wherein the second process chamber is configured to bake the specimen subsequent to exposure of the specimen during use. 6. The system of claim 2, wherein the first process chamber is configured to chill the specimen subsequent to a post exposure bake process step during use, and wherein the second process chamber is configured to develop the specimen during use. 7. The system of claim 2, wherein the first process chamber is configured to develop the specimen during use, and wherein the second process chamber is configured to bake the specimen subsequent to a develop process step during use. 8. The system of claim 2, wherein the first process chamber is configured to develop the specimen during use, and wherein the second process chamber is configured to receive the specimen in a wafer cassette during use. 9. A system configured to determine at least one property of a specimen during use, comprising: a lithography track configured to perform one or more steps of a lithography process on the specimen during use; a spectroscopic ellipsometer coupled to the lithography track, wherein the spectroscopic ellipsometer is configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to the at least one property of the specimen during use; and a processor coupled to the spectroscopic ellipsometer, wherein the processor is configured to determine the at least one property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a sampling frequency of the spectroscopic ellipsometer in response to the at least one property during use. 