A bead dispensing system is provided for delivering small amounts of substances onto substrates. The system can include, for example, a movable support structure having an array of spaced-apart projections depending from its lower side. An attraction source, such as a vacuum, magnetic, and/or electrostatic force, is operable at each projection end region to attract and retain one bead. The projection array can be aligned with an array of bead-receiving regions of a substrate, e.g., an array of spaced-apart wells of a micro-plate or card. In one embodiment, a plurality of reagent-carrying beads are picked up, retained at respective projection end regions, and moved to a location over a multi-well plate. The beads are then released in a fashion permitting each bead to land in a respective well. The system of the invention is particularly useful for fabricating arrays of reagents.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for biological reactions, comprising: a substrate-holding area; a substrate comprising a top surface and a flat bottom, disposed in a seated position on said substrate-holding area; an array of wells formed in said top surface of said substrate; one or more components for real-time fluorescence-based measurements of nucleic acid amplification products held in at least some of said wells; and a vacuum source disposed for communication with said substrate-holding area, whereby a vacuum can be established reaching to, and drawing upon, said flat bottom of said substrate, thereby maintaining the substrate in said seated position, wherein said vacuum does not communicate through said substrate. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a film disposed on said substrate, over said array of wells. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said film is optically clear. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a passageway, said passageway communicating said vacuum source and said substrate-holding area. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said substrate comprises a micro-plate or card. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said components for real time fluorescence-based measurements of nucleic acid amplification products comprise at least a probe and primers. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an excitation beam adapted for optical communication with said components for real time fluorescence-based measurements of nucleic acid amplification products. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the substrate-holding area includes indexing features for facilitating alignment of said substrate thereon. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said indexing features include indexing bores. 10. A method for biological reactions, comprising: providing a substrate comprising a top surface including an array of wells and a flat bottom surface; providing one or more components for real-time fluorescence-based measurements of nucleic acid amplification products in at least some of said wells; placing said substrate on a substrate-holding area; and establishing a vacuum reaching to, and drawing upon, said flat bottom surface of said substrate, thereby maintaining the substrate on said substrate-holding area, wherein said vacuum does not communicate through said substrate. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising directing an excitation beam into each of a plurality of fluorescent mixtures separately contained in said array of wells. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising monitoring, in real time, the progress of each reaction. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said monitoring includes measuring the fluorescence intensity from each of said fluorescent mixtures. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein said substrate comprises a high density micro-plate or card. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein said substrate comprises a bore and a slot. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said substrate comprises a high density micro-plate or card. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said substrate comprises a bore and a slot. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the substrate has no through holes between any of the wells of the array of wells. 19. The method of claim 10, wherein the substrate has no through holes between any of the wells of the array of wells. 20. The method of claim 10, wherein the components provided in at least some of the wells comprise at least an analyte-specific detection reagent and primers. 