Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase-2. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase-2. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase-2 expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase-2 are provided.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An antisense compound 12 to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase-2, wherein said antisense compound is fully complementary to at least an 8-nucleobase portion of nucleotides 541-600 of SEQ ID NO: 3. 2. The antisense compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense compound comprises an antisense oligonucleotide. 3. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The antisense compound of claim 3 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 6. The antisense compound of claim 5 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 7. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 8. The antisense compound of claim 7 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 9. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises a gap segment of 2'-deoxynucleotides positioned between wing segments of 2'-modified nucleotides. 10. The antisense compound of claim 9, wherein each 2'-modified nucleotide is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleotide. 11. The antisense compound of claim 9, wherein the gap segment comprises ten 2'-deoxynucleotides and each wing segment comprises five 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleotides. 12. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein the 8-nucleobase portion comprises at least 8 linked nucleobases. 13. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein the antisense compound is 20 nucleobases in length. 14. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein the antisense compound is fully complementary to SEQ ID NO: 3. 15. A composition comprising the antisense compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 16. The composition of claim 15 wherein the antisense compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 17. The antisense compound of claim 3 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises a gap segment of 2'-deoxynucleotides positioned between wing segments of 2'-modified nucleotides. 18. The antisense compound of claim 17, wherein each 2'-modified nucleotide is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleotide. 19. The antisense compound of claim 17, wherein the gap segment comprises ten 2'-deoxynucleotides and each wing segment comprises five 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleotides. 20. The antisense compound of claim 19, wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 21. The antisense compound of claim 20, wherein the antisense compound comprises at least one cytosine, wherein said cytosine is 5-methyl cytosine. 22. The antisense compound of claim 21, wherein each cytosine is a 5-methyl cytosine. 23. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein the nucleobases consist of those set forth in SEQ ID NO: 25. 24. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein the nucleobases consist of those set forth in SEQ ID NO: 26. 25. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein the nucleobases consist of those set forth in SEQ ID NO: 27. 