A device for powering a load from an ambient source of energy is provided. The device includes an energy harvesting device for harvesting energy from the ambient source of energy wherein the rate energy is harvested from the ambient source of energy is below that required for directly powering the load. A storage device is connected to the energy harvesting device. The storage device receives electrical energy from the energy harvesting device and is for storing the electrical energy. A controller is connected to the storage device for monitoring the amount of electrical energy stored in the storage device and for switchably connecting the storage device to the load when the stored energy exceeds a first threshold. The system can be used for powering a sensor and for transmitting sensor data, such as tire pressure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for measuring a parameter of a moving part, comprising: a moving part; an energy harvesting device mounted on and moving with said moving part, wherein said energy harvesting device harvests mechanical energy from movement of said moving part and converts said mechanical energy into electrical energy; a sensor mounted on and moving with said moving part, wherein said sensor measures a parameter of said moving part; a non-volatile memory device mounted on and moving with said moving part, wherein said non-volatile memory device is connected for recording sensor data; and a transmitter mounted on and moving with said moving part, wherein said transmitter is connected for transmitting at least one from the group consisting of said data and information derived from said data, wherein said transmitter is powered by energy derived from said energy harvesting device. 2. A system as recited in claim 1, wherein said energy harvesting device is capable of harvesting energy from rotation of said moving part. 3. A system as recited in claim 2, wherein said energy harvesting device further comprises a rechargeable source of power configured to receive and store energy harvested by said energy harvesting device. 4. A system as recited in claim 3, wherein said rechargeable source of power comprises at least one from the group including a battery and a capacitor. 5. A system as recited in claim 1, wherein said sensor comprises at least one from the group including a temperature sensor, a strain sensor, and a sensor to measure rate of rotation. 6. A system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a receiver mounted on said moving part. 7. A system as recited in claim 6, wherein said transmitter and said receiver comprise a transceiver. 8. A system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a processor mounted on said moving part. 9. A system as recited in claim 8, further comprising an A/D converter for converting sensor data to digital data. 10. A system as recited in claim 9, wherein said nonvolatile memory is connected for storing said digital sensor data. 11. A system as recited in claim 10, wherein said nonvolatile memory is at least one from the group consisting of integral with and connected to said processor. 12. A system as recited in claim 10, wherein said nonvolatile memory contains a unique address to identify data transmitted by said transmitter. 13. A system as recited in claim 8, wherein said processor contains a program to process said data before transmitting. 14. A system as recited in claim 8, wherein said processor controls operation of said transmitter. 15. A system as recited in claim 1, wherein said moving part comprises at least one from the group including a tire, a machine, an engine, an engine mount, a shaft, a propeller drive shaft element, a turbine engine component, and a structural support element. 16. A system as recited in claim 1, wherein said energy harvesting device is capable of harvesting mechanical energy from vibration of said moving part. 17. A system as recited in claim 1, wherein said energy harvesting device is capable of harvesting strain energy from said moving part. 18. A system as recited in claim 17, wherein said energy harvesting device is capable of harvesting mechanical energy from bending of said moving part. 19. A system for measuring a parameter of a moving part, comprising: a moving part; an energy harvesting device mounted on said moving part, wherein said energy harvesting device harvests strain energy from said moving part and converts said strain energy into electrical energy; a sensor mounted on said moving part, wherein said sensor measures a parameter of said moving part; a non-volatile memory device mounted on said moving part, wherein said non-volatile memory device is connected for recording sensor data; and a transmitter mounted on said moving part, wherein said transmitter is is connected for transmitting at least one from the group consisting of said data and information derived from said data, wherein said transmitter is powered by energy derived from said device for harvesting strain energy. 20. A system as recited in claim 19, wherein said energy harvesting device is capable of harvesting strain energy from rotation of said moving part. 21. A system as recited in claim 19, wherein said energy harvesting device further comprises a rechargeable source of power configured to receive and store energy harvested by said energy harvesting device. 22. A system as recited in claim 21, wherein said rechargeable source of power comprises at least one from the group including a battery and a capacitor. 23. A system as recited in claim 19, wherein said sensor comprises at least one from the group including a temperature sensor, a strain sensor, and a sensor to measure rate of rotation. 24. A system as recited in claim 19, further comprising a receiver mounted on said moving part. 25. A system as recited in claim 24, wherein said transmitter and said receiver comprise a transceiver. 26. A system as recited in claim 19, further comprising a processor mounted on said moving part. 27. A system as recited in claim 26, further comprising an A/D converter for converting sensor data to digital data. 28. A system as recited in claim 27, wherein said nonvolatile memory is connected for storing said digital sensor data. 29. A system as recited in claim 28, wherein said nonvolatile memory is at least one from the group consisting of integral with and connected to said processor. 30. A system as recited in claim 28, wherein said nonvolatile memory contains a unique address to identify data transmitted by said transmitter. 31. A system as recited in claim 26, wherein said processor contains a program to process said data before transmitting. 32. A system as recited in claim 26, wherein said processor controls operation of said transmitter. 33. A system as recited in claim 19, wherein said moving part comprises at least one from the group including a tire, a machine, an engine, an engine mount, a shaft, a propeller drive shaft element, a turbine engine component and a structural support element. 34. A system for measuring a parameter of a tire, comprising: a tire; a device for harvesting strain energy mounted on said tire, wherein said device is mounted to harvest strain energy from flexing of said tire and wherein said device converts said strain energy into electrical energy; a sensor mounted on said tire, wherein said sensor measures a parameter of said tire; a non-volatile memory device mounted on said tire, wherein said non-volatile memory device is connected for recording sensor data; and a transmitter mounted on said tire connected, wherein said transmitter is connected for transmitting at least one from the group consisting of said data and information derived from said data, wherein said transmitter is powered by energy derived from said device for harvesting strain energy. 35. A system as recited in claim 34, wherein said a device for harvesting strain energy harvests energy from flexing of said tire as said tire rotates. 36. A system as recited in claim 34, wherein said device for harvesting strain energy further comprises a rechargeable source of power configured to receive and store energy harvested by said device for harvesting strain energy. 37. A system as recited in claim 36, wherein said rechargeable source of power comprises at least one from the group including a battery and a capacitor. 38. A system as recited in claim 34, wherein said sensor comprises at least one from the group including a temperature sensor and a pressure sensor. 39. A system as recited in claim 34, further comprising a receiver mounted on said tire. 40. A system as recited in claim 39, wherein said transmitter and said receiver comprise a transceiver. 41. A system as recited in claim 34, further comprising a processor mounted on said tire. 42. A system as recited in claim 41, further comprising an A/D converter for converting sensor data to digital data. 43. A system as recited in claim 42, wherein said nonvolatile memory is connected for storing said digital sensor data. 44. A system as recited in claim 43, wherein said nonvolatile memory is at least one from the group consisting of integral with and connected to said processor. 45. A system as recited in claim 43, wherein said nonvolatile memory contains a unique address to identify data transmitted by said transmitter. 46. A system as recited in claim 41, wherein said processor contains a program to process said data before transmitting. 47. A system as recited in claim 41, wherein said processor controls operation of said transmitter. 48. A system as recited in claim 34, further comprising a feedback mechanism mounted on said tire for adjusting operation of said tire based on said data. 