A suspension arm for an optical transducer comprises a load beam, a slider coupled to the load beam by a gimbal assembly and including an optical transducer positioned adjacent to an end of the slider facing a pivot point of the suspension arm, and an optical fiber for transmitting light toward the transducer, wherein an end of the optical fiber is positioned adjacent to the transducer such that light emitted from the fiber passes directly to the transducer. Disc drives that include the suspension arm, and a method of transmitting light to an optical transducer, are also included.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a load beam; a slider coupled to the load beam by a gimbal assembly and including an optical transducer positioned adjacent to an end of the slider facing a pivot point of the suspension arm; and an optical fiber for transmitting light toward the transducer, wherein an end of the optical fiber is positioned adjacent to the transducer such that light emitted from the fiber passes directly to the transducer. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical fiber is mounted along a center of the load beam. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a mounting structure for adjusting the position of the end of the optical fiber. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the mounting structure includes one or more welds. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the mounting structure includes one or more deformable struts. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a mounting block connected to the load beam, wherein the optical fiber is mounted to the mounting block. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a load/unload tab. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a flex on suspension including a planar sheet mounted on the load beam, wherein the optical fiber is mounted to the planar sheet. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a flex on suspension including first and second planar sheets mounted on the load beam on opposite sides of the optical fiber. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical transducer includes a planar waveguide and a grating for coupling light from the optical fiber to the planar waveguide. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a reference object for positioning the end of the optical fiber. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the reference object comprises: a second slider coupled to the optical fiber. 13. An apparatus comprising: a motor for rotating a storage medium; and a suspension arm for positioning an optical transducer adjacent to a surface of the storage medium, wherein the includes a load beam, a slider coupled to the load beam by a gimbal assembly and including an optical transducer positioned adjacent to an end of the slider facing a pivot point of the suspension arm, and an optical fiber for transmitting light toward the transducer, wherein an end of the optical fiber is positioned adjacent to the transducer such that light emitted from the fiber passes directly to the transducer. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the optical fiber is mounted along a center of the load beam. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a mounting structure for adjusting the position of the end of the optical fiber. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the mounting structure includes one or more welds. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the mounting structure includes one or more deformable struts. 18. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a mounting block connected to the load beam, wherein the optical fiber is mounted to the mounting block. 19. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a flex on suspension including a planar sheet mounted on the load beam, wherein the optical fiber is mounted to the planar sheet. 20. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a flex on suspension including first and second planar sheets mounted on the load beam on opposite sides of the optical fiber. 21. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the optical transducer includes a planar waveguide and a grating for coupling light from the optical fiber to the planar waveguide. 22. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: a reference object for positioning the end of the optical fiber. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the reference object comprises: a second slider coupled to the optical fiber. 24. A method comprising: coupling a slider to a load beam by a gimbal assembly, wherein the slider includes an optical transducer positioned adjacent to an end of the slider facing a pivot point of a suspension arm; and transmitting light toward the transducer using an optical fiber, wherein an end of the optical fiber is positioned adjacent to the transducer such that light emitted from the fiber passes directly to the transducer. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising: adjusting alignment of the optical fiber and the optical transducer in response to light reflected from a storage medium. 