A portable robotic system having a folding carriage is disclosed. The carriage in one embodiment includes two legs and a lateral stabilizer. The folding legs and stabilizer allow the carriage to be maneuvered into a plurality of open and closed positions. In the open positions, the legs and stabilizer are spaced apart to support the robotic system during operation. In the closed positions, the legs and stabilizer and substantially parallel to one another. In one closed position with one leg or stabilizer extended to within reach of a person, the carriage may be rolled like a dolly. In another closed position with one leg or stabilizer collapsed against the carriage, the carriage may be carried like a suitcase. Methods of folding and transporting a robotic system and carriage are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A portable robot, comprising: a trunk; at least three legs supporting said trunk above a surface, each of said at least three legs including one or more contact elements positioned to engage said surface; and at least one motorized drive assembly connected to selectively drive a particular one of said one or more contact elements such that said portable robot is selectively propelled across said supporting surface, said drive assembly including a disengaging mechanism configured to selectively release said particular contact elements such that said particular contact element moves substantially freely, wherein at least one of said legs is foldable with respect to said trunk from: (1) a station-keeping position wherein said robot is substantially supported by said at least three legs with respect to said surface to (2) at least one closed position. 2. The portable robot of claim 1, wherein said at least one closed position is characterized by said one or more movable legs being positioned near a plane generally parallel to the plane occupied by the other legs of said at least three legs. 3. The portable robot of claim 1, wherein said at least one closed position is characterized by a portion of said one or more movable legs being positioned within a reach envelope of a person, said reach envelope approximating a space above said surface in which an object may be grasped by a person standing on said surface. 4. A portable robot, comprising: a trunk; at least three legs supporting said trunk above a surface, each of said at least three legs including one or more contact elements positioned to engage said surface; and at least one motorized drive assembly connected to selectively drive one of said one or more contact elements, said drive assembly including a disengaging means for releasing said one of said one or more contact elements such that it moves freely, wherein one or more movable lees selected from said at least three legs is foldable with respect to said trunk from a station-keeping position wherein said robot is substantially balanced with respect to said surface to at least one closed position; and wherein said one or more movable legs further comprises a pull, and wherein said at least one closed position is characterized by said pull being positioned within a reach envelope of a person, said reach envelope approximating a space above said surface in which an object may be grasped. 5. The portable robot of claim 1, further comprising: a locking pivot assembly for releasably securing said one or more movable legs in said station-keeping position. 6. The portable robot of claim 1, further comprising: a locking pivot assembly for releasably securing said one or more movable legs in said at least one closed position. 7. The portable robot of claim 1, wherein said trunk is pivotably connected to said at least three legs such that said trunk rotates from an expanded position to a collapsed position, said collapsed position characterized by said trunk being positioned near a plane generally parallel to the plane occupied by at least one of said at least three legs. 8. The portable robot of claim 1, wherein said trunk comprises: a plurality of segments pivotably connected such that said segments rotate with respect to one another from an expanded position to a collapsed position, said collapsed position characterized by each of said plurality of segments being positioned near a plane generally parallel to the plane occupied by at least one of said at least three legs. 9. The portable robot of claim 1, further comprising: one or more servomotors configured to move said one or more segments of said trunk. 10. The portable robot of claim 1, further comprising: an onboard computer programmed to control said one or more servomotors and said at least one motorized drive assembly. 11. The portable robot of claim 1, further comprising: a console having a top wall and one or more side walls, said console sized and shaped to house an onboard computer. 12. The portable robot of claim 1, wherein said at least three legs comprises a first leg, a second leg, and a lateral stabilizer for balancing said robot with respect to said surface. 13. The portable robot of claim 1, wherein said one or more contact elements comprise one or more elements selected from the group consisting of a wheel, a roller, a skid, a caster, a ball caster, a caterpillar track, a ski, and a knob. 14. A portable robot, comprising: a trunk; at least three legs supporting said trunk above a surface, each of said at least three legs including one or more contact elements positioned to engage said surface, wherein at least one of said legs is foldable with respect to said trunk from: (1) a station-keeping position wherein said robot is substantially supported by said at least three legs with respect to said surface to (2) at least one closed position; a locking pivot assembly for releasably securing said one or more movable legs in said station-keeping position, and for releasably securing said one or more movable legs in said at least one closed position; and at least one motorized drive assembly connected to selectively drive a particular one of said one or more contact elements such that said portable robot is selectively propelled across said supporting surface, said drive assembly including a disengaging mechanism configured to selectively release said particular contact elements such that said particular contact element moves substantially freely along said supporting surface while at least partially supporting said trunk. 15. The portable robot of claim 14, wherein said at least one closed position is characterized by said one or more movable legs being positioned near a plane generally parallel to the plane occupied by the other legs of said at least three legs. 16. The portable robot of claim 14, wherein said at least one closed position is characterized by a portion of said one or more movable legs being positioned within a reach envelope of a person, said reach envelope approximating a space above said surface in which an object may be grasped. 17. A portable robot, comprising: a trunk; at least three legs supporting said trunk above a surface, each of said at least three legs including one or more contact elements positioned to engage said surface, wherein one or more movable lees selected from said at least three legs is foldable with respect to said trunk from a station-keeping position wherein said robot is substantially balanced with respect to said surface to at least one closed position; a locking pivot assembly for releasably securing said one or more movable legs in said station-keeping position, and for releasably securing said one or more movable legs in said at least one closed position; and at least one motorized drive assembly connected to selectively drive one of said one or more contact elements, said drive assembly including a disengaging means for releasing said one of said one or more contact elements such that it moves freely; and wherein said one or more movable legs further comprises a pull, and wherein said at least one closed position is characterized by said pull being positioned within a reach envelope of a person, said reach envelope approximating a space above said surface in which an object may be grasped. 18. The portable robot of claim 14, wherein said trunk is pivotably connected to said at least three legs such that said trunk rotates from an expanded position to a collapsed position, said collapsed position characterized by said trunk being positioned near a plane generally parallel to the plane occupied by at least one of said at least three legs. 19. The portable robot of claim 14, wherein said trunk comprises: a plurality of segments pivotably connected such that said segments rotate with respect to one another from an expanded position to a collapsed position, said collapsed position characterized by each of said plurality of segments being positioned near a plane generally parallel to the plane occupied by at least one of said at least three legs. 20. The portable robot of claim 14, further comprising: one or more servomotors configured to move said one or more segments of said trunk. 21. The portable robot of claim 14, further comprising: an onboard computer programmed to control said one or more servomotors and said at least one motorized drive assembly. 22. The portable robot of claim 14, further comprising: a console having a top wall and one or more side walls, said console sized and shaped to house an onboard computer. 23. The portable robot of claim 14, wherein said at least three legs comprises a first leg, a second leg, and a lateral stabilizer for balancing said robot with respect to said surface. 24. The portable robot of claim 14, wherein said one or more contact elements comprise one or more elements selected from the group consisting of a wheel, a roller, a skid, a caster, a ball caster, a caterpillar track, a ski, and a knob. 25. A portable robot for transporting a payload over a surface, said robot comprising: a trunk configured to support said payload; a first leg having a proximal end attached adjacent said trunk and an opposing distal end; a first contact element disposed proximate said distal end of said first leg and configured to contact said surface; a second leg having a proximal end pivotably attached relative to said trunk and an opposing distal end, wherein said second leg is configured to pivot relative to said trunk and to be releaseably locked into one of a plurality of positions; a second contact element disposed proximate said distal end of said second leg and configured to contact said surface, wherein one of said plurality of locked positions is characterized by said second contact element being within a reach envelop; and a motorized assembly configured to drive said first contact element or said second contact element over said surface. 26. The robot of claim 25 further comprising: a lateral stabilizer having a proximal end attached to said lateral stabilizer and a opposing distal end; and a third contact element disposed proximate said distal end of said lateral stabilizer and configured to contact said surface. 