Apparatus for a CMM Arm with Exoskeleton is provided comprising an Internal CMM Arm with a base end and a probe end, and an Exoskeleton driving the Internal CMM Arm through a plurality of transmissions. One or more contact probes, optical probes and tools are mounted on the probe end. The CMM Arm with Exoskeleton is provided in manually operable and automated embodiments. The CMM Arm with Exoskeleton is operable for accurate measurement or for performing accurate operations. Methods are provided for operation of the CMM Arm with Exoskeleton.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a movable member having a base end, an opposing probe end and three or more segments separated by two or more rotational axes of movement between said base end and said probe end wherein at least two of the said rotational axes of movement are not parallel; a continuous movable position reporting device having a base end, an opposing probe end and three or more stiff segments connected in tandem by mechanical joints, separated by two or more rotational axes of movement between said base end and said probe end wherein at least two of the said rotational axes of movement are not parallel; a transmission in contact with both said movable member and said movable position reporting device, wherein the contact of said transmission with said movable member is located anywhere between said probe end and the rotational axis of movement closest to said base end; such that movement of said movable member causes movement of said movable position reporting device; wherein said transmission comprises a plurality of discrete transmissions and at least one of said discrete transmissions is not rigid. 2. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said transmission is located between the probe end segment of the movable member and the probe end segment of the movable position reporting device. 3. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein all said discrete transmissions are not rigid. 4. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein at least one of said discrete transmissions is rigid. 5. Apparatus in accordance with claim 4 wherein the number of said not rigid discrete transmissions between said movable member and said movable position reporting device is three. 6. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said transmission comprises a continuous transmission. 7. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said base end of said movable member and said base end of said movable position reporting device are rigidly attached. 8. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 in which the number of axes of movement in said movable position reporting device is 6. 9. Apparatus in accordance with claim 8 wherein the types of said 6 axes of movement in said movable position reporting device listed from said base end to said probe end is AOAOAO where A is an axial axis of movement and O is an orthogonal axis of movement. 10. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 in which the number of axes of movement in said movable position reporting device is 7. 11. Apparatus in accordance with claim 10 wherein the types of said 7 axes of movement in said movable position reporting device listed from said base end to said probe end is AOAOAOA where A is an axial axis of movement and O is an orthogonal axis of movement. 12. Apparatus in accordance with claim 10 wherein the groupings of said axes of movement in said movable position reporting device listed in order of shoulder, elbow and wrist is 2-2-3. 13. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said movable member and said movable position reporting device have the same number of segments and axes of movement. 14. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said movable member and said movable position reporting device are approximately coaxial and have similar segment lengths, similar axis orientations and similar centers of axis movement. 15. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said movable member is exterior to said movable position reporting device. 16. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said movable member is a robot. 17. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein said movable position reporting device is a CMM arm. 18. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 that further comprises a controller for causing said probe end of said movable member to move in relation to said base end of said movable member. 19. Apparatus in accordance with claim 18 that comprises a single unit and is portable. 20. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising one or more probes disposed on said movable position reporting device for collecting probe data. 21. Apparatus in accordance with claim 20 wherein any of said one or more probes is a stripe probe. 22. Apparatus in accordance with claim 20 wherein any of said one or more probes is an area probe. 23. Apparatus in accordance with claim 20 wherein any of said one or more probes is a touch trigger probe. 24. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a probe cover attached to said movable member. 25. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising one or more tools disposed on said movable position reporting device for performing an operation. 26. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising one or more tools disposed on said movable member for performing an operation. 27. Apparatus in accordance with claim 4 wherein said movable member and said movable position reporting device both have eight segments, and said not rigid discrete transmissions are located: on the base end side of the segment closest the probe end; on the base end side of the third segment from the probe end; and on the base end side of fifth segment from the probe end. 28. A method for positioning a continuous movable position reporting device with a probe disposed on said movable position reporting device for determining data of an object comprising the following steps: a controller causes a motor to generate a driving torque; said driving torque is applied to a movable member resulting in movement of said movable member; said movable member causes movement of said transmission; said transmission causes a force to be applied on a rigid part of said movable position reporting device resulting in movement of said movable position reporting device; said probe collects data of said object; a data processor receives a position from said movable position reporting device; said data processor receives said data from said probe; wherein said movable position reporting device has a plurality of segments connected in tandem by mechanical joints, and wherein said transmission comprises a plurality of discrete transmissions and at least one of said discrete transmissions is not rigid. 29. A method for automatically positioning a continuous movable position reporting device comprising the following steps: a controller causes a motor to generate a driving torque; said driving torque is applied to a movable member resulting in movement of said movable member; said movable member causes movement of said transmission; said transmission causes a force to be applied on a rigid part of said movable position reporting device resulting in movement of said movable position reporting device; wherein said movable member and said movable position reporting device both have a base end, an opposing probe end and three or more segments connected in tandem by mechanical joints, separated by two or more rotational axes of movement between said base end and said probe end wherein at least two of the said rotational axes of movement are not parallel wherein the contact location of said transmission with said movable member is anywhere between said probe end and the rotational axis of movement closest to said base end and wherein said transmission comprises a plurality of discrete transmissions and at least one of said discrete transmissions is not rigid. 