A substrate storage container comprises: a container casing having an aperture through which a plurality of substrates are placed in or taken out; a cover adapted to fit into the aperture of the container casing; a sealing gasket capable of elastic deformation provided between the container casing and the cover; and a retainer, mounted on the cover, capable of retaining the periphery of the substrates. The retainer has: a supporting body mounted on the inside face of the cover; a plurality of elastic pieces provided in elastically deformable fashion on the supporting body; and a block provided on each of the elastic pieces, the block retaining the periphery of one of the substrates. A relation 10.8.times.w<y<34.3.times.w is satisfied when a substrate retaining force of each of the elastic pieces is y [unit: N] and a weight per the substrate is w [unit: kg].
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate storage container comprising: a container casing having an aperture through which a plurality of substrates are placed in or taken out; a cover adapted to fit into said aperture of said container casing; a sealing gasket capable of elastic deformation provided between said container casing and said cover; and a retainer, mounted on said cover, capable of retaining the periphery of each of the substrates; said retainer having: a supporting body mounted on the inside face of said cover, wherein the supporting body comprises a pair of first bars positioned on opposing sides with a separation therebetween and a pair of second bars respectively spanning a space between upper and lower end portions of said first bars; a plurality of elastic pieces provided with a separation therebetween in elastically deformable fashion on said supporting body so as to extend between said first bars; a slit formed at each side of each of said plurality of elastic pieces; and a block provided on each of said elastic pieces, said block retaining the periphery of one of the substrates; wherein 10.8.times.w<y<34.3.times.w when a substrate retaining force of each of said elastic pieces is y in Newtons (N) and a weight per said substrate is w in kilograms (kg). 2. The substrate storage container according to claim 1, wherein the substrates are silicon wafers of diameter 300 mm; said container casing comprises a top wall, a bottom wall, a pair of side walls, and a rear face wall; and said substrate retaining force of each of said elastic pieces when the maximum number of the silicon wafers is stored in said container casing is in a range of 1.3 to 4.5 N. 3. The substrate storage container according to claim 1, wherein the substrates are silicon wafers of diameter 300 mm; said container casing comprises a top wall, a bottom wall, a pair of side walls, and a rear face wall; and a pressing force of said cover when the maximum number of the silicon wafers are stored in said container casing and said aperture of said container casing is closed by said cover is in a range of 30 to 112.5 N. 4. The substrate storage container according to claim 3, wherein said pressing force of said cover is in a range of 40 to 80 N. 5. The substrate storage container according to claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of elastic pieces comprises: an intermediate element; and a pair of side elements formed between said first bars and said intermediate element; wherein said block comprises: a guided block provided on each of said side elements and comprising a guide groove for guiding one of the substrates and a position locating groove that positionally locates the one of the substrates provided at the bottom of said guide groove; and a guide block provided on said intermediate element and comprising a guide groove for guiding the one of the substrates. 6. The substrate storage container according to claim 5, wherein said guide block projects further towards said container casing than said guided blocks. 7. The substrate storage container according to claim 5, wherein a maximum width of said guide groove of said guide block is larger than a maximum width of said guide groove of said guided block. 8. The substrate storage container according to claim 5, wherein a center angle made by the pair of opposite inside faces constituting said guide groove of said guide block is 45.degree. to 60.degree.. 9. The substrate storage container according to claim 5, wherein a center angle made by the pair of opposite inside faces constituting said guide groove of said guide block is 45.degree. to 60 .degree. and a center angle made by the pair of opposite inside faces constituting said position locating groove is 10.degree. to 40.degree.. 10. A substrate storage container comprising: a container casing having an aperture through which a plurality of substrates are placed in or taken out; a cover adapted to fit into said aperture of said container casing; a sealing gasket capable of elastic deformation provided between said container casing and said cover; and a retainer, mounted on said cover, capable of retaining the periphery of each of the substrates; wherein said container casing comprises a top wall, a bottom wall, a pair of side walls, and a rear face wall, and a supporting wall is provided on the inside of each of said side walls, and a plurality of teeth that support the substrates are provided arranged in a row in the vertical direction on the inside face of each of said supporting walls; and each of said teeth comprises: a flat plate running along the lateral periphery of one of the substrates; a front medium thickness region formed on the inside at the front of said flat plate; a front increased thickness region of thickness greater than that of said front medium thickness region, formed at the front outside of said flat plate and positioned on the outside of said front medium thickness region; a rear medium thickness region formed at the rear of said flat plate; and a step provided between said front medium thickness region and said front increased thickness region; and wherein each of said teeth can support one of the substrates substantially horizontally in said front medium thickness region and said rear medium thickness region. 11. The substrate storage container according to claim 10, wherein said sealing gasket comprises: an endless body that fits into a recess of said cover periphery; a bent piece projecting in an obliquely outwards direction from said endless body and capable of bending contacting said aperture of said container casing; and a projection that is formed on said endless body and that contacts said recess of said cover periphery. 12. The substrate storage container according to claim 10, wherein each of said teeth comprises a reduced thickness region of thickness smaller than that of said front medium thickness region and said rear medium thickness region, provided on said flat plate between said front medium thickness region and said rear medium thickness region. 13. The substrate storage container according to claim 10, wherein said retainer comprises: a support body mounted on the inside face of said cover, a plurality of elastic pieces provided in elastically deformable fashion on said support body, and a block provided on each of said elastic pieces, said block retaining the periphery of one of the substrates; wherein 10.8.times.w<y<34.3.times.w when a substrate retaining force of each of said elastic pieces is y in Newtons (N) and a weight per said substrate is w in kilograms (kg). 14. A substrate storage container comprising: a container casing having an aperture through which a plurality of substrates are placed in or taken out; a cover adapted to fit into said aperture of said container casing; a sealing gasket capable of elastic deformation provided between said container casing and said cover; and a retainer, mounted on said cover, capable of retaining the periphery of each of the substrates; said cover having: a fitting plate including a protruding pedestal provided in the central section and a pair of installation spaces provided on both sides of said protruding pedestal; a latch mechanism provided in each of said installation spaces; and a cover plate capable of detachably covering said latch mechanism; said retainer having: a supporting body mounted on the inside face of said cover, wherein the supporting body comprises a pair of first bars positioned on opposing sides with a separation therebetween and a pair of second bars respectively spanning a space between the upper and lower end portions of said first bars; a plurality of elastic pieces provided with a separation therebetween in elastically deformable fashion on said supporting body so as to extend between said first bars; a slit formed at each side of each of said plurality of elastic pieces; and a block provided on each of said elastic pieces, said block retaining the periphery of one of the substrates; wherein 10.8.times.w<y<34.3.times.w when a substrate retaining force of each of said elastic pieces is y in Newtons (N) and a weight per said substrate is w in kilograms (kg). 