Devices and methods for performing assays on materials, particularly biological materials, are provided. The devices and methods make use of self-sealing members, which can be applied to a flat surface to form wells to facilitate immobilization of materials on the flat surface, then removed to yield a flat surface that facilitates thc performance of processes on and/or detection of the immobilized material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of measuring enzyme activity, comprising: providing a base plate having a mating side; treating the base plate with a solution of mixed self-assembled monolayer (SAM) comprising about 0.1 to 20% maleimide-terminal groups in a background of tri(ethylene glycol) terminal groups: providing a removable member having a first sealable surface and a second sealable surface and defining at least one orifice extending between the first sealable surface and the second sealable surface; reversibly sealing the first sealable surface of the removable member to the mating side of the base plate; adding at least one biological material to the at least one orifice for immobilizing the at least one biological material on the base plate; exposing the at least one biological material to at least one reagent via the at least one orifice wherein the reagent contains an enzyme; and measuring a level of activity of the at least one reagent by measuring changes in the at least one biological material. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one orifice comprises a plurality of orifices; and wherein adding comprises adding at least one biological material to the plurality of orifices for immobilizing the at least one biological material on the base plate to form biological material pattern on the base plate. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with a solution of mixed self-assembled monolayer (SAM), such that binding of the at least one biological material is enhanced in discrete areas of the base plate and reduced or eliminated in other areas of the base plate. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with a solution of mixed SAM, such that specific binding of the at least one biological material in desired orientations is enhanced and non-specific binding of the at least one biological material is reduced or eliminated. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the biological material pattern corresponds to a pattern of wells in a standard micro-titer plate. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the biological material pattern corresponds to a pattern of wells in a standard micro-titer plate having one of 96 wells, 384 wells, and 1536 wells. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein adding at least one biological material comprises adding a single species of biological material to each of the plurality of orifices. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one biological material comprises a plurality of species of biological materials. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring comprises detecting the biological material immobilized on the base plate using a device selected from the group consisting of: surface plasma resonance sensors, Matrix assisted laser desorbtion ionization, flat-bed scanners, microscope based confocal scanners, atomic force microscopes, or scanning electron microscopes. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein simultaneously performing includes developing the array of biological material. 11. A method of measuring enzyme activity, comprising: providing a base plate having a flat mating side; treating the base plate with a solution of mixed self-assembled monolayer (SAM) comprising about 0.1 to 20% maleimide-terminal groups in a background of tri(ethylene glycol) terminal groups; providing a removable member having a first sealable surface and a second sealable surface and defining a plurality of orifices extending between the first sealable surface and the second sealable surface thereof; reversibly sealing the first sealable surface of the removable member to the mating side of the base plate; adding at least one biological material to the plurality of orifices for immobilizing the at least one biological material on the base plate thereby forming an array of biological material on the base plate; removing the removable member from the base plate to expose the flat mating side of the base plate free of adhesives; simultaneously performing at least one bulk process on the array of biological material on the base plate; and detecting the immobilized biological material. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein simultaneously performing includes washing the array of biological material on the base plate. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein simultaneously performing includes incubating the array of biological material on the base plate with a reagent. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein simultaneously performing includes fixing the array of biological material on the base plate. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising processing the biological material prior to immobilizing. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein detecting comprises using a device selected from the group consisting of: surface plasma resonance sensors, Matrix assisted laser desorbtion ionization, flat-bed scanners, microscope based confocal scanners, atomic force microscopes, or scanning electron microscopes. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein the removable member is a first removable member, and the plurality of orifices is a plurality of first orifices, the method further comprising: providing a second removable member having a first sealable surface and a second sealable surface and defining a plurality of second orifices extending between the first sealable surface and the second sealable surface thereof; and reversibly sealing the first sealable surface of the second removable member to the mating side of the base plate such that the array of biological material is within the plurality of second orifices. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein simultaneously performing and detecting comprise simultaneously performing and detecting when the array of biological material in within the plurality of second orifices. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein the array of biological material pattern corresponds to a pattern of wells in a standard micro-titer plate. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the biological material corresponds to a pattern of wells in a standard micro-titer plate having one of 96 wells, 384 wells, and 1536 wells. 21. The method of claim 11, wherein the biological material comprises a plurality of species of biological materials. 22. The method of claim 11, wherein adding comprises adding a single species of biological material to each of the plurality of first orifices. 23. A method of measuring enzyme activity, comprising: providing a base plate having a flat mating side; treating first mating side of base plate with a solution of self-assembled monolayer (SAM) comprising about 0.1 to 20% maleimide-terminal groups in a background of tri(ethylene glycol) terminal groups; providing a removable member having a first sealable surface and a second sealable surface and defining a plurality of orifices extending between the first sealable surface and the second sealable surface thereof; reversibly sealing the first sealable surface of the removable member to the mating side of the base plate; adding at least one biological material to the plurality of orifices for immobilizing the at least one biological material on the base plate thereby forming an array of biological material on the base plate; exposing the at least one biological material to at least one reagent via the plurality of orifices; removing the removable member from the base plate to expose the flat mating side of the base plate free of adhesives; and detecting the immobilized biological material. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with a solution of mixed self-assembled monolayer (SAM), such that binding of the at least one biological material is enhanced in discrete areas of the base plate and reduced or eliminated in other areas of the base plate. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with a solution of mixed SAM, such that specific binding of the at least one biological material in desired orientations is enhanced and non-specific binding of the at least one biological material is reduced or eliminated. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the array biological material corresponds to a pattern of wells in a standard micro-titer plate. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the biological material pattern corresponds to a pattern of wells in a standard micro-titer plate having one of 96 wells, 384 wells, and 1536 wells. 28. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one biological material comprises a plurality of species of biological materials. 29. The method of claim 23, wherein adding at least one biological material comprises adding a single species of biological material to each of the plurality of orifices. 30. The method of claim 23, wherein detecting using a device selected from the group consisting of: surface plasma resonance sensors, Matrix assisted laser desorbtion ionization, flat-bed scanners, microscope based confocal scanners, atomic force microscopes, or scanning electron microscopes. 