A system and method for reducing the number of input/output connections required to connect a microfluidic substrate to an external controller for controlling the substrate. In one example, a microfluidic processing device is fabricated on a substrate having a plurality of N independently controllable components, (e.g., a resistive heating elements) each having at least two terminals. The substrate includes a plurality of input/output contacts for connecting the substrate to an external controller, and a plurality of leads for connecting the contacts to the terminals of the components. The leads are arranged to allow the external controller to supply control signals to the terminals of the components via the contacts using substantially fewer contacts than the total number of component terminals. For example, in one embodiment, each lead connects a corresponding contact to a plurality of terminals to allow the controller to supply to signals to the terminals without requiring a separate contact for each terminal. However, to assure that the components can each be controlled independently of the others, the leads are also arranged so that each component's terminals are connected to a unique combination of contacts. Thus, the external controller can activate a selected component by supplying control signals to the combination of contacts uniquely associated with that component.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A micro-fluidic processing device fabricated on a substrate comprising: a plurality of N independently controllable components, each having at least two terminals, a plurality of input/output contacts for connecting said substrate to an external controller, and a plurality of leads for connecting said contacts to said terminals wherein the terminals of each said component are connected to a unique combination of contact, whereby the number of contacts required to independently control said N components is substantially less than the total number of terminals without requiring a separate lead for each said terminal, and wherein said controller can thereby control each said component independently of each other component. 2. The microfluidic device of claim 1 wherein each said lead connects a corresponding contact to a plurality of terminals to allow said controller to provide signals to said terminals without requiring a separate contact for each terminal. 3. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 2, wherein the number of contacts is related to the number of said components by the formula, 2ÃN. 4. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 1, wherein the component is a resistive heating element. 5. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 1, wherein the component is a resistive sensing element. 6. The microfluidic processing device of claim 1 wherein at least one of said independently controllable components comprises a plurality of sub-components that are all activated by said external controller using the unique combination of contacts associated with said at least one independently controllable component. 7. A method for fabricating a microfluidic processing device comprising: providing a substrate having a plurality of components each having at least two terminals; providing a plurality of input/output contacts for connecting said substrate to an external controller; and providing a plurality of leads for connecting said contacts to said terminals wherein the terminals of each said component are connected to a unique combination of contact, whereby the number of contacts required to independently control said N components is substantially less than the total number of terminals without requiring a separate lead for each said terminals, and wherein said controller can thereby control each said component independently of each other component. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein each lead connects a corresponding contact to a plurality of said terminals. 9. A method according to claim 7, wherein the number of contacts is related to the number of said components by the formula, 2ÃN. 10. A method according to claim 7, wherein the component is a resistive heating element. 11. The method according to claim 7 wherein at least one of said independently controllable components comprises a plurality of sub-components that are all activated by said external controller using the unique combination of contacts associated with said at least one independently controllable component. 12. A method according to claim 7, wherein the component is a resistive sensing element. 