A teleoperator system with telepresence is shown which includes right and left hand controllers (72R and 72L) for control of right and left manipulators (24R and 24L) through use of a servomechanism that includes computer (42). Cameras (46R and 46L) view workspace (30) from different angles for production of stereoscopic signal outputs at lines (48R and 48L). In response to the camera outputs a 3-dimensional top-to-bottom inverted image (30I) is produced which, is reflected by mirror (66) toward the eyes of operator (18). A virtual image (30V) is produced adjacent control arms (76R and 76L) which is viewed by operator (18) looking in the direction of the control arms. By locating the workspace image (30V) adjacent the control arms (76R and 76L) the operator is provided with a sense that end effectors (40R and 40L) carried by manipulator arms (34R and 34L) and control arms (76R and 76L) are substantially integral. This sense of connection between the control arms (76R and 76L) and end effectors (40R and 40L) provide the operator with the sensation of directly controlling the end effectors by hand. By locating visual display (246) adjacent control arms (244R and 244L) image (240I) of the workspace is directly viewable by the operator. (FIGS. 12 and 13.) Use of the teleoperator system for surgical procedures also is disclosed. (FIGS. 7-9 and FIG. 13.)
Claims I claim: 1. A system for allowing a surgeon to control a surgical instrument that is inserted through an incision of a patient, wherein a pivot point is disposed at the incision, comprising: a manipulator arm holding the surgical instrument, the arm having a driven joint and an actuator for spinning the surgical instrument; a first input device for receiving an input command from the surgeon; and a computer for receiving said input command, for computing a movement of said arm based on said input command, for providing an output command to actuate said driven joint and said actuator, and for moving the surgical instrument about the pivot point, wherein the surgical instrument has an elongate shaft, a wrist joint, and an end effector, the shaft having a proximal end adjacent the arm, the wrist pivotably coupling a distal end of the shaft to the end effector, wherein the computer moves the end effector by pivoting the shaft forearm about the pivot point and by pivoting of the wrist within the patient. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the end effector has an actuation joint, wherein the computer effects actuation of the actuation joint of the end effector. 3. A method for operating a surgical robotic system for performing a surgical procedure on a patient, the method comprising: 1) providing a first articulate arm, a computer and an input device which receives input commands, the first arm in communication with the computer and the computer in communication with the input device; 2) forming at least one incision into the patient; 3) attaching a surgical instrument to the first arm; 4) inserting said surgical instrument into the patient through the at least one incision; and 5) generating a computed movement of the articulate arm with the computer in response to the input commands, wherein a pivot point is located at the incision; 6) moving the surgical instrument about the pivot point in response to the input commands by actuating a driven joint of the articulate arm, and by spinning the surgical instrument with an actuator of the articulate arm, and 7) moving an end effector of the surgical instrument by articulating a wrist of the surgical instrument within the patient in response to the input commands, and actuating an actuation joint of the end effector within the patient in response to the input commands. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said surgical instrument is a grasper. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the surgical instrument is an electrosurgical coagulator. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein the surgical instrument is a blade. 