An apparatus and method directed to a solid-state capacitance sensor for measuring a strain force on a dielectric having a corresponding dielectric constant includes at least one pair of electrodes disposed so as to interface with the dielectric. The sensor preferably includes a measuring circuit coupled to the electrodes to measure a change in the dielectric constant in response to the force. In operation, the change in the dielectric constant is caused by an electrostrictive response of the dielectric upon deformation. Preferably, the response is quantified by computing a change in the dielectric constant based on a measured change in capacitance. The electrodes may be fixed to the dielectric, and the measuring circuit determines the change in the dielectric constant by measuring a change in capacitance between the pair of electrodes and then computing the change in the dielectric constant. The force can then be computed based on both the change in dielectric constant and the electrostriction parameters associated with the dielectric.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A solid-state sensor comprising: a dielectric material defining an effective dielectric constant; at least one pair of electrodes disposed so as to interface with said dielectric; and wherein an effective dielectric constant changes in response to a deformation of said dielectric material, and wherein an amount of the change in said dielectric constant is indicative of an amount of the deformation such that the sensor is self-sensing; and, the amount of deformation is based substantially only on the change in said dielectric constant. 2. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said electrodes are fixed and mechanically decoupled from the dielectric such that said electrodes do not move in response to the deformation and corresponding deformation of said dielectric material. 3. The sensor of claim 2, wherein the sensor is a single-sided device. 4. The sensor of claim 2, wherein the dielectric material is anisotropic. 5. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said electrodes are displaced upon deformation of the dielectric. 6. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the dielectric material is anisotropic. 7. The sensor of claim 6, wherein the dielectric is a composite with particulate phase defining a chain-like structure. 8. The sensor of claim 7, wherein the particles have an oblate or prolate shape and are oriented in a particular direction. 9. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said dielectric material is elastic or viscoelastic. 10. The sensor of claim 9, wherein the dielectric is one of a group consisting of: a liquid viscoelastic material polymer melt, a solution including biological or polymeric macromolecules, concentrated suspension. 11. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the sensor can measure strain/stress in any direction. 12. The sensor of claim 11, wherein the dielectric material is anisotropic and defines a plurality of regions, and wherein at least two of the regions have a different anisotropy. 13. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said electrodes are mounted to a single surface. 14. A method of measuring strain comprising: providing a dielectric having a dielectric constant; providing at least two electrodes disposed so as to interface the dielectric; measuring an amount of a change in capacitance across the electrodes based only on a deformation of the dielectric; and wherein the dielectric exhibits an electrostrictive effect in response to the deformation and the change is caused only by the electrostrictive effect such that the sensor is self-sensing; and, the amount of deformation is based substantially only on the change in said dielectric constant. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the dielectric comprising a stand-alone sensor. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the dielectric comprising a member in which strain/stress is measured. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the deformation is one of a group including a normal deformation and a shear deformation. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the dielectric is anisotropic. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the dielectric is tuned to have a chain-like structure. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the dielectric is tuned to have constituent particles having an oblate or prolate shape oriented in a selected direction. 21. The method of claim 14, wherein said measuring step includes determining a change in the dielectric constant of the dielectric. 22. The method of claim 21, further including the step of computing the strain/stress force based on the change in the dielectric constant and electrostriction parameters associated with the dielectric. 23. A solid-state capacitance sensor for measuring a strain/stress force on a dielectric having a corresponding dielectric constant, the sensor comprising: at least one pair of electrodes disposed adjacent to the dielectric; a measuring circuit coupled to said electrodes to determine an amount of a change in the dielectric constant in response to the strain/stress force; and wherein the change in the dielectric is caused by an electrostrictive response of the dielectric to the strain/stress force, and wherein the measured strain/stress force is based only on the electrostrictive response of the dielectric and is generally independent of a spacing between said electrodes. 24. The sensor of claim 23, wherein the dielectric is anisotropic. 25. The sensor of claim 24, wherein the dielectric includes a chain-like structure. 26. The sensor of claim 23, wherein said electrodes are fixed to the dielectric. 27. The sensor of claim 23, wherein said electrodes are fixed and mechanically decoupled from the dielectric. 28. The sensor of claim 23, wherein the sensor is a one-sided device. 29. The sensor of claim 23, wherein said measuring circuit determines the change in the dielectric constant by measuring a change in capacitance between said pair of electrodes. 30. The sensor of claim 29, wherein the strain/stress force is determined based on the change in the dielectric constant and electrostriction parameters associated with the dielectric. 31. A method of sensing a strain/stress force comprising: providing at least one pair of electrodes separated by a selected distance; positioning the electrodes so that the electrodes are in generally continuous contact with a dielectric having an associated dielectric constant; measuring a change in capacitance between the pair of electrodes; and determining the strain/stress force by only computing a change in the dielectric constant based on the change in capacitance such that the sensor is self-sensing; and, the amount of deformation is based substantially only on the change in said dielectric constant. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein said determining step includes computing the strain/stress force based on the change in the dielectric constant and electrostriction parameters associated with the dielectric. 