A sensor device, for diagnosing a processing system, generally includes a support platform and one or more sensors mounted on the support platform. The sensor senses a condition, such as direction or inclination or acceleration in one or two axes, of the sensor device and outputs a signal indicative thereof, which is then sent to a transmitter, also mounted to the support platform, for wireless transmission of the signal to a receiver mounted on or near the processing system. The support platform generally has physical characteristics, such as size, profile height, mass, flexibility and/or strength, substantially similar to those of the substrates that are to be processed in the processing system, so the sensor device can be transferred through the processing system in a manner similar to the manner in which production substrates are transferred through the processing system.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for providing information from within a processing system, the apparatus comprising: a support platform adapted for robotic transfer between a central transfer chamber and a substrate support structure in a vacuum processing chamber of the processing system a transmitter coupled to the support platform and adapted to broadcast a wireless signal indicative of information obtained from within the processing system; and a device disposed on the support platform and coupled to the transmitter, the device for obtaining information from within the processing system, wherein the device provides optical information. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support platform and the transmitter are sized to pass through a slit valve separating the central transfer chamber and the processing chamber. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the information provided by the device is indicative of the position of the support platform within the processing system. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a battery disposed on the support platform and coupled to the transmitter. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the apparatus is sized to pass through a slit valve separating the central transfer chamber and the processing chamber. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the battery is configured to be rechargeable. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a receiver disposed remotely from the support platform for receiving the wireless signal from the transmitter. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the receiver is disposed outside the processing system. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the receiver is mounted to an exterior of the processing system. 10. An apparatus for providing information from within a processing system, the apparatus comprising: a support platform having a shape suitable for transporting on a blade of a robotic substrate handler configured to move semiconductor substrates within a central transfer chamber and one or more processing chambers of the processing system; a device disposed on the support platform for obtaining information from within the processing system, wherein the device provides optical information; and a transmitter coupled to the platform and adapted to broadcast a wireless signal indicative of information obtained from the device. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the information provided by the device is indicative of the position of the support platform within the processing system. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising: a receiver disposed remotely from the support platform for receiving the wireless signal from the transmitter. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising: a battery disposed on the support platform and coupled to the transmitter. 14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the apparatus is sized to pass through one or more slit valves separating the central transfer chamber and the one or more processing chambers. 15. An apparatus for providing information from within a processing system, the apparatus comprising: a support platform adapted for robotic transfer between a central transfer chamber and a substrate support structure in a vacuum processing chamber of the processing system; and a transmitter coupled to the support platform and adapted to broadcast a wireless signal indicative of information obtained from within the processing system wherein the transmitter is configured to optically transmit the wireless signal. 16. An apparatus for providing information from within a processing system, the apparatus comprising: a support platform adapted for robotic transport between a central transfer chamber and at least one processing chamber; a temperature sensor disposed on the support platform wherein the temperature sensor measures a temperature of a process gas within the at least one processing chamber; and a transmitter disposed on the support platform and coupled to the temperature sensor. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the apparatus is sized to pass through a slit valve separating the central transfer chamber and the at least one processing chamber. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: a battery disposed on the support platform and coupled to the transmitter. 19. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: a receiver disposed remotely from the support platform for receiving a signal from the transmitter. 20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the transmitter is configured to transmit an optical signal indicative of temperature information. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the transmitter is configured to transmit the optical signal in an infrared bandwidth. 22. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the temperature sensor is a temperature probe configured to detect a thermal gradient across the length of the probe for determining uniformity of the process gas distribution within the at least one processing chamber. 23. An apparatus for providing information from within a processing system, the apparatus comprising: a support platform having a shape suitable for transporting on a blade of a robotic substrate handler configured to move semiconductor substrates between a central transfer chamber and a substrate support structure in one or more processing chambers of the processing system; one or more temperature sensors disposed on the support platform for obtaining temperature information from within the processing system, wherein the one or more temperature sensors is a temperature probe having an array of temperature sensors configured to detect a thermal gradient across the length of the probe; a transmitter coupled to the support platform and adapted to provide a wireless signal indicative of information obtained from the one or more temperature sensors; and a battery disposed on the support platform and coupled to the transmitter. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the transmitter is an optical transmitter or a RF based transmitter. 25. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising: a receiver disposed outside the central transfer chamber and/or the one or more processing chambers and adapted to receive signals from the transmitter. 26. An apparatus for providing information obtained within a processing system, the apparatus comprising: a support platform adapted for robotic transfer within the processing system; and at least one sensor coupled to the support platform and adapted to sense a condition within the processing system, wherein the sensor provides a metric indicative of motion of the support platform within the processing system. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the support platform and the sensor are sized to pass through a slit valve separating two chambers of the processing system. 28. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising a transmitter disposed on the support platform and coupled to the sensor. 29. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising a battery disposed on the support platform. 30. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising a receiver for accepting data acquired by the sensor. 31. An apparatus for providing information from within a processing system, the apparatus comprising: a support platform adapted for robotic transport between a central transfer chamber and at least one processing chamber; a temperature sensor disposed on the support platform; and a transmitter disposed on the support platform and coupled to the temperature sensor, wherein the transmitter is configured to transmit an optical signal indicative of temperature information. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the apparatus is sized to pass through a slit valve separating the central transfer chamber and the at least one processing chamber. 33. The apparatus of claim 31 further comprising: a battery disposed on the support platform and coupled to the transmitter. 34. The apparatus of claim 31 further comprising: a receiver disposed remotely from the support platform for receiving a signal from the transmitter. 35. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the temperature sensor measures a temperature of the support platform. 36. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the temperature sensor measures a temperature of a process gas within the at least one processing chamber. 37. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the transmitter is configured to transmit the optical signal in an infrared bandwidth. 38. An apparatus for providing information obtained within a processing system, the apparatus comprising: a support platform adapted for robotic transfer within the processing system; and at least one sensor coupled to the support platform and adapted to sense a condition within the processing system, wherein the sensor provides a metric indicative of position of the support platform within the processing system. 39. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein the support platform and the sensor are sized to pass through a slit valve separating two chambers of the processing system. 40. The apparatus of claim 38, further comprising a transmitter disposed on the support platform and coupled to the sensor. 41. The apparatus of claim 38, further comprising a battery disposed on the support platform. 42. The apparatus of claim 38, further comprising a receiver for accepting data acquired by the sensor. 