A method of defect detection and repair of micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) devices comprising the steps of (A) detecting at least one defect in the MEMS device, wherein each defect is an object that prevents the MEMS device from functioning substantially properly; (B) performing repair of each detected defect; (C) checking whether the MEMS device is functioning substantially properly after each detected defect is repaired; and (D) if the MEMS device is not functioning substantially properly after each detected defect is repaired, repeating steps (A-C).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of defect detection and repair of micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) devices comprising the steps of: (A) detecting at least one defect in said MEMS device, wherein each said defect is an object that prevents said MEMS device from functioning substantially properly; (B) performing repair of each said detected defect; (C) checking whether said MEMS device is functioning substantially properly after each said detected defect is repaired; and (D) if said MEMS device is not functioning substantially properly after each said detected defect is repaired, repeating said steps (A-C). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said step (A) of performing detection of each said defect further includes the step of: (A2) performing 2-D mapping of a non-uniform distribution of the local temperature on the surface of said MEMS device. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said step (A2) of performing 2-D mapping of said non-uniform distribution of the local temperature on the surface of said MEMS device further includes the step of: applying excitation to said MEMS device. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein said step (A2) of performing 2-D mapping of said non-uniform distribution of the local temperature on the surface of said MEMS device further includes the step of: applying electromagnetic energy to said MEMS device. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein said step (A2) of performing 2-D mapping of said non-uniform distribution of the local temperature on the surface of said MEMS device further includes the step of: applying electrical energy to said MEMS device at a constant current level, at a constant power level, or at a constant voltage level. 6. The method of claim 1; wherein said step (A) of detecting at least one defect in said MEMS device further includes the step of: detecting at least one electrical `short` defect, wherein each said electrical `short` defect connects at least two electrical field lines, surfaces or volumes that are supposed to be disconnected, and wherein each said electrical `short` defect manifests itself as an area with a higher local temperature than temperature of the surrounding area; and wherein said step (B) of performing repair of each said electrical `short` defect further includes the step of: using a process of physical direct bombardment of the area inside said MEMS device wherein said at least one electrical `short` defect was detected by a focused beam of energy in order to heat and remove said defect, wherein said focused beam of energy is selected from the group consisting of: {an ion beam, an electron beam, a coherent light (laser) beam, and a non-coherent light beam}. 7. The method of claim 1; wherein said step (A) of detecting at least one defect in said MEMS device further includes the step of: detecting at least one electrical `short` defect; and wherein said step (B) of performing repair of each said electrical `short` defect further includes the steps of: using a process of physical direct bombardment of the area inside said MEMS device wherein said at least one electrical `short` defect was detected by a focused beam of energy; and using a process of chemical reaction in the presence of a reactive gas to repair each said electrical `short` defect, wherein said reactive gas reacts with the material of said MEMS in the presence of said focused beam of energy that provides the energy necessary for said chemical reaction to occur; wherein said focused beam of energy is selected from the group consisting of: {an ion beam, an electron beam, a coherent light (laser) beam, and a non-coherent light beam}. 8. The method of claim 1; wherein said step (A) of detecting at least one defect in said MEMS device further includes the step of: detecting at least one electrical `short` defect; and wherein said step (B) of performing repair of each said electrical `short` defect further includes the step of: using an atomic force tip and a process of physical or proximity wear of the area in said MEMS device wherein said at least one electrical `short` defect was detected to remove an undesirable material. 9. The method of claim 1; wherein said step (A) of detecting at least one defect in said MEMS device further includes the step of: detecting at least one electrical `open` defect, wherein said electrical `open` defect disrupts at least one electrical field line, surface or volume that is supposed to be connected, and wherein each said electrical `open` defect manifests itself as an area with a lower local temperature than the temperature of the surrounding area; and wherein said step (B) of performing repair of each said electrical `open` defect further includes the steps of: using a focused beam of energy to supply energy to each said electrical `open` defect; and depositing material to each said electrical `open` defect by using a photochemical reaction in the presence of a reactive gas between said gas and the material of said MEMS, wherein said electrical `open` defect is eliminated when covered by said deposited material; wherein said focused beam of energy is selected from the group consisting of: {an ion beam, an electron beam, a coherent light (laser) beam, and a non-coherent light beam}. 10. The method of claim 1; wherein said step (A) of detecting at least one defect in said MEMS device further includes the step of: detecting at least one electrical `open` defect, wherein said electrical `open` defect disrupts at least one electrical field line, surface or volume that is supposed to be connected and wherein said step (B) of performing repair of each said electrical `open` defect further includes the step of: using an atomic force instrument to deposit material to each said electrical `open` defect by using a process of direct material transfer, wherein said electrical `open` defect is eliminated when covered by said deposited material. 11. The method of claim 1; wherein said step (A) of detecting at least one defect in said MEMS device further includes the step of: detecting a physical obstruction defect; wherein said physical obstruction defect (POD) interferes with operation of MEMS device; and wherein said step (B) of performing repair of each said POD defect further includes the step of: using a focused beam of energy selected from the group consisting of {an ion beam, an electron beam, a coherent light (laser) beam, and a non-coherent light beam} to eliminate said POD physical defect. 12. The method of claim 1; wherein said step (A) of detecting at least one defect in said MEMS device further includes the step of: detecting a physical obstruction defect; wherein said physical obstruction defect (POD) interferes with operation of MEMS device; and wherein said step (B) of performing repair of each said POD defect further includes the step of: using one of the techniques selected from the group consisting of {an atomic force microscopy, and a scanning tunneling microscopy} to eliminate said POD physical defect. 13. The method of claim 1; wherein said step (B) of performing repair of each said detected defect further includes the step of: using a robotic means to repair each said detected defect. 