Methods and apparatus for characterizing a polymer sample and in preferred embodiments, libraries of polymer samples, in a comprehensive, directly-coupled multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system are disclosed. The first and second dimensions are preferably high-performance liquid chromatography dimensions, such as for example, a first dimension adapted for determining composition (e.g. adapted for mobile-phase gradient elution chromatography, including reverse phase chromatography, adsorption chromatography and the like), and a second dimension adapted for determining molecular weight or particle size (e.g., adapted for size exclusion chromatography, including gel permeation chromatography).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for characterizing a library of polymer samples in a multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, the method comprising: (i) providing a library of polymer samples comprising four or more different polymer samples for analysis in a multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system comprising a first dimension and a second dimension, one of the first or second dimensions being adapted for size exclusion chromatography; (ii) injecting a polymer sample of the library into a first-dimension mobile phase of the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system; (iii) chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected polymer sample from other sample components thereof in a first-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a first-dimension mobile phase eluent from the first-dimension column comprises two or more first-dimension separated sample components; (iv) sampling at least ten discrete volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent, such that at least a portion of each of the first-dimension separated sample components are sampled; (v) injecting the at least ten sampled volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent directly into a second-dimension mobile phase of the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system; (vi) chromatographically separating at least one subcomponent of the sampled portions from other subcomponents thereof in a second-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a second-dimension mobile phase eluent from the second-dimension column comprises two or more second-dimension separated subcomponents for each of the sampled portions of each of the first-dimension separated sample components; (vii) detecting a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents in the second-dimension mobile phase eluent using a flow-through detector; and (viii) repeating steps (ii) through (vii) for each of the four or more polymer samples of the library, successive polymer samples being injected into the first-dimension mobile phase of the first dimension at intervals of not more than about 30 minutes per sample. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein successive polymer samples are injected into the first-dimension mobile phase of the first dimension at intervals of not more than about 15 minutes per sample. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein successive polymer samples are injected into the first-dimension mobile phase of the first dimension at intervals of not more than about 10 minutes per sample. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein successive polymer samples are injected into the first-dimension mobile phase of the first dimension at intervals of not more than about 5 minutes per sample. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising controlling the sampling interval and sampling volume such that at least two discrete fractions of each of the first-dimension separated sample components are sampled for injection into the second dimension. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising controlling the sampling interval and sampling volume such that at least three discrete fractions of each of the first-dimension separated sample components are sampled for injection into the second dimension. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least ten discrete volumes of the first-dimension mobile-phase eluent are sampled for injection into the second-dimension mobile phases at regularly recurring time intervals. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least ten discrete volumes of the first-dimension mobile-phase eluent are sampled for injection into the second-dimension mobile phases at intervals triggered by a control signal based on detection of the first-dimension separated components in the first-dimension mobile phase eluent. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least twenty discrete volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent are sampled. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the sampled volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent are not more than about 500 .mu.l. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the sampled volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent are not more than about 250 .mu.l. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the sampled volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent has an essential absence of first-dimension separated sample components. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a property of interest from the detected property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting a property of the first-dimension separated components in the first-dimension mobile phase eluent using a flow-through detector. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents is detected using a concentration detector or mass detector. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents is detected using an evaporative light-scattering detector. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first dimension or second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for size exclusion chromatography. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first dimension or second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for gel permeation chromatography. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for size exclusion chromatography. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for gel permeation chromatography. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for determining compositional variations of first-dimension separated sample components. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for mobile-phase compositional gradient elution chromatography. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for mobile-phase temperature gradient elution chromatography. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for reverse phase chromatography. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for adsorption chromatography. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for determining compositional variations of first-dimension separated sample components, and the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for size exclusion chromatography. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer sample is a non-biological polymer sample. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer sample is a biological polymer sample. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein the library comprises four or more different non-biological polymers on a common substrate. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the library comprises four or more different non-biological polymers synthesized in a parallel reaction vessel. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein the four or more different non-biological polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from parallel polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to a factor affecting polymerization. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein the four or more different non-biological polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from parallel polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to one or more of reactant materials, catalysts, catalysts precursors, initiators, additives, or the relative amounts thereof. 33. The method of claim 1, wherein the four or more different non-biological polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from parallel polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reaction conditions. 34. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer sample is a polymerization product mixture that is untreated or pretreated only with one or more steps selected from the group consisting of non-chromatographic separation, dilution, mixing, and redissolution. 35. A method for characterizing a library of polymer samples in a multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, the method comprising: (i) providing a library of polymer samples comprising four or more different polymer samples for analysis in a multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system comprising a first dimension and a second dimension, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for determining compositional variations of first-dimension separated sample components and the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for size exclusion chromatography; (ii) injecting a polymer sample of the library into a first-dimension mobile phase of the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system; (iii) chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected polymer sample from other sample components thereof in a first-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a first-dimension mobile phase eluent from the first-dimension column comprises two or more first-dimension separated sample components; (iv) sampling at least ten discrete volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent, such that at least a portion of each of the first-dimension separated sample components are sampled; (v) injecting the at least ten sampled volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent directly into a second-dimension mobile phase of the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system; (vi) chromatographically separating at least one subcomponent of the sampled portions from other subcomponents thereof in a second-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a second-dimension mobile phase eluent from the second-dimension column comprises two or more second-dimension separated subcomponents for each of the sampled portions of each of the first-dimension separated sample components; (vii) detecting a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents in the second-dimension mobile phase eluent using a flow-through detector; and (viii) repeating steps (ii) through (vii) for each of the four or more polymer samples of the library, successive polymer samples being injected into the first-dimension mobile phase of the first dimension at intervals of not more than about 30 minutes per sample. 36. The method according to claim 35, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for mobile-phase compositional gradient elution chromatography. 37. The method according to claim 35, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for mobile-phase temperature gradient elution chromatography. 38. The method according to claim 35, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for reverse phase chromatography. 39. The method according to claim 35, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for adsorption chromatography. 