A robotic system and method for locomotion assessment and training of a mammal, exemplified by a rodent. A neurologically impaired animal is suspended over a moving surface in a harness, and the animal's hindlimbs are connected to robotic arms that apply force to the hindlimbs or measure limb movement characteristics. The moving surface can be a physical or virtual surface. A single robotic mechanism comprising two robotic arms can simultaneously apply force, measure limb movement, and provide a virtual surface. Manual or automatic adjustment of load support allows the mammal to step at varying body weight loads.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for locomotion assessment and training of a rodent-sized mammal, comprising: (a) a moving surface; (b) a suspension assembly for suspending the mammal over the moving surface so that one or more limbs of the mammal contact the moving surface; and (c) a robotic force applicator for connecting to and applying force to the one or more limbs that contact the moving surface. 2. The system of claim 1 in which the mammal is an animal about the size of a rat. 3. The system of claim 1 in which the suspension assembly comprises a counterweight support system. 4. The system of claim 1 in which the suspension assembly comprises an automatically adjustable motorized support system. 5. The system of claim 1 in which the robotic force applicator comprises one or more robotic arms. 6. The system of claim 1 in which the mammal is a laboratory rodent. 7. A system for locomotion assessment and training of a rodent-sized mammal, comprising: (a) a moving surface; (b) a suspension assembly for suspending the mammal over the moving surface so that one or more limbs of the mammal contact the moving surface; and (c) a robotic measuring assembly for connecting to the one or more limbs of the mammal and for measuring limb movement characteristics of the mammal suspended over the moving surface. 8. The system of claim 7 in which the mammal is an animal about the size of a rat. 9. The system of claim 7 in which the suspension assembly comprises a counterweight support system. 10. The system of claim 7 in which the suspension assembly comprises an automatically adjustable motorized support system. 11. The system of claim 7 in which the robotic measuring assembly comprises one or more robotic arms. 12. The system of claim 7, further comprising a robotic force applicator for applying force to the one or more limbs that contact the moving surface. 13. The method of claim 7 in which the mammal is a laboratory rodent. 14. A system for locomotion assessment and training of a laboratory rodent, comprising: (a) a moving surface; (b) a suspension assembly for suspending the rodent over the moving surface so that both rodent hindlimbs contact the moving surface; and (c) a robotic mechanism for applying force to the hindlimbs and for measuring limb movement characteristics of the rodent suspended over the moving surface, the robotic mechanism comprising two robotic arms, one arm for each hindlimb, each arm having at least two degrees of freedom. 15. The system of claim 14 in which the suspension assembly comprises a counterweight support system. 16. The system of claim 14 in which the suspension assembly comprises an automatically adjustable motorized support system. 17. The system of claim 14 in which the suspension assembly comprises a spring-actuated support system. 18. The system of claim 14 in which the suspension assembly comprises a spring-actuated support system. 19. A method of locomotion assessment and training of a rodent-sized mammal, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a moving surface; (b) suspending the mammal over the moving surface so that one or more limbs of the mammal contact the moving surface; (c) connecting a robotic force applicator to the one or more limbs that contact the moving surface; and (d) applying robotically produced force to the one or more limbs that contact the moving surface. 20. The method of claim 19 in which the mammal is an animal about the size of a rat. 21. The method of claim 19 in which the mammal is a laboratory rodent. 22. A method of locomotion assessment and training of a rodent-sized mammal, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a moving surface; (b) suspending the mammal over the moving surface so that one or more limbs of the mammal contact the moving surface; (c) connecting a robotic measuring assembly to the one or more limbs that contact the moving surface; and (d) robotically measuring limb movement characteristics of the mammal suspended over the moving surface. 23. The method of claim 22 in which the mammal is an animal about the size of a rat. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of applying robotically produced force to the one or more limbs that contact the moving surface. 25. The method of claim 22 in which the mammal is a laboratory rodent. 26. A method of locomotion assessment and training of a laboratory rodent, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a moving surface; (b) suspending the rodent over the moving surface so that one or both rodent hindlimbs contact the moving surface; (c) connecting a robotic force applicator to the one or both hindlimbs that contact the moving surface; and (d) applying robotically produced force to the one or both hindlimbs that contact the moving surface. 27. The method of claim 26 in which the surface is moving at a speed ranging from about 6 cm/s to about 20 cm/s. 28. The method of claim 26 in which load on the rodent ranges from about 25% to about 100% of body weight. 29. A method of locomotion assessment and training of a laboratory rodent, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a moving surface; (b) suspending the rodent over the moving surface so that both rodent hindlimbs contact the moving surface; (c) connecting a robotic measuring assembly to the one or both hindlimbs that contact the moving surface; and (c) robotically measuring limb movement characteristics of the rodent suspended over the moving surface. 30. The method of claim 29 in which the surface is moving at a speed ranging from about 6 cm/s to about 20 cm/s. 31. The method of claim 29 in which load on the rodent ranges from about 25% to about 100% of body weight. 32. The method of claim 29, further comprising the step of applying robotically produced force to the one or both hindlimbs that contact the moving surface. 