A robot for imaging and excision of two-dimensional fluorescent gels. An array detector is mounted in the roof of the robot to image down onto a gel dish placed on a light table. Fluorescence is excited by illuminating the light table from below with light emitting diodes mounted under the main bed of the apparatus. It is therefore possible to perform gel fluorescence analysis and coring (excision) using the same machine. The integration is based on a transmission mode optical design, distinct from prior art scanners and imagers which are based on reflection mode designs. This approach allows the conventional layout of a microarraying or picking robot to be maintained, avoiding unnecessary redesign of other robot functions associated with well plate and container handling. The apparatus may also be used for contrast imaging of non-fluorescent gels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic apparatus comprising: a main bed fitted with a light table plate on which a gel dish can be placed; a head with associated positioning system mounted above the main bed of the apparatus; an array detector mounted to image the light table plate from above; and a plurality of light emitting diodes mounted under the main bed of the apparatus to illuminate the light table plate from below. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a diffuser arranged between the light emitting diodes and the light table plate in order to equalize the intensity distribution of light from the light emitting diodes that is incident on the light table plate. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the diffuser is a holographic diffuser. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a detection-side filter is arranged between the light table plate and the array detector and has a response that passes wavelengths lying in a fluorescence band of a fluorescent stain to be used. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein an illumination-side filter is arranged between the light emitting diodes and the light table plate and has a response that blocks wavelengths lying in a fluorescence band of a fluorescent stain to be used and passes wavelengths lying in an excitation band of the fluorescent stain. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a detection-side filter is arranged between the light table plate and the array detector and has a response that passes wavelengths lying in an emission band of a fluorescent stain to be used and blocks wavelengths lying in an excitation band of the fluorescent stain, and wherein an excitation-side filter is arranged between the light emitting diodes and the light table plate and has a response that blocks wavelengths lying in the emission band of the fluorescent stain. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light emitting diodes output light at wavelengths lying in an excitation band of a fluorescent stain to be used. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light emitting diodes are blue light emitting diodes. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light emitting diodes include a first group for outputting in a first wavelength band and a second group for outputting in a second wavelength band. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the head comprises a plurality of gel corers. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light table plate is made of translucent acrylic or glass material. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the array detector is a charged coupled device (CCD). 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the CCD is provided with a cooling device. 14. A robotic apparatus comprising: a main bed fitted with a light table plate on which a gel dish can be placed; a head with associated positioning system mounted above the main bed of the apparatus; a detector mounted to view the light table plate from above; and a laser mounted under the main bed of the apparatus to scan a laser beam over the light table plate from below. 