There is therefore provided, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, a robotic system for systematically moving about an area to be covered. The system includes at least one boundary marker (48) located along the outer edge of the area to be covered, a robot (40) with a navigation system (41) and a sensor unit (43). The navigation system (41) navigates the robot (40) in generally straight, parallel lines from an initial location and turns the robot (40) when the robot (40) encounters one of the boundary markers (48), thereby to systematically move about the area to be covered. The sensor unit (43) senses proximity to one of the at least one boundary marker (48).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating a robot comprising: moving the robot over a surface initially in accordance with a first scanning mode; detecting an obstacle; moving the robot so as to follow the obstacle in accordance with a second scanning mode; and, returning to the first scanning mode when the robot is beyond the obstacle. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second scanning mode includes detecting the obstacle and turning the robot in response to the obstacle being detected. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the second scanning mode additionally includes moving the robot away from the obstacle after the robot has turned. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein turning the robot includes turning the robot approximately 180 degrees. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first scanning mode includes moving the robot in substantially straight lines, substantially parallel to each other. 6. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising: operating the robot for lawn mowing. 7. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising: operating the robot for vacuum cleaning. 8. A robot for moving about an area to be covered, the robot comprising: a navigation system; a boundary sensor for sensing proximity to a boundary marker; an obstacle sensor for indicating proximity to an obstacle within said area to be covered; and said navigation system programmed to navigate said robot in a pattern of generally straight, parallel lines turning said robot when said robot senses a boundary marker or an obstacle. 9. The robot of claim 8, wherein said navigation system is additionally configured to count the number of laps needed to cover the area between an obstacle and a boundary marker. 10. The robot of claim 8, wherein said navigation system is additionally configured to note a position of said robot prior to covering an area behind an obstacle, to enable said robot to return to the position after covering said area behind said obstacle. 