An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece is set forth. The apparatus comprises a workpiece support adapted to hold the microelectronic workpiece and a processing container adapted to receive the microelectronic workpiece held by the workpiece support. A drive mechanism is connected to drive the processing container and the workpiece support relative to one another so that the microelectronic workpiece may be moved to a plurality of workpiece processing positions for processing using processing fluid that is provided by first and second chemical delivery systems. The apparatus also includes first and second chemical collector systems that are used to assist in at least partially removing spent processing fluid. In accordance with one embodiment, the apparatus is particularly adapted to execute an immersion process, such as electroplating, and a spraying process, such as an in-situ rinse.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece, the apparatus comprising: a workpiece support configured to hold the microelectronic workpiece; a processing container configured to receive the microelectronic workpiece held by the workpiece support; a drive mechanism connected to drive at least one of the processing container and the workpiece support holding the microelectronic workpiece relative to the other so that the microelectronic workpiece may be moved to a plurality of workpiece processing positions; a first chemical delivery system providing at least one processing fluid to the processing container for application to the microelectronic workpiece when the microelectronic workpiece is in a first one of the plurality of workpiece processing positions; a first chemical collector system configured to assist in at least partially removing spent processing fluid provided by the first chemical delivery system while the microelectronic workpiece is in the first one of the plurality of workpiece processing positions; a second chemical delivery system providing at least one processing fluid to the processing container for application to the microelectronic workpiece when the microelectronic workpiece is in a second one of the plurality of microelectronic workpiece processing positions, the second chemical delivery system directing a spray of processing fluid for initial contact with the microelectronic workpiece at an initial radial position; a second chemical collector system configured to assist in at least partially removing spent processing fluid provided by the second chemical delivery system from the processing container while the microelectronic workpiece is in the second one of the plurality of microelectronic workpiece processing positions; and a control system operatively coupled to the second chemical delivery system and the drive mechanism and being programmed with instructions that direct the drive mechanism to move the workpiece support during application of the spray from the second chemical delivery system so as to vary the radial position of the initial contact between the spray and the microelectronic workpiece. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a rotor drive connected to spin the workpiece support. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first one of the plurality of workpiece processing positions is at a first level within the processing container and the second one of the plurality of workpiece processing positions is at a second level within the processing container, the second level being above the first level. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first chemical collector system is disposed at a level of the processing container corresponding to the first one of the plurality of workplace processing positions and the second chemical collector system is disposed at a different level of the processing container that corresponds to the second one of the plurality of workplace processing positions. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second chemical collector system collects spent processing fluid as the spent processing fluid is flung from the microelectronic workpiece during spinning of the microelectronic workpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second chemical collector system comprises: a splash wall extending about the interior periphery of the processing container; a further wall extending about the interior periphery of the processing container; the splash wall and further wall defining a collection channel therebetween for collecting the spent processing fluid of the second chemical delivery system. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising a fluid outlet proceeding from the collection channel. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second chemical delivery system is configured to direct a spray of processing fluid that initially impinges on less than an entire radius of the microelectronic workpiece. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second chemical delivery system directs a stream of the at least one processing fluid toward a fixed location. 10. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece, the apparatus comprising: a workpiece support configured to hold the microelectronic workpiece; a processing container configured to receive the microelectronic workpiece held by the workpiece support; an automated drive system connected to drive at least one of the processing container and the workpiece support holding the microelectronic workpiece relative to the other so that the microelectronic workpiece is moved between an initial processing position and a secondary processing position; a chemical delivery system providing at least one stream of at least one processing fluid to the processing container for application to at least one surface of the microelectronic workpiece as the microelectronic workpiece proceeds between the initial processing position and secondary processing position, the at least one stream being directed toward a first portion of the at least one surface of the microelectronic workpiece when the microelectronic workpiece is in the initial processing position, the at least one stream being directed toward a second portion of the at least one surface of the microelectronic workpiece disposed radially outwardly from the first portion, when the microelectronic workpiece is in the secondary processing position; and a control system operatively coupled to the chemical delivery system and the automated drive system and programmed with instructions that direct the drive system to move the workpiece support while the chemical delivery system directs the at least one stream toward the microelectronic workpiece. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the automated drive system includes a linear actuator that drives at least one of the processing container and the workpiece support relative to the other along a vertically oriented drive path. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the automated drive system includes a rotational actuator that drives at least one of the processing container and the workpiece support relative to the other along an angular drive path. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a chemical collector system configured to remove spent processing fluid provided by the chemical delivery system as the microelectronic workpiece proceeds between the initial processing position and the secondary processing position. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: a further chemical delivery system configured to provide at least one processing fluid to the processing container for application to the microelectronic workpiece when the microelectronic workpiece is in a further processing position other than a position between the initial and secondary processing positions; and a further chemical collector system configured to assist in at least partially removing spent processing fluid provided by the further chemical delivery system from the processing container while the microelectronic workpiece is in the further workpiece processing position. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the chemical collector system comprises: a splash wall extending about the interior periphery of the processing container; a further wall extending about the interior periphery of the processing container; the splash wall and further wall defining a collection channel therebetween for collecting the spent processing fluid of the further chemical delivery system. 16. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a rotor drive connected to spin the workpiece support and corresponding microelectronic workpiece as the microelectronic workpiece proceeds from the initial processing position to the secondary processing position. 17. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the chemical delivery system is configured to direct a stream of processing fluid that initially impinges on less than an entire radius of the microelectronic workpiece. 18. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece, the apparatus comprising: a workpiece support configured to hold the microelectronic workpiece; a processing container configured to receive the microelectronic workpiece held by the workpiece support, the processing container being configured for immersion processing of at least one surface of the microelectronic workpiece at a first processing portion of the processing container, and configured for spray processing the at least one surface of the microelectronic workpiece at a second processing portion of the processing container; a drive mechanism connected to drive at least one of the processing container and the workpiece support holding the microelectronic workpiece relative to the other so that the microelectronic workpiece may be moved to a plurality of workpiece processing positions, the plurality of workpiece processing positions including at least an immersion processing position proximate the first portion of the processing container and a spray processing position proximate the second portion of the processing container; a first chemical delivery system configured to provide at least one processing fluid to the processing container for immersion processing of the at least one surface of the microelectronic workpiece when the microelectronic workpiece is at the immersion processing position; a first chemical collector system configured to assist in at least partially removing spent processing fluid provided by the first chemical delivery system while the microelectronic workpiece is at the immersion processing position; a second chemical delivery system configured to provide at least one processing fluid to the processing container for spray processing of the at least one surface of the microelectronic workpiece when the microelectronic workpiece is at the spray processing position, the second chemical delivery system being positioned to direct a spray of processing fluid for initial contact with the microelectronic workpiece at an initial radial position; a second chemical collector system configured to assist in at least partially removing spent processing fluid provided by the second chemical delivery system from the processing container while the microelectronic workpiece is at the spray processing position; and a control system operatively coupled to the second chemical delivery system and the drive mechanism and programmed with instructions that direct the drive mechanism to move the workpiece support during application of the spray from the second chemical delivery system so as to vary the radial position of the initial contact between the spray and the microelectronic workpiece. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the first processing portion of the processing container is below the second processing portion of the processing container. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a rotor drive connected to spin the workpiece support. 21. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the immersion processing position is at a first level within the processing container and the spray processing position is at a second level within the processing container, the second level being above the first level. 22. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the second chemical collector system collects spent processing fluid as the spent processing fluid is flung from the microelectronic workpiece during spinning of the microelectronic workpiece. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the second chemical collector system comprises: a splash wall extending about the interior periphery of the processing container; a further wall extending about the interior periphery of the processing container; the splash wall and further wall defining a collection channel therebetween for collecting the spent processing fluid of the second chemical delivery system. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, further comprising a fluid outlet proceeding from the collection channel. 25. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the drive mechanism comprises a linear actuator and wherein the control system directs the linear actuator to drive the microelectronic workpiece along a vertically oriented linear drive path between the immersion processing position and the spray processing position. 26. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the drive mechanism comprises a rotational actuator and wherein the control system directs the rotational actuator to rotate the microelectronic workpiece along an angular drive path about a fixed rotation axis between the immersion processing position and the spray processing position. 27. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: a workpiece support configured to hold a microelectronic workpiece; a processing vessel configured to receive a microelectronic workpiece held by the workpiece support; a drive system coupled to the workpiece support to move the workpiece support along a first axis relative to the processing vessel between a first position and a second position, the drive system being configured to tilt the workpiece support relative to the vessel about a second axis generally transverse to the first axis; a fluid delivery system positioned to direct at least one stream of processing fluid toward the workpiece support to impinge on a microelectronic workpiece while the workpiece support holds the microelectronic workpiece; and a control system operatively coupled to the drive system to direct the drive system to move the workpiece support while the fluid delivery system directs the at least one stream of processing fluid, wherein the control system directs the drive system to drive the microelectronic workpiece between the first position and the second position as the fluid delivery system provides the at least one stream of processing fluid for contact with at least one surface of the microelectronic workpiece, the at least one stream being directed toward a first portion of the at least one surface of the microelectronic workpiece when the microelectronic workpiece is in the first position, the at least one stream being directed toward a second portion of the at least one surface of the microelectronic workpiece disposed radially outwardly from the first position, when the microelectronic workpiece is in the second position. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising: a fluid collector system; and a rotor drive connected to spin the workpiece support and corresponding microelectronic workpiece to thereby fling spent processing fluid into the fluid collector system. 29. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising a fluid collector system that includes: a splash wall extending about the interior periphery of the processing vessel; a further wall extending about the interior periphery of the processing vessel; the splash wall and further wall defining a collection channel therebetween for collecting the spent processing fluid of the fluid delivery system. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, further comprising a fluid outlet proceeding from the collection channel. 31. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein the drive system comprises a linear actuator and wherein the control system directs the linear actuator to drive the microelectronic workpiece along a vertically oriented linear drive path between the first position and the second position. 32. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: a workpiece support configured to hold the microelectronic workpiece; a processing container configured to receive the microelectronic workpiece held by the workpiece support; a drive mechanism connected to drive at least one of the processing container and the workpiece support relative to the other to move the microelectronic workpiece to at least one processing position; a fluid delivery system positioned to direct a spray of a processing fluid to the processing container for application to the microelectronic workpiece when the microelectronic workpiece is in the at least one workpiece processing position; and a collector system positioned to receive at least a portion of the processing fluid directed by the fluid delivery system, the collector system including a first annular channel and a second annular channel positioned at least proximate to the first annular channel, the first and second annular channels being in fluid communication with each other via a common outlet. 33. The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the first and second annular channels are disposed concentrically about an axis, and wherein the workpiece support is rotatable relative to the container about the axis. 34. The apparatus of claim 32 wherein at least one of the annular channels is bounded by a first wall and a second wall, with at least part of the second wall positioned radially outwardly from the first wall. 35. The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the first annular channel is bounded by a first wall and a second wall, with at least part of the second wall positioned radially outwardly from the first wall, and wherein the second annular channel is bounded by the second wall and a third wall, with at least part of the third wall positioned radially outwardly from the second wall. 36. The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the second annular channel is positioned above the first annular channel. 37. The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the first and second annular channels are concentric about an axis and wherein the first annular channel has a first axial position relative to the axis and the second annular channel has a second axial position relative to the axis, the second axial position being different than the first axial position. 38. The apparatus of claim 32, further comprising a control system operatively coupled to the drive mechanism and programmed to direct the drive mechanism to move the workpiece support during application of the spray from the delivery system so as to vary the radial position of an initial contact between the spray and the microelectronic workpiece. 39. The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the workpiece support is movable relative to the container along an axis to a plurality of processing positions, and wherein at least one of the annular channels is bounded by a first wall and a second wall, with at least part of the second wall disposed radially outwardly from the first wall, and wherein the first and second walls are disposed obliquely relative to the axis. 40. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: a workpiece support configured to hold the microelectronic workpiece; a processing container configured to receive the microelectronic workpiece held by the workpiece support; a drive mechanism connected to drive at least one of the processing container and the workpiece support relative to the other to move the microelectronic workpiece to a plurality of processing positions; a first fluid delivery system positioned to provide at least one processing fluid to the processing container for application to the microelectronic workpiece when the microelectronic workpiece is in a first one of the plurality of workpiece processing positions; a first fluid collector system positioned to receive at least a portion of the processing fluid provided by the first fluid delivery system while the microelectronic workpiece is in the first one of the plurality of workpiece processing positions; a second fluid delivery system positioned to direct a spray of at least one processing fluid to the processing container for application to the microelectronic workpiece when the microelectronic workpiece is in a second one of the plurality of microelectronic workpiece processing positions; a second fluid collector system positioned to receive at least a portion of the processing fluid directed by the second fluid delivery system while the microelectronic workpiece is in the second one of the plurality of microelectronic workpiece processing positions, the second fluid collector including a first annular channel and a second annular channel positioned at least proximate to the first annular channel, the first and second annular channels being in fluid communication with each other via a common outlet. 41. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein the first and second annular channels are disposed concentrically about an axis, and wherein the workpiece support is rotatable relative to the container about the axis. 42. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein at least one of the annular channels is bounded by a first wall and a second wall, with at least part of the second wall positioned radially outwardly from the first wall. 43. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein the first annular channel is bounded by a first wall and a second wall, with at least part of the second wall positioned radially outwardly from the first wall, and wherein the second annular channel is bounded by the second wall and a third wall, with at least part of the third wall positioned radially outwardly from the second wall. 44. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein the second annular channel is positioned above the first channel. 45. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein the first and second annular channels are concentric about an axis and wherein the first annular channel has a first axial position relative to the axis and the second annular channel has a second axial position relative to the axis, the second axial position being different than the first axial position. 46. The apparatus of claim 40, further comprising a control system operatively coupled to the drive mechanism and configured to direct the drive mechanism to move the workpiece support during application of the spray from the second delivery system so as to vary the radial position of an initial contact between the spray and the microelectronic workpiece. 47. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein the workpiece support is movable relative to the container along an axis to a plurality of processing positions, and wherein at least one of the annular channels is bounded by a first wall and a second wall, with at least part of the second wall disposed radially outwardly from the first wall, and wherein the first and second walls are disposed obliquely relative to the axis. 