The subject invention includes a coupling device for coupling a tooling arm to a robotic arm assembly. The coupling device includes a sensing mechanism which monitors relative distances within the coupling device in order to detect displacement in the coupling device. The coupling device also includes an adjustment method for setting the level of force required to execute a breakaway between the items being coupled, while providing a minimum magnetic holding force great enough to assure that robotic arm accelerations and de-accelerations can not cause the inertia or momentum to dislodge the tooling arm from the robotic arm assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A coupling device comprising: a mount face defining a magnetically permeable surface and having a first locating surface; a mount surface having a magnetic face and a second locating surface complementary to the first locating surface; and a sensor for sensing relative distance between the mount face and mount surface. 2. The coupling device of claim 1, wherein a magnetic gap between the magnetic face and the mount face is adjustable. 3. The coupling device of claim 1, wherein the mount surface is located on a robotic tooling arm. 4. The coupling device of claim 1 wherein the mount face is located on a mounting block of a robotic arm. 5. The coupling device of claim 1, wherein the first locating surface includes a groove. 6. The coupling device of claim 5, wherein the second locating surface includes a stemmed tooling ball. 7. The coupling device of claim 6, wherein the sensor includes an inductive proximity sensor. 8. The coupling device of claim 7, wherein a magnetic gap between the mount face and the mount surface is adjustable. 9. A robotic arm assembly comprising: a tooling arm having a first mounting surface, the first mounting surface having a mount face defining a magnetically permeable surface and a first locating surface; a mounting block having a second mounting surface, wherein the second mounting surface includes a magnetic face and a second locating surface complementary to the first locating surface, the first and second mounting surfaces being coupled to each other; and a motion sensor coupled to the mounting block and positioned to detect relative motion in the tooling arm. 10. The assembly of claim 9, wherein the motion sensor triggers a shut-off mechanism for the robotic arm upon detection of motion in the tooling arm. 11. The assembly of claim 10, wherein the first and second locating surface includes, respectively, a V-shaped groove and a stemmed tooling ball. 12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein an attractive force between the first mounting surface and second mounting surface is adjustable. 13. The assembly of claim 9, wherein the motion sensor is an inductive proximity sensor. 14. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the inductive proximity sensor communicates with a shut-off mechanism of a robotic arm assembly. 15. A method of detecting an injury to a tooling arm of a robotic arm assembly comprising: providing a tooling arm having a first mounting surface; providing a mounting block having a second mounting surface and a motion sensor; magnetically coupling the first mounting surface to the second mounting surface; and determining if there is relative movement of the first mounting surface with respect to the second mounting surface. 16. The method of claim 15, and further comprising shutting down the robotic arm assembly after relative movement between the first and second mounting surface has been detected. 17. The method of claim 16, and further comprising setting the sensitivity of the robotic arm assembly to an injury by adjusting a magnetic gap between the first and second mounting surfaces. 18. The method of claim 17, and further comprising locating the first mounting surface relative to the second mounting surface. 