A method for fabricating semiconductor wafers. Specifically, an arm which is constructed to hold a wafer, is mounted on a rotational device to provide a user with the means of inspecting a wafer in any position without having to physically touch the wafer or move the wafer to another inspection station. The arm provides rotation about an axis parallel to the surface of the wafer, as well as rotation about an axis run which is perpendicular to the surface of the wafer and extends through the axial center of the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of fabricating an integrated circuit package comprising the acts of: (a) disposing a plurality of integrated circuit devices onto a silicon wafer; (b) inspecting the wafer, wherein inspecting comprises the acts of: (i) loading the wafer into a wafer holding structure, the wafer having a first surface and a second surface; (ii) inspecting the first surface of the wafer by rotating the wafer within the wafer holding structure about a first axis, the first axis disposed generally perpendicular to the surface of the wafer and extending generally through the axial center of the wafer; (iii) rotating the wafer holding structure about a rotatable member to rotate the wafer approximately 180.degree. about a second axis, the rotatable member being mechanically coupled to the wafer holding structure; (iv) inspecting the second surface of the wafer; and (v) removing the wafer from the wafer holding structure. (c) electrically testing the integrated circuit devices; (d) singulating the integrated circuit devices; and (e) packaging selected singulated integrated circuit devices to form respective integrated circuit packages. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein act (b)(1) comprises the acts of: (a) opening gripper arms of the wafer holding structure; (b) inserting the wafer into a wedge assembly on the gripper arms; (c) retracting the wedge assembly; and (d) closing the gripper arms. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein act (b)(2) comprises the act of rotating the wafer within the wafer holding structure until a notch on the first surface of the wafer is optically sensed. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein act (b)(2) comprises the act of rotating the wafer within the wafer holding structure with a wedge assembly mechanically coupled to a drive motor, the wedge assembly being coupled to the wafer. 5. The method as set forth in claim 4, comprising controlling the rotation of the wafer using an operator driven joystick coupled to control the drive motor. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein act (b)(3) comprises the act of rotating the wafer holding structure about a rotatable member using a pitch motor, the pitch motor being operably coupled to the rotatable member. 7. The method as set forth in claim 6, comprising controlling the rotation of the wafer using an operator driven joystick coupled to control the pitch motor. 8. A method of fabricating an integrated circuit package comprising the acts of: disposing a plurality of integrated circuit devices onto a silicon wafer; and inspecting the wafer, wherein inspecting comprises: placing the wafer into a wafer holding structure, the wafer having a first surface and a second surface; rotating the wafer within the wafer holding structure about a first axis to inspect the first surface; rotating the wafer holding structure about a rotatable member to flip the wafer about a second axis different than the first axis to inspect the second surface, the rotatable member being mechanically coupled to the wafer holding structure; and removing the wafer from the wafer holding structure. 9. The method as set forth in claim 8, comprising the acts of: electrically testing the integrated circuit devices; singulating the integrated circuit devices; and packaging selected singulated integrated circuit devices to form respective integrated circuit packages. 10. The method as set forth in claim 8, wherein: the first axis is generally orthogonal to the first and second surfaces of the wafer and extends generally through an axial center of the wafer; and the second axis is generally orthogonal to the first axis. 11. The method as set forth in claim 8, wherein the act of inspecting the first surface comprises the act of using members of the holding structure to hold and rotate the substrate about the first axis. 12. The method as set forth in claim 8, wherein the act of rotating the wafer holding structure comprises the act of rotating the wafer holding structure approximately 180.degree. about the rotatable member. 13. The method as set forth in claim 8, wherein the rotatable member comprises a shaft. 14. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit package comprising the acts of: disposing a plurality of integrated circuit devices onto a substrate; and inspecting the substrate having the integrated circuit devices, wherein the inspection comprises: placing the wafer into a wafer holding structure, the wafer having a first surface and a second surface; rotating the wafer within the wafer holding structure about a first axis to inspect the first surface; rotating the wafer holding structure about a second axis different than the first axis to inspect the second surface; and removing the wafer from the wafer holding structure. 15. The method as set forth in claim 14, comprising the act of electrically testing the integrated circuit devices. 16. The method as set forth in claim 14, comprising the act of separating the integrated circuit devices. 17. The method as set forth in claim 16, comprising packaging a selection of the separated integrated circuit devices. 18. The method as set forth in claim 14, wherein: the first axis is substantially perpendicular to the first and second surfaces of the wafer, and extends generally through the axial center of the wafer; and the second axis is substantially parallel to the first and second surfaces of the wafer. 19. The method as set forth in claim 14, wherein the act of rotating the substrate within the holding structure comprises the act of rotating the substrate using at least one member of the holding structure. 20. The method as set forth in claim 14, wherein the act of placing the substrate into a holding structure comprising the act of inserting the substrate into members of the holding structure, the members configured to rotate the substrate. 21. The method as set forth in claim 20, wherein the members of the holding structure comprise wedge assemblies disposed on gripper arms. 22. The method as set forth in claim 21, wherein the act of inserting the substrate into the members of the holding structure comprising wedge assemblies comprises the act of opening and closing the gripper arms about a perimeter of the substrate using tension springs disposed in the holding structure to insert the substrate into the wedge assemblies. 