An automated macromolecular crystallization screening system wherein a multiplicity of reagent mixes are produced. A multiplicity of analysis plates is produced utilizing the reagent mixes combined with a sample. The analysis plates are incubated to promote growth of crystals. Images of the crystals are made. The images are analyzed with regard to suitability of the crystals for analysis by x-ray crystallography. A design of reagent mixes is produced based upon the expected suitability of the crystals for analysis by x-ray crystallography. A second multiplicity of mixes of the reagent components is produced utilizing the design and a second multiplicity of reagent mixes is used for a second round of automated macromolecular crystallization screening. In one embodiment the multiplicity of reagent mixes are produced by a random selection of reagent components.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automated macromolecular crystallization screening a sample, comprising: randomly selecting reagent components from a set of reagents and creating a multiplicity of initial random reagent mixes of said reagent components to produce an initial multiplicity of said reagent components, creating an initial multiplicity of analysis plates wherein each of said analysis plates contains said initial random reagent mixes of said reagent mixes combined with said samples, incubating said initial analysis plates to promote growth of crystals in said analysis plates, creating images of said crystals, analyzing said images with regard to suitability of said crystals for analysis by x-ray crystallography and providing a design of reagent mixes, creating a second multiplicity of mixes of said reagent components utilizing said design, and using said second multiplicity of reagent mixes for automated macromolecular crystallization screening said sample. 2. The method of automated macromolecular crystallization screening a sample of claim 1, wherein said step of creating images of said crystals utilizes a camera. 3. The method of automated macromolecular crystallization screening a sample of claim 1, wherein said step of randomly selecting reagent components from a set of reagents and creating a multiplicity of initial random reagent mixes of said reagent components utilizes a robot system. 4. The method of automated macromolecular crystallization screening a sample of claim 3, wherein said set of reagents comprises ninety stock solutions. 5. The method of automated macromolecular crystallization screening a sample of claim 4, wherein said ninety stock solutions are divided into five groups. 6. The method of automated macromolecular crystallization screening a sample of claim 5, wherein said five groups consist of precipitant, buffer, pH, additive and detergent. 7. The method of automated macromolecular crystallization screening a sample of claim 1, wherein said step of creating an initial multiplicity of analysis plates wherein each of said analysis plates contains a set format of said initial random reagent mixes combined with said sample utilizes a robot system. 8. The method of automated macromolecular crystallization screening a sample of claim 7, wherein said analysis plates are part of a ninety-six well plate. 9. An automated macromolecular crystallization screening apparatus for a sample, comprising: a source of reagent components, reagent selection means for creating a multiplicity of reagent mixes of said reagent components wherein said reagent selection means initially randomly selects reagent components from said source of reagent components to produce an initial multiplicity of reagent mixes that are purely random mixes, means for creating a multiplicity of analysis plates wherein each of said analysis plates contains a set format of said reagent mixes combined with said sample, incubation means for promoting growth of crystals in said analysis plates, means for creating an image of said crystals, and computer means for analyzing said images with regard to suitability of said crystals for analysis by x-ray crystallography. 10. The automated macromolecular crystallization screening apparatus of claim 9, wherein said reagent selection means comprises a liquid robot system that randomly selects reagent components from said source of reagent components to produce an initial multiplicity of reagent mixes that are purely random mixes. 11. The automated macromolecular crystallization screening apparatus of claim 9, wherein said reagent selection means comprises a programmed cornputer reagent selection means that provides an initial design of reagent mixes that is purely random and wherein said programmed computer reagent selection means creates a second multiplicity of mixes of said reagent components utilizing said source of reagent components. 12. The automated macromolecular crystallization screening apparatus of claim 9, wherein said means for creating an image of said crystals is a camera. 13. The automated macromolecular crystallization screening apparatus of claim 9, wherein said random reagent selection means for creating a multiplicity of reagent mixes of said reagent components is a robot system. 14. The automated macromolecular crystallization screening apparatus of claim 9, wherein said means for creating a multiplicity of analysis plates wherein each of said analysis plates contains a set format of said reagent mixes combined with said sample is a robot system. 15. The automated macromolecular crystallization screening apparatus of claim 9, wherein said source of reagent components comprises ninety stock solutions. 16. The automated macromolecular crystallization screening apparatus of claim 15, wherein said ninety stock solutions are divided into five groups. 17. The automated macromolecular crystallization screening apparatus of claim 16, wherein said five groups consist of precipitant, buffer, pH, additive and detergent. 18. The automated macrormolecular crystallization screening apparatus of claim 9, wherein said analysis plates are part of a ninety-six well plate. 