The present disclosure provides a high performance hybrid magnetic structure made from a combination of permanent magnets and ferromagnetic pole materials which are assembled in a predetermined array. The hybrid magnetic structure provides means for separation and other biotechnology applications involving holding, manipulation, or separation of magnetizable molecular structures and targets. Also disclosed are: a method of assembling the hybrid magnetic plates, a high throughput protocol featuring the hybrid magnetic structure, and other embodiments of the ferromagnetic pole shape, attachment and adapter interfaces for adapting the use of the hybrid magnetic structure for use with liquid handling and other robots for use in high throughput processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A hybrid magnetic structure comprising: a. a non-magnetic base; b. a ferromagnetic pole; c. at least two blocks of permanent magnet material; wherein the at least two blocks of permanent magnet material are assembled onto said base on opposite sides of and adjacent to said ferromagnetic pole, a periodic array, and have the magnetization orientations oriented in opposing directions and orthogonal to the height of said ferromagnetic pole, and wherein said blocks of permanent magnet material extend below the bottom edge of said ferromagnetic pole when assembled onto said base; and, wherein the ferromagnetic pole has a shaped tip which extends from a bottom edge to a shaped tip which extends beyond each block of permanent magnet material. 2. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, further comprising two ferromagnetic poles, one on each end of said periodic array. 3. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, further comprising at least one retainer adjacent the outermost block of magnetic material. 4. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 3, further comprising a pair of opposing retainers extending orthogonally to the magnetization orientation. 5. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, having a magnetic field strength of at least 6000 Gauss. 6. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, wherein said pole tip has a shape in cross section selected from the group consisting of trapezoid, T-shaped, inverted L-shaped, circle, triangle, elliptical, conical, square, rectangle, trapezium, rhombus, and rhomboid. 7. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, wherein the non-magnetic base is aluminum. 8. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, wherein the ferromagnetic pole is made of steel. 9. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 8, wherein the blocks of permanent magnet material comprise a rare earth element. 10. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 9, wherein the blocks of permanent magnet material comprise neodymium iron boron. 11. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, further comprising an upper interface attached on top of the hybrid magnetic structure. 12. A hybrid magnetic structure comprising: a. a non-magnetic base; b. a ferromagnetic pole; c. at least two blocks of permanent magnet material, assembled onto said base, on opposite sides of and adjacent to the ferromagnetic pole in a periodic array, and having the magnetization orientations oriented in opposing directions and orthogonal to the height of the ferromagnetic pole; wherein said blocks of permanent magnet material extend below the bottom edge of said ferromagnetic pole when assembled onto said base, wherein said ferromagnetic pole has a shaped tip which extend from the bottom edge to a shaped tip which extends beyond each block of permanent magnet material; the hybrid magnetic structure, further comprising a microtiter plate thereon, whereby microtiter wells in said microtiter plate are disposed between aid ferromagnetic poles of the periodic array. 13. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 12, further comprising a lower locator plate attached to the bottom of the hybrid magnetic structure. 14. A hybrid magnetic structure, having a field strength of greater than 8000 Gauss, comprising: a. a non-magnetic base having grooves therein; b. a ferromagnetic pole having a shaped tip extending in height to a bottom edge; c. at least two blocks of permanent magnet material, assemble onto said base in said grooves, on opposite sides of and adjacent to the ferromagnetic pole. 15. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 14, wherein the blocks of permanent magnet material extend below the bottom edge of the ferromagnetic pole. 16. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 14, wherein the blocks of permanent magnet material have a magnetization orientation which is oriented in opposing directions and orthogonal to the height of the ferromagnetic pole. 