The present invention provides various clutch/gear assemblies that can be driven by a single motor. The clutch/gear assemblies comprise a smart material which changes shape when supplied with energy, e.g., current or heat. The smart material achieves one of a first or a second shape when supplied with energy, and achieves the other shape when it is not supplied with energy. When the smart material achieves a first shape it causes a clutch surface of the clutch/gear to engage and be driven by a shaft coupled to the motor and when the smart material achieves a second shape it allows the clutch surface to disengage from the shaft.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A clutch system comprising: a driving member coupled to a motor; a clutch for engaging the driving member and transferring power from the driving member to a first driven member comprising, a clutch surface for engaging the driving member, a shape altering material coupled to the clutch surface, wherein the shape altering material can achieve a first shape and a second shape, wherein the shape altering material achieves one of said first or second shapes when supplied with energy and achieves the remaining one of said first or second shapes when it is not supplied with energy, wherein as the shape altering material achieves a first shape it applies a force for causing the clutch surface to engage and be driven by said driving member and wherein when the shape altering material achieves a second shape it allows the clutch surface to disengage from the driving member; and an energy source coupled to the shape altering material. 2. A system as recited in claim 1 further comprising a second clutch for engaging said driving member and transferring power from the driving member to a second driven member. 3. A system as recited in claim 1 wherein the driving member is a shaft. 4. A system as recited in claim 1 wherein each of said first and second driven members are gears. 5. A system as recited in claim 1 wherein the driving member is a cylindrical surface coupled to a shaft driven by the motor, wherein rotation of the shaft rotates the cylindrical surface. 6. A system as recited in claim 5 wherein the clutch surface is an inner surface of an annular clutch plate surrounding the cylindrical surface and wherein the shape altering material is a wire wrapped at least around a portion of the clutch plate for causing the clutch plate inner surface to compress over the cylindrical surface. 7. A system as recited in claim 6 wherein inner surface of the clutch plate comprises ridges. 8. A system as recited in claim 6 wherein the generally annular clutch plate is an annular section. 9. A system as recited in claim 6 wherein the generally annular clutch plate forms a closed ring. 10. A system as recited in claim 9 wherein the clutch plate comprises sections of reduced thickness to accommodate radial compression of the plate. 11. A system as recited in claim 9 wherein the clutch plate comprises: at least two annular sections each section having a first and a second end and an inner and outer surface; and a strip extending from the outer surface of each section and interconnecting the two sections wherein the thickness of the strip is less than the thickness of each section, wherein the first end of a first section is adjacent to a second end of a subsequent second section, and wherein the first end of the first section and the second end of the second section are inclined away from each other in a radially inward direction. 12. A system as recited in claim 6 further comprising a second annular plate, wherein the clutch plate is located within the second plate and is coupled to the second plate. 13. A system as recited in claim 12 further comprising: a slot extending from the inner portion toward the outer portion of the second plate; and a projection extending outwardly from the clutch plate and fitted within the slot, whereby rotation of the clutch plate causes the projection to engage a wall defined by the slot on the second plate and rotate the second plate. 14. A system as recited in claim 12 wherein a portion of the clutch plate is connected to the second plate. 15. A system as recited in claim 14 further comprising: a slot extending from the inner portion toward the outer portion of the second plate; and a projection extending outwardly from the clutch plate and fitted within the slot, whereby rotation of the clutch plate causes the projection to engage a wall defined by the slot on the second plate and rotate the second plate. 16. A system as recited in claim 12 wherein the shape altering material is a wire, the system further comprising: a terminal pad extending from each end of the wire wherein one terminal pad is coupled to one side surface of the annular clutch plate and wherein the second terminal pad is coupled to an opposite side surface of the annular clutch plate; a first electrically conductive connector plate having a central opening and coupled to a first side surface of the second annular plate and coupled to the first terminal pad; and a second electrically conductive connector plate having a central opening coupled to a second side surface of the second annular plate opposite the first side surface and coupled to the second terminal pad, wherein the energy source is coupled to the first and second connector plates. 17. A system as recited in claim 16 further comprising: a first electrical brush coupled to the energy source and coupled to the first connector plate; and a second electrical brush coupled to the energy source and to the second connector plate. 18. A system as recited in claim 16 further comprising a geared surface extending laterally from one of said first and second connector plates and coaxially with said clutch plate wherein said geared surface surrounds the opening of said one connector plate. 19. A system as recited in claim 16 wherein a geared surface is formed on the outer surface of the second annular plate. 20. A system as recited in claim 1 wherein the shape altering material comprises a material selected from the group consisting of shape memory alloys, electroceramics and electroactive polymers. 21. A system as recited in claim 2 further comprising another shape altering material coupled to the second clutch, said another altering material having a first shape or a second shape when supplied with energy and having the other of said first and second shapes when not supplied with energy, wherein as said another shape altering material achieves a first shape is causes the second clutch to engage the driving member and be driven by said driving member thereby transferring power from the driving member to the second driven member. 22. A system as recited in claim 1 wherein the clutch surface is an inner surface of a clutch plate and wherein the shape altering material is mounted on the clutch plate. 23. A system as recited in claim 22 wherein when the driving member drives the clutch surface, the driving member drives the clutch plate along with the shape altering material. 24. A clutch/gear assembly: an annular clutch having an inner surface for engaging a driving member and an outer surface opposite the inner surface and opposite side surfaces therebetween; an annular member, wherein the clutch is located within the annular member and is coupled to said annular member; and a shape altering material wire around the outer surface, wherein the shape altering material wire can achieve a first shape and a second shape, wherein the shape altering material wire achieves one of said first or second shapes when supplied with energy and achieves the remaining one of said first or second shapes when it is not supplied with energy, wherein as the shape altering material wire achieves a first shape it applies a force for causing the engagement of the annular clutch inner surface with the driving member such that the driving member drives the annular clutch and wherein when the shape altering material wire achieves a second shape it allows the clutch to return to its original position. 25. A system as recited in claim 24 wherein inner surface of the clutch comprises ridges. 26. A system as recited in claim 24 wherein the generally annular clutch plate is an annular section. 27. A system as recited in claim 24 wherein the generally annular clutch plate forms a closed ring. 28. A system as recited in claim 27 wherein the clutch plate comprises sections of reduced thickness to accommodate radial compression of the plate. 29. A system as recited in claim 27 wherein the clutch plate comprises: at least two annular sections each section having a first and a second end and an inner and outer surface; and a strip extending from the outer surface of each section and interconnecting the two sections wherein the thickness of the strip is less than the thickness of each section, wherein the first end of a first section is adjacent to a second end of a subsequent second section, and wherein the first end of the first section and the second end of the second section are inclined away from each other in a radially inward direction. 30. A system as recited in claim 24 comprising: a slot formed on the annular member; and a projection extending outwardly from the clutch and fitted within the slot, whereby rotation of the clutch causes the projection to engage a wall defined by the slot on the annular member and rotate the annular member. 31. A system as recited in claim 24 wherein a portion of the clutch is connected to the annular member. 32. A system as recited in claim 31 further comprising: a slot formed on the annular member; and a projection extending outwardly from the clutch and fitted within the slot, whereby rotation of the clutch causes the projection to engage a wall defined by the slot on the annular member and rotate the annular member. 33. A system as recited in claim 24 further comprising: a terminal pad extending from each end of the wire wherein one terminal pad is coupled to one side surface of the annular clutch and wherein the second terminal pad is coupled to an opposite side surface of the annular clutch; a first electrically conductive connector plate for coupling to an energy source and having a central opening and coupled to a first side surface of the annular member and coupled to the first terminal pad; and a second electrically conductive connector plate for coupling to an energy source and having a central opening and coupled to a second side surface of the annular member opposite the first side surface and coupled to the second terminal pad. 34. A system as recited in claim 33 further comprising a geared surface extending laterally from one of said first and second connector plates and coaxially with said clutch wherein said geared surface surrounds the opening of said one connector plate. 35. A system as recited in claim 24 wherein a geared surface is formed on the outer surface of the annular member. 36. A system as recited in claim 24 wherein the shape altering material wire comprises a material selected from the group consisting of shape memory alloys, electroceramics and electroactive polymers. 37. The assembly as recited in claim 24 wherein the shape altering material wire is mounted on the annular clutch. 38. A system as recited in claim 37 wherein when the driving member drives the annular clutch, the driving member drives the annular clutch along with the shape altering material. 39. A clutch system comprising: a driving member coupled to a motor; a clutch comprising a shape altering material, the clutch comprising a clutch surface for engaging a driving member wherein the shape altering material can achieve a first shape and a second shape, wherein the shape altering material achieves one of said first or second shapes when supplied with energy and achieves the remaining one of said first or second shapes when it is not supplied with energy, wherein as the shape altering material achieves a first shape it causes the clutch surface to engage and be driven by said driving member and wherein when the shape altering material achieves a second shape the clutch surface disengages from the driving member; and an energy source coupled to the shape altering alloy material. 40. A clutch system as recited in claim 39 wherein the clutch further comprises a power transmitting surface. 41. A clutch system as recited in claim 40 wherein the power transmitting surface is a geared surface. 42. A clutch system as recited in claim 39 further comprising a power transmitting member coupled to the clutch for transmitting the power of the motor when the clutch surface engages the driving member. 43. A clutch system as recited in claim 42 wherein the power transmitting member is a gear. 44. A method for operating a device comprising: coupling a member of the device to a clutch surface; coupling a shape altering material to the clutch surface; and controlling energy applied to the shape altering material altering the shape of said shape altering material for actuating the clutch surface causing the clutch surface to couple to and be driven by a motor for moving the member. 45. A method as recited in claim 44 further comprising: coupling a second member of the device to a second clutch surface; coupling a second shape altering material to the second clutch surface; and controlling energy applied to the second shape altering material altering the shape of said second shape altering material for actuating the second clutch surface causing the second clutch surface to couple to and be driven by the motor for moving the second member. 46. A method as recited in claim 45 wherein the two clutch surfaces are actuated in accordance with a software routine. 47. A method as recited in claim 45 further comprising: coupling a third member of the device to a third clutch surface; coupling a third shape altering material to the third clutch surface; and controlling energy applied to the third shape altering material altering the shape of said third shape altering material for actuating the third clutch surface causing the third clutch surface to couple to and be driven by the motor for moving the third member. 48. A system as recited in claim 39 wherein when the driving member drives the clutch surface, the driving member drives the clutch with the shape altering material. 49. A clutch/gear assembly: an annular clutch having an inner surface for engaging a driving member and an outer surface opposite the inner surface and opposite side surfaces therebetween; an annular member, wherein the clutch is located within the annular member and is coupled to said annular member; a shape altering material wire around the outer surface, wherein the shape altering material wire can achieve a first shape and a second shape, wherein the shape altering material wire achieves one of said first or second shapes when supplied with energy and achieves the remaining one of said first or second shapes when it is not supplied with energy, wherein as the shape altering material wire achieves a first shape it applies a force for causing the engagement of the annular clutch inner surface with the driving member and wherein when the shape altering material wire achieves a second shape it allows the clutch to return to its original position; a slot extending from an inner portion toward an outer portion of the annular member; and a projection extending outwardly from the clutch and fitted within the slot, whereby rotation of the clutch causes the projection to engage a wall defined by the slot on the annular member and rotate the annular member. 50. A clutch/gear assembly: an annular clutch having an inner surface for engaging a driving member and an outer surface opposite the inner surface and opposite side surfaces therebetween; an annular member, wherein the clutch is located within the annular member and is connected to said annular member; a shape altering material wire around the outer surface, wherein the shape altering material wire can achieve a first shape and a second shape, wherein the shape altering material wire achieves one of said first or second shapes when supplied with energy and achieves the remaining one of said first or second shapes when it is not supplied with energy, wherein as the shape altering material wire achieves a first shape it applies a force for causing the engagement of the annular clutch inner surface with the driving member and wherein when the shape altering material wire achieves a second shape it allows the clutch to return to its original position; a slot extending from an inner portion toward an outer portion of the annular member; and a projection extending outwardly from the clutch and fitted within the slot, whereby rotation of the clutch causes the projection to engage a wall defined by the slot on the annular member and rotate the annular member. 51. A clutch/gear assembly: an annular clutch having an inner surface for engaging a driving member and an outer surface opposite the inner surface and opposite side surfaces therebetween; an annular member, wherein the clutch is located within the annular member and is coupled to said annular member; a shape altering material wire around the outer surface, wherein the shape altering material wire can achieve a first shape and a second shape, wherein the shape altering material wire achieves one of said first or second shapes when supplied with energy and achieves the remaining one of said first or second shapes when it is not supplied with energy, wherein as the shape altering material wire achieves a first shape it applies a force for causing the engagement of the annular clutch inner surface with the driving member and wherein when the shape altering material wire achieves a second shape it allows the clutch to return to its original position; a terminal pad extending from each end of the wire wherein one terminal pad is coupled to one side surface of the annular clutch and wherein the second terminal pad is coupled to an opposite side surface of the annular clutch; a first electrically conductive connector plate for coupling to an energy source and coupled to a first side surface of the annular member and coupled to the first terminal pad; and a second electrically conductive connector plate for coupling to an energy source and coupled to a second side surface of the annular member opposite the first side surface and coupled to the second terminal pad. 52. A system as recited in claim 51 further comprising a geared surface extending laterally from one of said first and second connector plates and coaxially with said clutch wherein said geared surface surrounds the opening of said one connector plate. 53. A system as recited in claim 51 wherein each of the first and electrically conductive connector plates have central openings. 