A multi-station robotic welding assembly includes a mounting platform, and a plurality of robots attached to the mounting platform and located in respective weld stations. Each of the robots includes an elongated movable arm and wrist. A welding torch is attached to each of the robots, and is adapted for being manipulated by the movable arm and wrist. A rotatable fixture base is located on the mounting platform, and is adapted for supporting a plurality of fixtures. Each of the fixtures is adapted for holding and positioning a workpiece for welding in respective weld stations. A base indexer is adapted for repeatedly rotating the fixture base by a predetermined degree, such that the fixtures are positioned within respective weld stations for an index interval sufficient to complete welding of the workpieces.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-station robotic welding assembly, comprising: (a) a mounting platform; (b) a plurality of robots attached to said mounting platform and located in respective weld stations, each of said robots comprising an elongated movable arm and wrist; (c) a welding torch attached to each of said robots and adapted for being manipulated by said movable arm and wrist; (d) a rotatable fixture base located on said mounting platform and adapted for supporting a plurality of fixtures, each of the fixtures adapted for holding and positioning a workpiece for welding in respective weld stations, wherein said fixture base comprises a junction box containing an electrical D-ring connector adapted for enabling continuous 360 degree rotation of said fixture base; and (e) a base indexer adapted for repeatedly rotating said fixture base by a predetermined degree, such that the fixtures are positioned within respective weld stations for an index interval sufficient to complete welding of the workpieces. 2. A multi-station robotic welding assembly according to claim 1, wherein said fixture base comprises a plurality of fixture indexers adapted for carrying respective fixtures, and for repeatedly rotating the fixtures and workpieces in respective weld stations by a predetermined degree during welding. 3. A multi-station robotic welding assembly according to claim 2, wherein each fixture indexer comprises eight discrete positions. 4. A multi-station robotic welding assembly according to claim 2, wherein said fixture Indexers are spaced 120 degrees apart. 5. A multi-station robotic welding assembly according to claim 1, and comprising a station shield located between each of said weld stations for shielding and protecting a surrounding area during welding. 6. A multi-station robotic welding assembly according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of industrial robots comprises two robots located in respective first and second weld stations. 7. A multi-station robotic welding assembly according to claim 6, and comprising an operator station located between said first and second weld stations for loading and unloading the workpieces. 8. A multi-station robotic welding assembly, comprising: (a) a mounting platform; (b) a plurality of robots attached to said mounting platform and located in respective weld stations, each of said robots comprising an elongated movable arm and wrist; (c) a welding torch attached to each of said robots and adapted for being manipulated by said movable arm end wrist; (d) a rotatable fixture base located on said mounting platform, wherein said fixture base comprises a junction box containing an electrical D-ring connector adapted for enabling continuous 360 degree rotation of said fixture base; (e) a plurality of fixtures supported on said fixture base, each of said fixtures adapted for holding and positioning a workpiece for welding in respective weld stations; and (f) a base indexer adapted for repeatedly rotating said fixture base by a predetermined degree, such that said fixtures are positioned within respective weld stations for an index interval sufficient to complete welding of the workpieces. 9. A multi-station robotic welding assembly according to claim 8, wherein said fixture base comprises a plurality of fixture indexers adapted for carrying respective fixtures, and for repeatedly rotating the fixtures and workpieces in respective weld stations by a predetermined degree during welding. 10. A multi-station robotic welding assembly according to claim 9, wherein each fixture indexer comprises eight discrete positions. 11. A multi-station robotic welding assembly according to claim 9, wherein said fixture indexers are spaced 120 degrees apart. 12. A multi-station robotic welding assembly according to claim 9, wherein said plurality of industrial robots comprises two robots located in respective first and second weld stations. 13. A multi-station robotic welding assembly according to claim 12, and comprising an operator station located between said first and second weld stations for loading and unloading the workpieces. 14. A multi-station robotic welding assembly according to claim 8, and comprising a station shield located between each of said weld stations for shielding and protecting a surrounding area during welding. 15. A multi-station robotic welding assembly, comprising: (a) a plurality of robots mounted on a supporting surface and located in respective weld stations, each of said robots comprising an elongated movable arm and wrist; (b) a welding torch attached to each of said robots and adapted for being manipulated by said movable arm and wrist; (c) a rotatable fixture base adapted for supporting a plurality of fixtures, each of the fixtures adapted for holding and positioning a workpiece for welding in respective weld stations, wherein said fixture base comprises a junction box containing an electrical D-ring connector adapted for enabling continuous 360 degree rotation of said fixture base; and (d) a base indexer adapted for repeatedly rotating said fixture base by a predetermined degree, such that the fixtures are positioned within respective weld stations for an index interval sufficient to complete welding of the workpieces. 16. A method for welding a workpiece comprising the steps of: (a) loading a first workpieces into a first fixture located in an operator's station; (b) indexing the first fixture to locate the first workpiece in a first weld station; (c) welding a first portion of the first workpiece in the first weld station; (d) during the welding process of step (c), loading a second workpiece into a second fixture located n the operators station; (e) indexing the first and second fixtures to locate the first and second workpieces in respective second and first weld stations; (f) welding a first portion of the second workpiece in the first weld station while simultaneously welding a second portion of the first workpiece in the second weld station; (g) during the welding process of step (f), loading a third workpiece into a third fixture located in the operators station; (h) indexing the first, second, and third fixtures to locate the first, second, and third workpieces in the operator's station, the second weld station, and the first weld station, respectively; (i) welding a first portion of the third workpiece in the first weld station while simultaneously welding a second portion of the second workpiece in the second weld station; and (j) during the welding process of step (i), removing the first workpiece from the first fixture in the operator's station. 