A system and method for dispensing a sample using a self-dispensing system including a sample storage device, a dispensing mechanism, and a driving mechanism for driving the dispensing mechanism. The dispensing mechanism is formed as part of and is in dispensing communication with the sample storage device. Preferably the dispensing mechanism is a positive displacement type dispensing mechanism and includes an inlet valve, an actuator, and an outlet valve. The driving mechanism may be positioned internal or external to the dispensing mechanism and drives the dispensing mechanism thereby inducing a flow of a measured quantity of the sample into or out of the storage device. Preferably, the dispensing mechanism is relatively inexpensive and is disposable. The system and method may include an individual dispensing mechanism having a single storage device and a single dispensing mechanism, or alternatively, may include a plurality of storage devices each having a corresponding dispensing mechanism arranged in, for example, a plate. The self-dispensing system of the present invention is preferably implemented in an automated system having one or more robots for positioning the samples to be dispensed. The system and method provide for precision and reproducible dispensing of a sample with improved efficiency and throughput by eliminating the need for tip changes and washes between each sample transfer operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self-dispensing system for dispensing a measured quantity or volume of a sample comprising: one or more disposable storage devices for holding a sample to be dispensed; a dispensing mechanism connected to each of said one or more storage devices, said dispensing mechanism being in dispensing communication with said storage device for precisely dispensing a measured quantity of said sample from said storage device; and a driving mechanism that drives said dispensing mechanism thereby dispensing said sample, wherein said driving mechanism is positioned external to the dispensing mechanism and does not come into contact with said sample. 2. The self-dispensing system of claim 1, wherein said one or more disposable storage devices comprises a multi-well plate, wherein each of said wells of said multi-well plate has a corresponding dispensing mechanism. 3. The self-dispensing system of claim 2, wherein said multi-well plate further comprises a standard microtiter plate having a plurality of wells on evenly spaced centers. 4. The self-dispensing system of claim 3, wherein said standard microtiter plate further comprises one or more of a 4-well plate, a 24-well plate, a 96-well plate, a 384-well plate, a 1536 well plate, and a 9600-well plate. 5. The self-dispensing system of claim 4, wherein said standard microtiter plate further comprises one or more of a 96-well plate with wells on about 9 mm centers having a capacity of about 30 microliters to about 1500 microliters and a 96-well plate with wells on about 1 mm centers having a capacity of about 1 microliters. 6. The self-dispensing system of claim 1, wherein said storage device comprises: a reservoir for holding said sample; and at least one opening in said reservoir for communicating a sample between said reservoir and said dispensing mechanism. 7. The self-dispensing system of claim 6, wherein said storage device comprises a collapsible reservoir. 8. The self-dispensing system of claim 6, wherein said storage device comprises a semi-rigid reservoir having a dispensed volume replacement mechanism for replacing a volume equal to a volume of said measured quantity of said dispensed sample. 9. The self-dispensing system of claim 1, wherein said dispensing mechanism comprises a positive displacement pump-type dispensing mechanism capable of precisely and reproducibly dispensing a measured quantity of said sample. 10. The self-dispensing system of claim 1, wherein said dispensing mechanism dispenses a reproducible measured volume for each of said dispensed measured quantity of said sample to an accuracy of about 5 microliters. 11. The self dispensing system of claim 1, wherein said dispensing mechanism dispenses a reproducible measured volume for each of said dispensed measured quantity of said sample to an accuracy of about 1 microliters. 12. The self-dispensing system of claim 1, wherein said dispensing mechanism dispenses a reproducible measured volume for each of said dispensed measured quantity of said sample to an accuracy of about 0.5 microliters. 13. The self-dispensing system of claim 1, wherein said dispensing mechanism dispenses a reproducible measured volume for each of said dispensed measured quantity of said sample to an accuracy of about 0.1 microliters. 14. The self-dispensing system of claim 9, wherein said positive displacement pump-type dispensing mechanism further comprises: an inlet valve having an inlet opening for receiving said sample to be dispensed from said storage device; an actuator fluidly connected to said inlet valve for dispensing said sample; and an outlet valve fluidly connected to said actuator for receiving and controlling a flow of said dispensed sample from said actuator. 15. The self-dispensing system of claim 9, wherein said positive-displacement pump-type dispensing mechanism further comprises: an inlet valve selectively moveable between an open position wherein said inlet valve allows a flow of said sample from said storage device to said actuator and a closed position wherein said inlet valve prevents a flow of said sample from said actuator back into said storage device; an actuator having a suction stroke that draws a sample from said reservoir as said actuator moves in a first direction, and a discharge stroke that pushes said sample out as said actuator move in a second direction; and an outlet valve which is selectively movable between an open position wherein said outlet valve allows said sample to be dispensed on said discharge stoke and a closed position wherein said outlet valve prevents air from entering said actuator. 16. The self dispensing ing system of claim 9, wherein said dispensing mechanism comprises a cow udder type of dispensing mechanism. 17. The self-dispensing system of claim 1, further comprising a filter disposed between said storage device and said dispensing system. 18. The self-dispensing system of claim 1, wherein said self-dispensing storage device, with its sample, are freezable to at least about -20.degree. C., and is capable of being thawed and dispensed. 19. The self-dispensing system of claim 1, wherein at least said storage device and said dispensing mechanism are disposable after said sample has been completely dispensed. 20. The self-dispensing system of claim 1, wherein said driving mechanism activates one or more of said dispensing mechanisms corresponding to said one or more storage device at a time. 21. The self-dispensing system of claim 1, further comprising an automated system having one or more robots for positioning said self-dispensing storage device with respect to a workstation or another storage device and a controller for initiating a dispensing operation of said sample by said self-dispensing storage device. 22. A self-dispensing system comprising: a first self-dispensing storage device comprising: a storage device having one or more reservoirs for holding a sample to be dispensed; one or more corresponding dispensing mechanisms connected to and in dispensing communication with each of said one or more reservoirs of said storage device; a second self-dispensing storage device comprising: a storage device having one or more reservoirs for holding a sample to be dispensed; one or more corresponding dispensing mechanisms connected to and in dispensing communication with each of said one or more reservoirs of said storage device; a driving mechanism for driving said dispensing mechanism of said first self-dispensing storage device, wherein said driving mechanism is positioned external to the dispensing mechanism and does not come into contact with said sample; and wherein a precise and reproducible measured volume of said sample is dispensed from said one or more reservoirs of said first self-dispensing storage device to said one or more reservoirs of said second self-dispensing storage device. 23. The self-dispersing system of claim 22, further comprising a robotic system having one or more robots for positioning said first self-dispensing storage device in relation to said second self-dispensing storage device. 24. The self-dispensing system of claim 23, wherein said first self-dispensing storage device is positioned over said second self-dispensing storage device. 25. The self-dispensing system of claim 23, wherein said one or more robots have positioning and transferring features for locating said robots and said self-dispensing storage devices with respect to one another and for dispensing said measured volume of said sample. 