A method and apparatus for dynamic thresholding of grayscale images to delineate image attributes is disclosed. The system includes a picker assembly, an imager disposed on picker assembly, illumination sources disposed at the picker assembly and a processor, coupled to the imager and illumination sources, for processing image data obtained from the imager and for controlling the illumination sources, wherein the processor applies dynamic image thresholding to the image to select an optimum gray scale level of the image, the image expected to include a desired physical feature. The processor performs dynamic image thresholding by identifying a region of interest around the area where the intersection is expected to be, thresholding the portion of the image within the region of interest with an experimental value, calculating the ratio of black pixels to the total number of pixels, using a search method that is based on a histogram of the ratio across the threshold spectrum to actively search for a threshold value that produces a closest match to the target ratio value and thresholding the entire image with the threshold value producing the closest match to the target value.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An imaging picker system for use in aligning a tape cartridge accessor with cartridges in cells of a tape cartridge magazine, comprising: a picker assembly; an imager disposed on the picker assembly; illumination sources disposed on the picker assembly; and a processor, coupled to the imager and illumination sources, for processing image data obtained from the imager and for controlling the illumination sources; wherein the processor applies dynamic image thresholding to the image to select an optimum gray scale level of the image, the image expected to include a desired physical feature and wherein the processor performs dynamic image thresholding by identifying a region of interest around the area where the desired physical feature is expected to be, thresholding the portion of the image within the region of interest with an experimental gray scale value, calculating the ratio of black pixels to the total number of pixels, and using a search method based on a histogram of the ratio across the threshold spectrum to actively search for the threshold value that produces a closest match to the target ratio value. 2. The imaging picker system of claim 1 wherein the thresholding the portion of the image within the region of interest with an experimental value sets any pixel with a value greater than the threshold to black and any pixel with a lesser value to white. 3. The imaging picker system of claim 1 wherein the applying dynamic image thresholding includes setting any pixel with a value greater than the threshold to black and any pixel with a lesser value to white. 4. A method for use in aligning a tape cartridge accessor with cartridges in cells of a tape library, comprising: illuminating an object with an illumination source; gathering image data for the illuminated object; and processing the image data by applying dynamic image thresholding to the image to select an optimum gray scale level of the image expected to include a desired physical feature; wherein the dynamic image thresholding further comprises identifying a region of interest around the area where the desired physical feature is expected to be, thresholding the portion of the image within the region of interest with an experimental value, calculating the ratio of black pixels to the total number of pixels, using a search method that is based upon a histogram of the ratio across the threshold spectrum to actively search for a threshold value that produces a closest match to the target ratio value and thresholding the entire image with the threshold value producing the closest match to the target value. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the thresholding the portion of the image within the region of interest with an experimental value sets any pixel with a value greater than the threshold to black and any pixel with a lesser value to white. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the applying dynamic image thresholding includes setting any pixel with a value greater than the threshold to black and any pixel with a lesser value to white. 7. An article of manufacture comprising a program storage medium readable by a computer, the medium tangibly embodying one or more programs of instructions executable by the computer to perform a method for use in aligning a tape cartridge accessor with cartridges in cells of a tape cartridge magazine, the method comprising: illuminating an object with an illumination source; gathering image data for the illuminated object; and processing the image data by applying dynamic image thresholding to the image to select an optimum gray scale level of the image expected to include a desired physical feature; wherein the dynamic image thresholding further comprises identifying a region of interest around the area where the desired physical feature is expected to be, thresholding the portion of the image within the region of interest with an experimental value, calculating the ratio of black pixels to the total number of pixels, using a search method that is based upon a histogram of the ratio across the threshold spectrum to actively search for a threshold value that produces a closest match to the target ratio value and thresholding the entire image with the threshold value producing the closest match to the target value. 8. The article of manufacture of claim 7, wherein the thresholding the portion of the image within the region of interest with an experimental value sets any pixel with a value greater than the threshold to black and any pixel with a lesser value to white. 9. The article of manufacture of claim 7 wherein the applying dynamic image thresholding includes setting any pixel with a value greater than the threshold to black and any pixel with a lesser value to white. 10. An imaging picker system for use in aligning a tape cartridge accessor with cartridges in cells of a tape library, comprising: a picker assembly; illuminating means disposed on the picker assembly for illuminating an object; and imaging means disposed on the picker assembly for gathering image data for the illuminated object; processing means, coupled to the imaging means and the illuminating means, for processing the image data obtained from the imaging means and for controlling the illuminating means; wherein the processing means applies dynamic image thresholding to the image to select an optimum gray scale level of the image, the image expected to include a desired physical feature; wherein the processing means performs dynamic image thresholding by identifying a region of interest around the area where the desired physical feature is expected to be, thresholding the portion of the image within the region of interest with an experimental value, calculating the ratio of black pixels to the total number of pixels, using a search method based upon a histogram of the ratio across the threshold spectrum to actively search for a threshold value that produces a closest match to the target ratio value and thresholding the entire image with the threshold value producing the closest match to the target value. 11. The imaging picker system of claim 10, wherein the processing means thresholds the portion of the image within the region of interest with an experimental value by setting any pixel with a value greater than the threshold to black and any pixel with a lesser value to white. 12. The imaging picker system of claim 10 wherein the processing means applies dynamic image thresholding by setting any pixel with a value greater than the threshold to black and any pixel with a lesser value to white. 