A method of finishing like castings wherein the exact dimensions of the casting are not known requires the steps of traversing the casting along a fixed path impinging excess material on a reduction apparatus such as grinder at a fixed location such that a defined witness is produced on the excess material, measuring the difference from the witness to the casting parent material and adjusting the fixed path to remove the excess material to within a specified tolerance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for removing excess material from a casting body wherein the casting dimensional tolerance is approximately equal to or greater than the required finished product tolerance, said method comprising the steps of: a) establishing a fixed path of coincidence between a material removal station and a casting wherein the closest point of approach of a casting body exceeds the sum of the casting dimensional tolerance and the finished product tolerance; b) iteratively causing the casting body and said removal station to come into coincidence along the fixed path to remove excess material until no further excess material is removed, thereby defining a witness surface on said excess material; c) measuring the dimensional offset from the edge of said witness surface to the adjacent casting body on at least two points on said witness surface; d) calculating an offset from said fixed path for each measured dimensional offset to determine a new path of coincidence between the casting body and said material removal station within said finished product tolerance; and e) traversing said new path until said excess material is reduced to less than the finished product tolerance. 2. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said traversing step is accomplished using an industrial robot having a repeatability tolerance less than said finished product tolerance. 3. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said establishing step and said calculating step are performed by a computer. 4. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein said traversing step is accomplished using a controllable machine for traversing said fixed and new path having a repeatability tolerance less than said finished product tolerance and operatively connected to said computer to receive instructions for traversing said fixed path and subsequently said new path. 5. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein said measuring step is accomplished using a precision measuring device, selected from the group of laser measuring devices and linear voltage displacement transducers, having an electronic output to said computer. 6. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said fixed path allows the material removal station to remove excess material on the casting body at selected locations on the casting body to define a witness surface at each selected location. 7. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said fixed path allows for coincidence between the casting body and more than one material removal station. 8. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said fixed path includes sub paths. 9. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said step d) further includes the step of: calculating a translational offset from said fixed path. 10. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said step d) further includes the step of: calculating a rotational offset from said fixed path. 11. A method for removing excess material from a casting body comprising the steps of: a) positioning the casting body such that any excess material thereon is accessible; b) establishing a fixed path of coincidence between the casting body and a material removal station wherein the closest point of approach of the casting body positioned on said robot exceeds the sum of a specified casting dimensional tolerance and a finished casting tolerance and whereat said excess material is coincident said material removing station; c) iteratively traversing said fixed path to remove excess material from specified locations on the casting body until no further material is removed, thereby defining a witness on said excess material at each said specified location; d) measuring the distance from an edge of the witness at each location to the casting body at at least two points on said witness utilizing a measuring device selected from the group of laser measuring systems and linear voltage displacement transducers; e) calculating an offset from said fixed path for each distance to determine a new path of coincidence between the casting body and said material removal station within said finished casting tolerance; and f) iteratively traversing said new path until said excess material is reduced to less than the finished casting tolerance. 12. The method as defined in claim 11 wherein said establishing step and said calculating step are performed using a computer. 13. The method as defined in claim 11 wherein said excess material is a by-product of casting the casting body. 14. The method as defined in claim 11 wherein step e) further comprises the step of: calculating a translational offset. 15. The method as defined in claim 11 wherein step e) further comprises the step of: calculating a rotational offset. 16. A method of finishing castings having excess material thereon wherein the exact dimensions of the casting are not known, said method comprising the steps of: a) creating a movement of the casting along a fixed path; b) impinging excess material appurtenant the casting on a reduction apparatus at a fixed location such that a defined witness is produced on the excess material; c) measuring the difference from an edge of said witness to the adjacent casting material; and, d) adjusting the fixed path to remove the excess material to within a specified tolerance. 17. The method as defined in claim 16 wherein step a) further comprises the step of: repositioning the casting using a robotic arm connected to a computer. 18. The method as defined in claim 16 wherein step b) further comprises the step of: engaging the excess material with a grinding apparatus. 19. The method as defined in claim 16 wherein step c) further comprises the step of: determining the height of the excess material above the desired surface level using a precision measuring device connected to a computer. 