An apparatus and method for detecting mispositioned wafers attributable to transfer shift of the wafer are disclosed. A calibration wafer has a target region comprising a pattern of optically distinguishable features from which is determined the position of the calibration wafer within the chamber subsequent to its transfer therein. Preferably, the features comprise a pattern of colors that can be detected by spectroscopy. A preferred form and manner of providing such color features is by way of dielectric thin film filters.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Wafer position calibration apparatus for a process chamber comprising: a calibration wafer placed within the process chamber, said calibration wafer including features thereon having known orientations to the calibration wafer, wherein said features have a plurality of regions each associated with a reflected spectrum center wavelength; and, a detector effective to optically recognize said features and determine therefrom the position of the calibration wafer within the process chamber, wherein each of said reflected spectrum center wavelength is further associated with a respective bandwidth. 2. The wafer position calibration apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said features comprise thin film interference filters. 3. The wafer position calibration apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said features comprise regions characterized by respective reliefs. 4. The wafer position calibration apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said features define a pattern that is centrally oriented with respect to the calibration wafer. 5. The wafer position calibration apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said pattern comprises a checkerboard pattern. 6. The wafer position calibration apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said pattern comprises a first region substantially centrally oriented with respect to the calibration wafer and a second region perimetrically bounding said first region. 7. The wafer position calibration apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein the detector discriminates reflective spectrum. 8. The wafer position calibration apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein the detector comprises a spectroscopic interferometer. 9. The wafer position calibration apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein the detector includes a broad band light source. 10. A calibration wafer for use in a process chamber, said chamber including a spectroscope and associated broad band light source, the calibration wafer comprising: a first region within a larger target region, said first region substantially coincident with the center of said calibration wafer and characterized by a central wavelength spectral distribution; and a second region within said target region perimetrically bounding said first region. 11. The calibration wafer as claimed in claim 10 wherein the second region comprises a plurality of sub-regions, each of said plurality of subregions characterized by an associated respective reflected spectrum center wavelength. 12. The calibration wafer as claimed in claim 11 wherein the sub-regions are concentrically distributed. 13. The calibration wafer as claimed in claim 11 wherein the sub-regions are perimetrically distributed. 14. The calibration wafer as claimed in claim 11 wherein the sub-regions are further divided perimetrically. 15. The calibration wafer as claimed in claim 10 wherein said regions comprise dielectric thin film filters. 16. Method of wafer transfer calibration in a process chamber comprising the steps: providing a calibration wafer characterized by features thereon having known orientations to the calibration wafer, wherein said features comprise different colors; robotically transferring into the chamber a calibration wafer; from outside of the chamber, optically detecting the features on the calibration wafer by use of spectroscopy; relating the detected features to a predetermined mapping of said features relative to the calibration wafer; and, determining from said related features and mapping of said features the position of the calibration wafer in the chamber. 17. The method of wafer transfer calibration in a process chamber as claimed in claim 16 wherein the step of transferring comprises prealigning the calibration wafer. 18. The method of wafer transfer calibration in a process chamber as claimed in claim 16 wherein the features comprise different heights and optically detecting the features comprises interferometry. 19. The method of wafer transfer calibration in a process chamber as claimed in claim 16 further comprising the step of adjusting subsequent robotic transfers in accordance with the determined position of the calibration wafer. 