A sprayable protective coating for preventing excessive aircraft and aircraft engine component deterioration caused by environmental variations comprises a water borne latex-based mixture, an additive for controlling the dielectric constant of the cured coating, and a catalyst for enabling the chemical reaction between the additive, de-ionized water for thinning material and the latex-based liquid. The process for applying and curing the coating uses a robotic spraying device and an iterative heating and soaking curing procedure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for applying a sprayable erosion coating to at least one of an aircraft component and an aircraft engine component, said method comprising the steps of: a) preparing the component for application of said coating; b) applying a coating composition comprising latex to said component by spraying to produce a coated component; c) curing said coated component by air at about room temperature to produce an air cured coated component; and d) post curing the air cured coated component, wherein the temperature of said air cured coated component is gradually elevated from about room temperature to about 400 degrees Fahrenheit, at a rate of from about 100 degrees Fahrenheit per hour to about 140 degrees Fahrenheit per hour. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of preparing the component comprises the steps of: a) grit blasting; b) pressure washing said component to substantially completely remove excess grit; and c) priming the pressure washed component. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein said grit blasting is from an impingement angle from about 10 degrees to about 90 degrees. 4. A method according to claim 2, wherein said grit blasting comprises a grit size from about 60 grit to about 100 grit. 5. A method according to claim 2, wherein said grit blasting is from a stand off distance from about 4 inches to 12 inches. 6. A method according b claim 2, wherein said grit blasting is at a pressure from about 20 pounds to 100 pounds per square inch. 7. A method according to claim 1, comprising robotic spraying of said coating. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein, said air cured coated aircraft component is heat soaked for one hour at temperature increments of about 50 degrees Fahrenheit, starting at about 150 degrees Fahrenheit. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein said air cured coated component is heat soaked for up to about 5 hours at 400 degrees Fahrenheit. 