A positioning device precisely positions a work piece at a workstation. Precise positioning is accomplished through the use of a tool controller, a programmed mechanism, and a minimal pneumatic circuit. Pre-programming of the tool controller results in initially locating the work piece, precisely positioning the workpiece at the workstation, and then locking-in the position of the workpiece at the workstation time-after-time. A method for operating the positioning device is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A positioning device for positioning an automotive window glass at a workstation, comprising: a tool controller capable of storing automotive window glass positioning functions; and a programmed mechanism having the automotive window glass attached thereto and capable of accepting automotive window glass positioning function commands from the tool controller; wherein the tool controller commands the programmed mechanism by utilizing only a pre-programmed locating stop position to lock in a position of the automotive window glass upon a surface of a workstation in a relationship that abuts a single locating stop. 2. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein the automotive window glass positioning functions are initially developed and pre-programmed through joy stick simulation. 3. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein the automotive window glass positioning functions are initially developed and pre-programmed through computer simulation. 4. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein the workstation comprises an automotive window glass priming station. 5. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein a profile is extruded onto the automotive window glass. 6. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein the tool controller comprises a programmable logic controller. 7. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein the tool controller comprises a robot controller. 8. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein the tool controller comprises a personal computer. 9. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein the programmed mechanism comprises a robotic arm with end-of-arm tooling. 10. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein the programmed mechanism comprises conventional automated electro-mechanical tooling. 11. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein the programmed mechanism comprises a mounting structure having at least one aluminum plate. 12. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein the programmed mechanism comprises an actuator having a spring-loaded plunger. 13. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein the programmed mechanism comprises a fluid circuit having pneumatic components. 14. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein the programmed mechanism comprises a fluid circuit having hydraulic fluid components. 15. The positioning device according to claim 1, wherein, subsequently, the programmed mechanism removes the automotive window glass from the workstation surface and the relationship that abuts the locating stop. 16. A method of positioning an automotive window glass a workstation, comprising: storing only a pre-programmed locating stop position in a tool controller, the tool controller being capable of commanding a programmed mechanism, which has an automotive window glass attached thereto; commanding the programmed mechanism to lock in a position of the automotive window glass upon a surface of the workstation in a relationship that abuts a single locating stop, by utilizing the pre-programmed locating stop position; and removing the automotive window glass from the workstation surface and the relationship that abuts the locating stop. 17. The method as defined in claim 16, wherein the programmed mechanism comprises at least one mounting structure whereon an actuator, at least one fluid cylinder with a cylinder rod lock, a vacuum generator, and at least one vacuum cup are disposed. 18. The method as defined in claim 17, further comprising commanding the programmed mechanism to move toward an initial workstation that is accompanied by moving the cylinder into an initial position. 19. The method as defined in claim 16, wherein the automotive window glass is attached to a vacuum cup. 20. The method as defined in claim 16, wherein a rod lock is commanded to lock in the positioning of the automotive window glass in the relationship that abuts the locating stop. 21. The method of claim 16, further comprising priming the automotive window glass or extruding a profile onto the automotive window glass. 