A system for analyzing particles including: a source of solid particles; a sampler apparatus attached to and integral with the source of solid particles which apparatus is adapted to enable removal of small amounts of sample material from the source; a sonication cell connected to the sampling apparatus which sonication cell receives, optionally conditions, and sonicates the small amounts of sample material; a sample analysis apparatus connected to the sonication cell which sample analysis apparatus is adapted to receive, optionally further condition, and analyze the resulting sonicated sample received from the sonication cell; and a liquid pump and liquid carrying lines adapted to: withdraw aliqouts from the source; convey a withdrawn aliqout to the sonication cell and sample analysis apparatus; and flush the system free of residual aliqout contamination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for analyzing particles comprising: a source of solid particles; a sampler apparatus attached to and integral with the source of solid particles which apparatus is adapted to enable removal of small amounts of sample material from the source; a sonication cell connected to the sampling apparatus which sonication cell receives, optionally conditions, and sonicates the small amounts of sample material; a sample analysis apparatus connected to the sonication cell which sample analysis apparatus is adapted to receive, optionally further condition, and analyze the resulting sonicated sample received from the sonication cell; and a liquid pump and liquid carrying lines adapted to: withdraw aliqouts from the source; convey a withdrawn aliqout to the sonication cell and sample analysis apparatus; and flush the system free of residual aliqout contamination. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the source of solid particles is an emulsion-aggregation polymerization process reactorforming solid particles. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the sampler apparatus removes small amounts of sample material from the source in amounts of from about 0.1 mL to about 10 mL. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the sonication cell sonicates the sample material at from about 5 to about 75 kHz, and from about 0.1 to about 500 watts and for a duration of from about 0.1 to about 7200 seconds. 5. The system of claim 4, further comprising wherein the sonication cell further conditions the sample material with the addition of a dilutent liquid in an amount of from about 5 to about 500 weight percent based on the weight of the sample material. 6. The system of claim 4, further comprising wherein the sonication cell further conditions the sample material with the addition of at least one surfactant compound in an amount of from about 0.01 to about 30 weight percent based on the weight of the sample material. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein further comprising wherein the sample analysis apparatus conditions the sample by diluting the sample with a miscible liquid, treating with ionic media, removing air and replacing with an inert gas, or combinations thereof. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the liquid pump is a quick response reversible peristaltic pump. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the liquid carrying lines are corrosion resistant tubing and which tubing is resistant to distortion or deformation under internal pressures of from about 10 psi to about 1,000 psi. 10. A method comprising: periodically removing with a reversible pump, at intervals of from about 10 seconds to 10 hours, a sample of a liquid dispersion of solid particles from a container; sonicating the sample for a time; and analyzing the particles contained in the resulting sonicated sample. 11. A method in accordance with claim 10, further comprising diluting the sample with a mixture of a diluent and a surfactant prior to sonicating. 12. A method in accordance with claim 10, further comprising back flushing the lines used to handle the removed sample with a diluent and which diluent is compatible with the liquid used to form the liquid dispersion. 13. A method in accordance with claim 12, further comprising purging the back flushed lines with a gas to remove residual liquid. 14. A method in accordance with claim 10, wherein the removing is accomplished during the aggregation phase, the coalesence phase, or both phases, of an emulsion-aggregation polymerization process for forming solid particles. 15. A method in accordance with claim 10, wherein sonicating the sample is accomplished in a chamber equipped with a sonicator at from about 5 to about 75 kHz, and from about 0.1 to about 500 watts and for a duration of from about 0.1 to about 7200 seconds. 16. A method in accordance with claim 10, wherein analyzing particles in the sample is accomplished with a particle size analyzer. 