A method and apparatus for the use of individual vertically stacked ALD or CVD reactors. Individual reactors are independently operable and maintainable. The gas inlet and output are vertically configured with respect to the reactor chamber for generally axi-symmetric process control. The chamber design is modular in which cover and base plates forming the reactor have improved flow design.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus comprising: a frame having a low vertical profile relative to length and width dimensions and a central opening which forms a center of a processing chamber, said frame having one side opening to receive a material to be introduced into the processing chamber; a cover plate having a gas inlet and an inlet conduit integrated within said cover plate, wherein said inlet conduit is disposed horizontally from the gas inlet to an inlet port along a side to couple to a processing gas source; and a base plate having an exhaust opening and an exhaust conduit disposed horizontally from the exhaust opening to an exhaust port along a side to exhaust processing gas from the processing chamber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said exhaust conduit is integrated within said base plate. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a susceptor in the processing chamber coupled to a side of the frame to have the material reside thereon. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the susceptor is also a heater to heat the material resident thereon. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said cover plate and base plate are recessed to have a shaped surface to reduce open spaces along upper and lower comers of the processing chamber to improve processing gas flow in the processing chamber. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the shaped surface is cone-shaped. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the shaped surface is convex at a center of the processing chamber and concave at sidewalls of the processing chamber to provide a horn shape. 8. An apparatus comprising: a plurality of vertically stacked reactors to process a plurality of substrates in which a film material is deposited on the substrates by atomic layer deposition or chemical vapor deposition; said reactors being comprised of: (a) a frame having a low vertical profile relative to length and width dimensions and a central opening which forms a center of a processing chamber, said frame having one side opening to receive a material to be introduced into the processing chamber; (b) a cover plate having a gas inlet and an inlet conduit integrated within said cover plate, wherein said inlet conduit is disposed horizontally from the gas inlet to an inlet port along a side to couple to a processing gas source; and (c) a base plate having an exhaust opening and an exhaust conduit disposed horizontally from the exhaust opening to an exhaust port along a side to exhaust processing gas from the processing chamber. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the substrates to be processed are semiconductor wafers. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said exhaust conduit is integrated within said base plate. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 further including a susceptor in the processing chamber coupled to a side of the frame to have the material reside thereon. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the susceptor is also a heater to heat the material resident thereon. 13. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said cover plate and base plate are recessed to have a shaped surface to reduce open spaces along upper and lower comers of the processing chamber to improve processing gas flow in the processing chamber. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the shaped surface is cone-shaped. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the shaped surface is convex at a center of the processing chamber and concave at sidewalls of the processing chamber to provide a horn shape. 16. An apparatus comprising: a frame having a low vertical profile relative to length and width dimensions and a central opening which forms a center of a processing chamber, said frame having one side opening to receive a material to be introduced into the processing chamber; a susceptor in the processing chamber coupled to a side of the frame and configured to provide heat to the material residing thereon; a cover plate having a gas inlet and an inlet conduit, wherein said inlet conduit is disposed horizontally from the gas inlet to an inlet port along a side to couple to a processing gas source; and a base plate having an exhaust opening and an exhaust conduit disposed horizontally from the exhaust opening to an exhaust port along a side to exhaust processing gas from the processing chamber. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the susceptor is an electric heating element. 18. An apparatus comprising: a frame having a low vertical profile relative to length and width dimensions and a central opening which forms a center of a processing chamber, said frame having one side opening to receive a material to be introduced into the processing chamber; a cover plate having a gas inlet and an inlet conduit disposed horizontally from the gas inlet to an inlet port along a side to couple to a processing gas source; and a base plate having an exhaust opening and an exhaust conduit disposed horizontally from the exhaust opening to an exhaust port along a side to exhaust processing gas from the processing chamber, wherein said exhaust conduit is integrated within said base plate. 