A down hole tool and apparatus is described for logging and/or remedial operations in a wellbore in a hydrocarbon reservoir. The tool comprises an autonomous unit for measuring down hole conditions, preferably flow conditions. The autonomous unit comprises locomotion means for providing a motion along the wellbore; means for detecting the down hole conditions; and logic means for controlling the unit, the logic means being capable of making decisions based on at least two input parameters. It can be separably attached to a wireline unit connected to the surface or launched from the surface. The connection system between both units can be repeatedly operated under down hole conditions and preferably includes an active component for closing and/or breaking the connection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A down hole apparatus comprising: a body adapted to operate in a bore hole without a wired connection to the surface; a power supply located within the body; and a control system located within the body and designed such that while the body is operating in a bore hole without a wired connection the apparatus can operate independently without requiring intervention from the surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the control system comprises a processor that is programmed as a neural network or with fuzzy logic so as to enable a quasi-intelligent behavior under down hole conditions. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the apparatus is adapted for operating neutrally buoyant. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the apparatus further comprises a ballast system designed to give the apparatus neutral buoyancy. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the ballast system is adapted to release ballast material from the apparatus during operation. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a power generation system in electrical communication with the power supply. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the power supply comprises a battery and the power generation system is adapted and arranged to charge the battery. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the power generation system extracts energy from surrounding fluid in the bore hole. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the power generation system comprises a turbine which is adapted to extract energy by being exposed to the surrounding fluid. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the body is adapted to be deployed in the bore hole through the use of a deployment vehicle. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the deployment vehicle is a wireline unit. 12. A down hole system comprising a plurality of apparatuses according to claim 1. 13. The down hole system of claim 12 wherein the system is designed to carry out complex downhole operations by using the plurality of apparatuses. 14. The down hole system of claim 13 wherein the plurality of apparatuses are deployed in the bore hole using one or more deployment vehicles. 15. The downhole system of claim 14 wherein the one or more deployment vehicles are wireline units. 16. A method for operating a down hole apparatus comprising: deploying the apparatus in a bore hole; operating the apparatus in the bole hole without a wired connection to the surface the apparatus including a power supply located within the apparatus, and a control system within the apparatus designed such that the apparatus can operate independently without requiring intervention from the surface; and retrieving the apparatus from the bore hole. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the control system comprises a processor that is programmed as a neural network or with fuzzy logic so as to enable a quasi-intelligent behavior under down hole conditions. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of operating comprises operating the apparatus in a neutrally buoyant manner. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the step of operating further comprises releasing ballast material from the apparatus during operation. 20. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of generating electrical power and charging a battery associated with the apparatus. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the step of generating electrical power comprises extracting energy from surrounding fluid in the bore hole using a turbine exposed to the surrounding fluid. 22. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of deploying is carried out through the use of a deployment vehicle. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the deployment vehicle is a wireline unit. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein the step of retrieving the apparatus is carries out through the use of the deployment vehicle. 