Disclosed is an insoluble support that can be used, for example, for producing replicates of sample nucleic acids. The support includes a plurality of attached oligonucleotides that include a prokaryotic promoter sequence and a target annealing sequence 3' of the promote. The proximal end of the promoter sequence is spaced from the insoluble support by a distance greater than 10 nm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An insoluble support comprising a plurality of attached oligonucleotides, wherein (a) the attached oligonucleotides comprise a prokaryotic promoter sequence and a target annealing sequence, (b) the target annealing sequence is 3' of the promoter, (c) the oligonucleotide has an extendable 3' terminus; (d) the proximal end of the promoter sequence is spaced from the insoluble support by a distance greater than 10 nm; and (e) the attached oligonucleotides are covalently attached to the insoluble support by a polyethylene glycol linker which has between 8 and 16 units. 2. The support of claim 1 wherein the oligonucleotides arc less than 80 nucleotides in length. 3. The support of claim 1 wherein each target annealing sequence of the plurality is the same and the target annealing sequence can anneal to a plurality of different target sequences. 4. The support of claim 3 wherein the target annealing sequence comprises a poly-thymidine tract. 5. The support of claim 1 wherein each target annealing sequence of the plurality comprises a poly-thymidine tract and/has a 3' A, G, or C. 6. An insoluble support comprising attached template nucleic acids, wherein (a) each attached template nucleic acids comprise a prokaryotic promoter sequence and a target sequence, (b) for each template nucleic acid, the promoter is located between the target sequence and the site that attaches the template nucleic acid to the support, (c) the template nucleic acids can be transcibed to produce RNA copies of each respective target sequence, and (d) the template nucleic acids is spaced firom the support by a nucleotide-free linker that includes an identical number of main chain atoms as a polyethylene glycol linker that has between 8 and 16 uniuts. 7. The support of claim 6 wherein the template nucleic acids correspond to nucleic acids in a biological sample. 8. The support of claim 7 wherein the template nucleic acids correspond to eukaryotic mRNAs. 9. The support of claim 6 wherein a plurality of the template nucleic acids each comprises a common adaptor sequence at thier respective distal ends. 10. The support of claim 1 or 6 wherein the support is a rigid planar support. 11. The support of claim 1 or 6 wherein the support is a membrane in a spin cup. 