An automated soldering system includes a robotic soldering machine and a plurality of feed lines for delivering workpieces to be soldered by the soldering machine. Each of the feed lines transports workpieces such as LCD modules from an input end to a soldering area, and from the soldering area to an outlet end. The soldering areas are arranged within the range of motion of a soldering arm of the soldering machine are preferably arranged in a bilateral triangle having the pivot axis of the soldering are at its apex. The soldering arm is programmed to work reciprocally among the soldering areas, thus increasing the yield of the robotic soldering machine so that the soldering machine is more cost effective. The soldering machine may be programmed to perform different soldering operations at different soldering areas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated soldering system, comprising: a robotic soldering machine including a moveable soldering arm supporting a soldering tool; and a plurality of feed lines, each for transporting workpieces from an input end to a respective soldering area within a range of motion of the soldering arm, and from said soldering area to an outlet end, wherein the robotic soldering machine is programmed to reciprocate among soldering of workpieces at each of the respective soldering areas, wherein each of the feed lines suspends its transportation of workpieces when a workpiece is delivered to its respective soldering area until that workpiece has been soldered by the soldering machine; and wherein the robotic soldering machine and the soldering areas are arranged to form an approximately bilateral triangle having a pivotal axis of the soldering arm at the apex of the triangle and any two adjacent soldering areas at the base of the triangle. 2. The system claimed in claim 1, further comprising a positioning device provided at each of the soldering areas to position workpieces for soldering. 3. The system claimed in claim 2, wherein the positioning device is an optical positioning device. 4. The system claimed in claim 2, wherein the positioning device is a mechanical-constraint positioning device. 5. The system claimed in claim 1, further comprising a lift provided at each of the soldering areas for elevating a workpiece in the soldering area to a level above the corresponding feed line prior to soldering of the workpiece and for returning the workpiece to the level of the feed line after soldering. 6. The system claimed in claim 5, further comprising an auxiliary positioning device for positioning a workpiece when the workpiece is elevated by said lift. 7. The system claimed in claim 6, wherein the auxiliary positioning device is an optical positioning device. 8. The system claimed in claim 6, wherein the auxiliary positioning device is a mechanical-constraint positioning device. 9. The system claimed in claim 1, further comprising a clutch mechanism provided at each of the soldering areas for moving a work piece from a soldering area to a feed line after soldering of the workpiece. 10. The system claimed in claim 1, further comprising a return line for transporting soldered workpieces from the outlet end of a feed line to the vicinity of the input end of the feed line. 11. The system claimed in claim 10, wherein an outlet end of the return line is located beneath the input end of the corresponding feed line. 12. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of feed lines comprise two feed lines arranged symmetrically with respect to the robotic soldering machine. 13. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of feed lines comprise at least two curved feed lines having approximately equal curvatures and arranged symmetrically with respect to the robotic soldering machine. 14. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of feed lines comprise at least three curved feed lines having approximately equal curvatures, and wherein the respective soldering areas of the feed lines are arranged approximately equidistantly around a pivotal axis of the soldering arm. 15. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of feed lines comprise two feed lines arranged to receive workpieces from respective operator positions at their input ends and further arranged to deliver workpieces to a single operator position at their outlet ends. 16. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of feed lines comprise three feed lines, two of the feed lines being arranged to deliver workpieces to a single operator position at their outlet ends. 17. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of feed lines comprise at least three feed lines arranged such that an outlet end of each feed line is located adjacent an input end of another feed line. 18. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the robotic soldering machine is further programmed to perform different soldering operations at one or more of said soldering areas. 19. A method for automated soldering of workpieces, comprising: transporting unsoldered workpieces from input ends of respective multiple feed lines to respective soldering areas of the multiple feed lines arranged within a range of motion of a soldering tool supported on a soldering arm; alternately soldering workpieces at each of the respective soldering areas by the moveable soldering arm, wherein a workpiece is stationary during soldering; and transporting soldered workpieces from said respective soldering areas to outlet ends of said respective feed lines; wherein the soldering arm and the soldering areas are arranged to form an approximately bilateral triangle having a pivotal axis of the soldering arm at the apex of the triangle and any two adjacent soldering areas at the base of the triangle. 20. The method claimed in claim 19, further comprising: elevating each workpiece to a level above its feed lines before soldering the workpiece; and returning each workpiece to the level of its feed lines after soldering the workpiece. 21. The method claimed in claim 19, further comprising returning workpieces from outlet ends of feed lines to the vicinities of corresponding input ends of the feed lines via respective return lines. 22. The method claimed in claim 19, wherein soldering said workpieces comprises performing different soldering operations at one or more of said soldering areas. 