The present invention provides a system and a method for reducing pores, or air pockets, that form at the interface between the material used to attach or adhere the surface of a component, such as a prosthesis, to a site. A preferred embodiment of the invention includes an actuator that controls a coupler which transmits energy to a prosthesis being inserted into a material to reduce porosity at an interface between the prosthesis and the material. The system of the present invention can include an oscillating hand-held device that vibrates the stem component of an orthopedic prosthesis at a particular frequency and amplitude. The device is typically held by the hand of the surgeon, who guides the vibrating prosthesis into the cement-filled medullary cavity.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A device for implanting a prosthesis comprising: an actuator having a coupler that connects to a prosthesis, the prosthesis having an interface surface to be inserted into a material during implantation, the actuator comprising a housing having a transducer coupled to the prosthesis to actuate movement of the prosthesis, wherein the transducer induces vibration in the prosthesis in a range between 1 radian/second and 1000 radians/second to reduce porosity of the material at the interface surface. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the transducer actuates vibration of the prosthesis during insertion into the material. 3. The device of claim 1 further comprising a control circuit within the housing that is electrically connected to the transducer. 4. The device of claim 1 further comprising a battery within the housing. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein the coupler comprises a thermal coupler connected to the prosthesis to control a temperature of the prosthesis. 6. The device of claim 5 further comprising a temperature sensor that measures the temperature of the prosthesis. 7. The device of claim 5 further comprising a temperature control circuit within the housing. 8. The device of claim 1 wherein the material further comprises a curable cement, the cement being inserted into a cavity in a bone of a patient. 9. The device of claim 1 further comprising a sterile sleeve extending over a housing for the actuator. 10. The device of claim 1 further comprising an actuator housing having a connector to an external power supply. 11. The device of claim 1 further comprising an actuator housing having a connector to an external control module that controls an operational parameter of the actuator. 12. The device of claim 3 wherein the control circuit comprises an oscillator, an amplifier and a processor connected to the amplifier and oscillator. 13. The device of claim 1 wherein the transducer comprises a piezoelectric driver. 14. The device of claim 1 wherein the transducer comprises a coil and a rod moving within the coil. 15. The device of claim 1 wherein the coupler comprises a pin in contact with the transducer and the prosthesis. 16. The device of claim 5 wherein the thermal coupler comprises a Peltier cell. 17. The device of claim 1 further comprising an accelerometer that measures movement of the coupler. 18. The device of claim 1 further comprising an insertion device that controls insertion of the prosthesis into the material. 19. A device for implanting a prosthesis in a patient comprising: a housing having an actuator, and a coupler; a prosthesis held by the housing such that the prosthesis contacts the coupler, the prosthesis having an interface surface; a transducer coupled to the prosthesis to actuate movement of the prosthesis; and a curable adhering material, wherein the transducer induces vibration in the prosthesis in a range between 1 radian/second and 1000 radians/second to reduce porosity of the material at the interface surface. 20. The device of claim 19 wherein the transducer actuates vibration of the prosthesis during insertion into the material. 21. The device of claim 19 further comprising a control circuit within the housing that is electrically connected to the transducer. 22. The device of claim 19 further comprising a battery within the housing and an external power supply. 23. The device of claim 19 wherein the coupler comprises a thermal coupler connected to the prosthesis to control a temperature of the prosthesis. 24. The device of claim 23 further comprising a temperature sensor that measures the temperature of the prosthesis. 25. The device of claim 23 further comprising a temperature control circuit within the housing. 26. The device of claim 19 wherein the material further comprises a curable cement, the cement being inserted into a cavity in a bone of a patient. 27. A device to reduce porosity at an interface between a bone cement and an orthopedic implant comprising: an oscillating device that drives movement along a selected axis of the implant, the movement having a selected frequency between 1 and 1000 radians/second and selected amplitude, the oscillating device in communication with a transducer to actuate movement of the orthopedic implant. 28. The device of claim 27 wherein the oscillating device drives a plurality of frequencies and the implant has a precoating. 29. The device of claim 27 further comprising a temperature controller having an inductive heater that controls a temperature of the implant in conjunction with vibration of the implant during insertion. 30. The device of claim 27 wherein the orthopedic implant is a femoral stem. 31. The device in claim 27 wherein the orthopedic implant is a tibia tray. 32. The device in claim 27 wherein the orthopedic implant is an acetabular shell. 33. The device of claim 27 wherein the amplitude is between 1 and 500 .mu.m. 34. The device of claim 27 wherein the insertion rate is between 0.1 and 5 cm/sec. 35. The device of claim 27 wherein the oscillating device comprises a servomotor driven oscillator. 36. The device of claim 27 wherein the oscillating device is an air-driven cam. 37. The device of claim 27 wherein the device comprises a hand-held housing. 38. The device of claim 27 further comprising a connection to a data processor and a display. 39. The device of claim 37 wherein the hand-held device comprises a port to receive a proximal end of the implant and a second port through which a pin extends along the selected axis to contact a surface of the implant. 40. The device of claim 27 further comprising a manually actuated switch on a housing to control the oscillating device. 41. The device of claim 27 wherein the oscillating device includes a control circuit, an accelerometer and a feedback circuit. 42. The device of claim 27 wherein the oscillating device comprises a rotating cam driven by a motor. 43. The device of claim 27 further comprising a mounting block in which a proximal end of the implant is mounted and an actuator to impart rotational oscillation to the distal end of the implant. 44. The device of claim 27 further comprising mounting pins that attach the device at a surgical site. 45. The device of claim 27 further comprising a programmable insertion device. 46. The device of claim 27 further comprising a disposable sterile sleeve. 47. The device of claim 39 wherein the pin is spring loaded. 48. A device for implanting a prosthesis comprising: an actuator having a coupler that connects to a prosthesis, the actuator having an oscillator to generate oscillations at a determined frequency and amplitude, the prosthesis having an interface surface to be inserted into a material during implantation, the prosthesis being actuated at the determined frequency and amplitude to reduce porosity of the material at the interface surface and wherein the coupler comprises a thermal coupler connected to the prosthesis to control a temperature of the prosthesis. 49. The device of claim 48 wherein the actuator comprises a housing having a transducer coupled to the prosthesis to actuate movement of the prosthesis. 50. The device of claim 49 wherein the transducer actuates vibration of the prosthesis during insertion into the material. 51. The device of claim 49 further comprising a control circuit within the housing that is electrically connected to the transducer. 52. The device of claim 49 further comprising a battery within the housing. 53. The device of claim 48 further comprising a temperature sensor that measures the temperature of the prosthesis. 54. The device of claim 49 further comprising a temperature control circuit within the housing. 55. The device of claim 48 wherein the material further comprises a curable cement, the cement being inserted into a cavity in a bone of a patient. 56. The device of claim 49 wherein the transducer induces vibration in the prosthesis in a range between 1 radian/second and 1000 radians/second. 57. The device of claim 48 further comprising a sterile sleeve extending over a housing for the actuator. 58. The device of claim 48 further comprising an actuator housing having a connector to an external power supply. 59. The device of claim 48 further comprising an actuator housing having a connector to an external control module that controls an operational parameter of the actuator. 60. The device of claim 51 wherein the control circuit comprises an oscillator, an amplifier and a processor connected to the amplifier and oscillator. 61. The device of claim 49 wherein the transducer comprises a piezoelectric driver. 62. The device of claim 49 wherein the transducer comprises a coil and a rod moving within the coil. 63. The device of claim 49 wherein the coupler comprises a pin in contact with the transducer and the prosthesis. 64. The device of claim 48 wherein the thermal coupler comprises a Peltier cell. 65. The device of claim 49 further comprising an accelerometer that measures movement of the coupler. 66. The device of claim 48 further comprising an insertion device that controls insertion of the prosthesis into the material. 67. A device to reduce porosity at an interface between a bone cement and an orthopedic implant comprising: an oscillating device that drives movement along a selected axis of the implant, the movement having a selected frequency and amplitude, the oscillating device in communication with a transducer to actuate movement of the orthopedic implant, wherein the insertion rate of the orthopedic implant is between 0.1 and 10 cm/sec. 68. The device of claim 67 wherein the oscillating device drives a plurality of frequencies and the implant has a precoating. 69. The device of claim 67 further comprising a temperature controller having an inductive heater that controls a temperature of the implant in conjunction with vibration of the implant during insertion. 70. The device of claim 67 wherein the orthopedic implant is a femoral stem. 71. The device in claim 67 wherein the orthopedic implant is a tibia tray. 72. The device in claim 67 wherein the orthopedic implant is an acetabular shell. 73. The device of claim 67 wherein the frequency is between 1 and 1000 rad/sec. 74. The device of claim 67 wherein the amplitude is between 1 and 500 .mu.m. 75. The device of claim 67 wherein the oscillating device comprises a servomotor driven oscillator. 76. The device of claim 67 wherein the oscillating device is an air-driven cam. 77. The device of claim 67 wherein the device comprises a hand-held housing. 78. The device of claim 67 further comprising a connection to a data processor and a display. 79. The device of claim 77 wherein the hand-held device comprises a port to receive a proximal end of the implant and a second port through which a pin extends along the selected axis to contact a surface of the implant. 80. The device of claim 67 further comprising a manually actuated switch on a housing to control the oscillating device. 81. The device of claim 67 wherein the oscillating device includes a control circuit, an accelerometer and a feedback circuit. 82. The device of claim 67 wherein the oscillating device comprises a rotating cam driven by a motor. 