An apparatus and method for detecting in chamber wafer position and process status are disclosed. A chamber includes a processing pedestal and plurality of lift pins. Each lift pin has an associated load cell for measuring the load exerted by the wafer on the lift pins. Mispositioned wafers or broken wafers will result in load measurements outside of expected ranges. Position of the wafer may be determined from the load distribution sensed on the lift pins.
Claims The invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. Method of detecting a position status of a wafer in a wafer chamber, said chamber including a plurality of lift pins for supporting the wafer, the method comprising the steps: sensing respective loads exerted by the wafer upon each of the plurality of lift pins, wherein the plurality of pins numbers three distributed at the apexes of an equilateral triangle; and determining from said respective loads a position status of the wafer wherein said step of determining the position status of the wafer includes the step of determining whether the wafer is acceptably positioned, wherein the wafer is determined to be unacceptably positioned when the respective loads exerted by the water upon each of the plurality of lift pins are not substantially equivalent, and determining the location of the wafer by performing the step of calculating the location of the wafer from the distribution of the respective loads exerted by the wafer upon each of the plurality of lift pins, wherein the location of the wafer is defined by a coordinate pair location (x,y) of the wafer geometric center on a Cartesian coordinate system wherein a first one of the three pins corresponds to the coordinate system origin, a line internecting the origin and a second one of the three pins corresponds to an X-axis of the coordinate system, a line intersecting the origin perpendicular to the X-axis corresponds to the Y-axis of the coordinate system, wherein ##EQU2## t-an equivalent distance from any one of the three lift pins to the other two lift pins, M1-load at a third one of the three pins, M2-load at the first one of the three pins, and M3-load at the second one of the three pins. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said step of sensing respective loads includes sensing said respective loads with piezoelectric load cells. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said step of determining the position status of the wafer includes determining whether the wafer is acceptably positioned. 4. The method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the wafer is determined to be unacceptably positioned when at least one of the respective loads exerted by the wafer upon the corresponding one of the plurality of predetermined load substantially equivalent to a respective predetermined load. 