A method is provided for characterizing a crystal structure of a molecule, the method comprising performing a plurality of crystallization experiments where the crystallization experiments have volumes of less than 1 microliter, the crystallization experiments comprising a molecule to be crystallized and a composition that varies among the plurality of crystallization experiments and diffracting a crystal formed in one of the crystallization experiments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for forming crystallization experiments for a molecule, the method comprising: forming a plurality of crystallization experiments that comprise a molecule to be crystallized and a composition that varies among the plurality of crystallization experiments, the crystallization experiments having a volume less than 1 microliter, the volumes of the plurality of crystallization experiments varying among the experiments by less than 25 nL. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the molecule is a macromolecule. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the molecule is a protein. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the molecule has a molecular weight of at least 500 daltons. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the crystallization experiments have volumes less than 750 nL. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the crystallization experiments have volumes less than 500 nL. 7. The method according to claim 1 wherein the crystallization experiments have volumes less than 250 nL. 8. The method according to claim 1 wherein the crystallization experiments have volumes between 1 nL-750 nL. 9. The method according to claim 1 wherein the crystallization experiments have volumes between 1 nL-500 nL. 10. The method according to claim 1 wherein the crystallization experiments have volumes between 1 nL-250 nL. 11. The method according to claim 1 wherein the volumes of the plurality of crystallization experiments vary among the experiments by less than 20 nL. 12. The method according to claim 1 wherein the volumes of the plurality of crystallization experiments vary among the experiments by less than 15 nL. 13. The method according to claim 1 wherein the volumes of the plurality of crystallization experiments vary among the experiments by less than 10 nL. 14. The method according to claim 1 wherein the volumes of the plurality of crystallization experiments vary among the experiments by between 380 pL and 25 nL. 15. The method according to claim 1 wherein the volumes of the plurality of crystallization experiments vary among the experiments by between 380 pL and 20 nL. 16. The method according to claim 1 wherein the volumes of the plurality of crystallization experiments vary among the experiments by between 380 pL and 15 nL. 17. The method according to claim 1 wherein the volumes of the plurality of crystallization experiments vary among the experiments by between 380 pL and 10 nL. 18. The method according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments comprise at least 24 different crystallization experiments. 19. The method according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments comprise at least 36 different crystallization experiments. 20. The method according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments comprise at least 48 different crystallization experiments. 21. The method according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments comprise greater than 96 different crystallization experiments. 22. The method according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments are formed in a multiwell plate. 23. The method according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments are formed in a sitting drop multiwell plate. 24. The method according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments are formed in a hanging drop multiwell plate. 25. A method for performing crystallization experiments for a molecule, the method comprising: forming a plurality of crystallization experiments that comprise a molecule to be crystallized and a composition that varies among the plurality of crystallization experiments, the crystallization experiments having a volume less than 1 microliter, the volumes of the plurality of crystallization experiments varying among the experiments by less than 25 nL; storing the plurality of crystallization experiments; and detecting crystal formation in the plurality of crystallization experiments. 26. The method according to claim 25 wherein detecting crystal formation in the crystallization experiments comprises characterizing the crystal formed. 27. The method according to claim 25 wherein detecting crystal formation in the crystallization experiments comprises characterizing the quality of a crystal structure of the crystal formed. 28. The method according to claim 25 wherein detecting crystal formation in the crystallization experiments comprises imaging the plurality of crystallization experiments. 29. The method according to claim 25 wherein detecting crystal formation in the crystallization experiments comprises imaging the plurality of crystallization experiments such that only a single image of each crystallization experiment is taken. 30. The method according to claim 25 wherein detecting crystal formation in the crystallization experiments comprises imaging the plurality of crystallization experiments without adjusting a focus of an optical system taking the images during the imaging. 31. The method according to claim 25 wherein the molecule is a macromolecule. 32. The method according to claim 25 wherein the molecule is a protein. 33. The method according to claim 25 wherein the molecule has a molecular weight of at least 500 daltons. 34. The method according to claim 25 wherein the crystallization experiments have volumes less than 750 nL. 35. The method according to claim 25 wherein the crystallization experiments have volumes less than 500 nL. 36. A method for characterizing a crystal structure of a molecule, the method comprising: performing a plurality of crystallization experiments where the crystallization experiments have volumes of less than 1 microliter, the crystallization experiments comprising a molecule to be crystallized and a composition that varies among the plurality of crystallization experiments; and solving the molecule's crystal structure by x-ray diffraction of a crystal of the molecule from one of the crystallization experiments. 37. The method according to claim 36 wherein the molecule is a macromolecule. 38. The method according to claim 36 wherein the molecule is a protein. 39. The method according to claim 36 wherein the molecule has a molecular weight of at least 500 daltons. 40. The method according to claim 36 wherein the crystallization experiments have volumes less than 750 nL. 41. The method according to claim 36 wherein the crystallization experiments have volumes less than 500 nL. 42. The method according to claim 36 wherein the crystallization experiments have volumes less than 250 nL. 43. The method according to claim 42 wherein the molecule is a protein. 44. The method according to claim 36 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments are performed in a multiwell plate. 45. The method according to claim 36 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments are performed in a sitting drop multiwell plate. 46. The method according to claim 36 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments are performed in a hanging drop multiwell plate. 47. The method according to claim 36 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments comprise at least 96 experiments that are performed in a single crystallization experiment device. 48. The method according to claim 47 wherein the molecule is a protein. 49. The method according to claim 36 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments comprise more than 96 experiments that are performed in a single crystallization experiment device. 50. The method according to claim 49 wherein the molecule is a protein. 51. The method according to claim 36 wherein the plurality of crystallization experiments comprise at least 144 experiments that are performed in a single multiwell plate. 52. The method according to claim 51 wherein the molecule is a protein. 53. A method for analyzing a crystal structure of a molecule, the method comprising: performing a crystallization experiment in a volume of less than 1 microliter, the crystallization experiment comprising a molecule to be crystallized; and solving the molecule's crystal structure by x-ray diffraction of a crystal of the molecule from the crystallization experiment. 54. The method according to claim 53 wherein the molecule is a macromolecule. 55. The method according to claim 53 wherein the molecule is a protein. 56. The method according to claim 53 wherein the molecule has a molecular weight of at least 500 daltons. 57. The method according to claim 53 wherein the crystallization experiment has a volume less than 750 nL. 58. The method according to claim 53 wherein the crystallization experiment has a volume less than 500 nL. 59. The method according to claim 53 wherein the crystallization experiment has a volume less than 250 nL. 60. The method according to claim 53 wherein the crystallization experiment is performed in a multiwell plate. 61. The method according to claim 53 wherein the crystallization experiment is performed in a sitting drop multiwell plate. 62. The method according to claim 53 wherein the crystallization experiment is performed in a hanging drop multiwell plate. 