An automated lapping system is provided for lapping a work product using a robot. Because the robot can apply continuous consistent pressure that far exceeds the capabilities of a human operator, lapping and polishing evolutions take a fraction of the time taken by a human operator. The system includes a robot having one or more lapping end effectors and a control component that controls the robot to lap the work product. The control component includes a processor, a user interface coupled to the processor, a communication component that receives final work product dimensions, and a positioning component that detects a lapping zone on the work product and sends the detected lapping zone to the control component. The control component controls the robot based on the sent lapping zone and received work product dimensions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated lapping system for lapping a work product, the system comprising: a robot having one or more lapping end effectors and a slurry dispenser for dispensing slurry onto the work product proximate the one or more end effectors; and a control component for controlling the robot to lap the work product. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the control component includes a processor and a user interface coupled to the processor. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the control component further includes a communication component for receiving final work product dimensions. 4. The system of claim 3, further comprising a positioning component for detecting a lapping zone on the work product and sending the detected lapping zone to the control component. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the control component controls the robot responsive to the sent lapping zone and received work product dimensions. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising an alarm component for detecting an intruder within threshold distance from the robot, generating a shut-off signal when an intruder is detected, and sending the shut-off signal to the robot. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the work product includes an injection mold for a polycarbonate canopy. 8. An automated lapping method for lapping a work product using a robot having one or more end effectors, the method comprising: receiving final work product dimensions; detecting a lapping zone on the work product; sending information indicative of the detected lapping zone to the control component; controlling the robot based on the sent lapping zone and received work product dimensions; and dispensing slurry from the robot onto the work product proximate the one or more end effectors. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: detecting an intruder within threshold distance from the robot; generating a shut-off signal if an intruder is detected; and sending the shut-off signal to the robot. 10. An automated lapping system for lapping a plurality of work products, the system comprising: a robot having one or more lapping end effectors and a slurry dispenser for dispensing slurry onto each of the work products proximate to the one or more end effectors; a plurality of work product stations including a work product; and a control component for controlling the robot to lap the work product. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the control component includes a processor and a user interface coupled to the processor. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the control component further includes a communication component for receiving final dimensions for each of the plurality of work products. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising a plurality of positioning components for generating lapping zone information for each of the plurality of work products and sending the generated lapping zone information to the control component. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the control component controls the robot responsive to the sent lapping zone and received work product dimensions. 15. The system of claim 10, further comprising an alarm component for detecting an intruder within the work product stations, generating a shut-off signal when a an intruder is detected, and sending the shut-off signal to at least one of the robot or the control component. 16. The system of claim 10, further comprising a motion device for moving the robot between the plurality of work product stations. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the control component controls the motion device. 18. The system of claim 10, wherein the work products include injection molds for polycarbonate canopies. 