A surgical system or assembly for performing cardiac surgery includes a surgical instrument; a servo-mechanical system engaged to the surgical instrument for operating the surgical instrument; and an attachment assembly for removing at least one degree of movement from a moving surgical cardiac worksite to produce a resultant surgical cardiac worksite. The surgical system or assembly also includes a motion tracking system for gathering movement information on a resultant surgical cardiac worksite. A control computer is engaged to the attachment assembly and to the motion tracking system and to the servo-mechanical system for controlling movement of the attachment assembly and for feeding gathered information to the servo-mechanical system for moving the surgical instrument in unison with the resultant surgical cardiac worksite such that a relative position of the moving surgical instrument with respect to the resultant surgical cardiac worksite is generally constant. A video monitor is coupled to the control computer; and an input system is coupled to the servo-mechanical system and to the control computer for providing a movement of the surgical instrument. The video monitor displays movement of the surgical instrument while the resultant surgical cardiac worksite appears substantially stationary, and while a relative position of the surgical instrument moving in unison with the resultant surgical cardiac worksite, as a result from the movement information gathered by the motion tracking system, remains generally constant. A method of performing cardiac surgery without cardioplegia comprising removing at least one degree of movement freedom from a moving surgical cardiac worksite to produce at least a partially stationary surgical cardiac worksite while allowing a residual heart section, generally separate from the at least partially stationary surgical cardiac worksite, to move as a residual moving heart part. Cardiac surgery is performed on the at least partially stationary cardiac worksite with a surgical instrument such as needle drivers, forceps, blades and scissors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing a surgical procedure on a beating heart of a patient, the method including: positioning an end effector in close proximity to a surgical site on the heart, at which site a surgical procedure is to be performed, the end effector being mounted on a robotically controlled arm; bracing the beating heart to at least reduce motion of the surgical site monitoring motion of the surgical site; computing end effector tracking command signals in response to monitored motion of the surgical site; forwarding the tracking command signals to actuators operatively associated with the robotically controlled arm to cause the arm to move the end effector generally to track motion of the surgical site; inputting an end effector movement command signal; forwarding the end effector movement command signal to the actuators to cause the end effector to move relative to the surgical site so as to perform at least part of the surgical procedure at the surgical sites directing an image capture device at the surgical site to capture least one image of the surgical site; and processing information related to the at least one image to create an image of the surgical site which appears as though the surgical site were generally stationary relative to the image capture device. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which bracing the beating heart includes contacting the heart with a brace member connected to a stationary base positioned outside the patient. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2, in which the brace member is arranged to operate under suction, the method including displacing air relative to the brace member to cause the brace member to attach itself to the heart by suction. 4. A method as claimed in claim 2, in which the race member is connected to the base by means of a robotically controlled arm, the method including forwarding command signals to actuators operatively associated with the robotically controlled arm to cause the arm to move the brace member from a position clear of the heart to a position in contact with the heart. 5. A method as claimed in claim 2, which includes maintaining the brace member in a stationary condition relative to the base when in contact with the beating heart so as to inhibit heart motion by at least one degree of freedom of movement. 6. A method as claimed in claim 2, which includes permitting the brace member to move in sympathy with the heart and whilst in contact therewith, restraining motion of the brace member so as to restrain motion of the surgical site, monitoring motion of the surgical site then including monitoring restrained motion of the brace member. 7. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which monitoring motion of the surgical site includes contacting the surgical site with a motion detector, permitting the motion detector to move in sympathy with the surgical site and monitoring movement of the motion detector so as to monitor motion of the surgical site. 8. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which monitoring motion of the surgical site includes securing at least one target marker on the surgical site d monitoring movement of the target marker so as to monitor motion of the surgical site. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8, which includes securing a plurality of target markers at spaced apart positions on the surgical site and monitoring movement of the target markers so as to monitor motion of the surgical site. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9, in which the movement of the target markers differ, monitoring motion of the surgical site then including monitoring a computed motion derived from the motions of at least some of the target markers. 11. A method as claimed in claim 9, in which the target markers are arranged to cooperate with a sensor, the method further comprising positioning a sensor at an appropriate position to detect motion of the target markers. 12. A method as claimed in claim 11, in which the sensor is arranged to cooperate with the markers so as to monitor their movements electromagnetically. 13. A method as claimed in claim 1, which further includes: displaying the image of the surgical site on an image display operatively connected to the image capture devices. 14. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the at least one image comprises at least two images of the surgical site captured from two different vantage points. 15. A method as claimed in claim 14, in which processing the information related to the at least two images comprises transforming optical information related to the at least two images into digital information and processing the digital information so as to cause the surgical site to be displayed on the image display as if the surgical site were generally stationary relative to the image capture device. 16. A method as claimed in claim 14, in which computing the tracking command signals in response to the monitored motion of the surgical site includes computing tracking command signals in the form of vectors derived from information corresponding to the at least two images. 17. A method as claimed in claim 16, in which processing the information related to the at least two images includes defining a plurality of discrete locations at the surgical site and monitoring the motion of the discrete locations by means of information derived from the at least two images. 18. A method as claimed in claim 17, which includes securing markers on the surgical site at the discrete locations. 19. A method as claimed in claim 18, in which the markers are distinctively colored, monitoring the motion of the discrete locations then including monitoring motion of the distinctively colored markers. 20. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 14, which includes analyzing information corresponding to monitored motion history of the surgical site to predict motion of the surgical site. 21. A method as claimed in claim 20, in which computing tracking command signals in response to monitored motion of the surgical site includes computing the tracking command signals from predicted motion of the surgical site. 22. A method as claimed in claim 20, in which predicting motion of the surgical site includes comparing information corresponding to monitored motion of the surgical site with an ECG signal. 23. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the image capture device is in the form of a stereo endoscope, and wherein directing the image capture device at the surgical site further comprises passing a viewing end of the endoscope through an aperture in a chest region of a the patient. 24. A method as claimed in claim 1, in which the surgical procedure is to be performed in a minimally invasive manner, wherein positioning the end effector in close proximity to the surgical site on the heart further comprising passing the end effector through an aperture in a chest region o the patient. 25. A method of performing a surgical procedure on a beating heart of a patient, the method including: positioning an end effector in close proximity to a surgical site o the heart at which site a surgical procedure is to be performed, the end effector being mounted on a robotically controlled arm; monitoring motion of the surgical site; using monitored motion history of the surgical site to compute predictive tracking command signals in response to monitored motion of the surgical site; forwarding the predictive tracking command signals to actuators operatively associated with the robotically controlled arm to cause the end effector generally to track motion of the surgical site; inputting an end effector movement command signal; and forwarding the end effector movement command signal to the actuators to cause the end effector to move relative to the surgical site so as to perform at least part of the surgical procedure at the surgical site. 26. A method as claimed in claim 25, which further includes bracing the beating heart to at least reduce motion of the surgical site. 27. A method as claimed in claim 26, in which bracing the beating heart includes contacting the heart with a brace member connected to a station base positioned outside the patient. 28. A method as claimed in claim 27, in which the brace member is arranged to operate under suction, the method including displacing air relative to the brace member to cause the brace member to attach itself to the heart by suction. 29. A method as claimed in claim 27, in which th brace member is mounted on a robotically controlled arm, the method including forwarding command signals to actuators operatively associated with the robotically controlled arm to cause the arm to move the brace member from a position clear of the heart to a position in contact with the heart. 30. A method as claimed in claim 29, which includes maintaining the brace member in a stationary condition relative to the base when in contact with the beating heart so as to inhibit heart motion by at least one degree of freedom of movement. 31. A method as claimed in claim 29, which includes permitting the brace member to move in sympathy with the heart whilst in contact therewith and restraining motion of the brace member so as to restrain motion of the surgical site, monitoring motion of the surgical site then including monitoring restrained motion of the surgical site. 32. A method as claimed in claim 25, in which monitoring motion of the surgical site includes contacting the surgical site with a motion detector, permitting the motion detector to move in sympathy with the surgical site and monitoring movement of the motion detector so as to monitor motion of the surgical site. 33. A method as claimed in claim 25, in which monitoring motion of the surgical site includes securing at least one target marker on the surgical site and monitoring movement of the target marker so as to monitor motion of the surgical site. 34. A method as claimed in claim 33, which includes securing a plurality of target markers at spaced apart positions at the surgical site and monitoring movement of the target markers so as to monitor motion of the surgical site. 35. A method as claimed in claim 34, in which the movement of the target markers differ, monitoring motion of the surgical site then including monitoring a computed motion derived from the monitored motions of at least some of the target markers. 36. A method as claimed in claim 34, in which the target markers are arranged to cooperate with a sensor, the method further including positioning a sensor at an appropriate position to detect motion of the target markers. 37. A method as claimed in claim 36, in which the sensor is arranged to cooperate with the markers so as to sense their movement electromagnetically. 38. A method as claimed in claim 25, which further includes: directing an image capture device at the surgical site to capture image of the surgical site; displaying the image of the surgical site on an image display operatively connected to the image capture device; and compensating for motion of the surgical site to cause the image the surgical site to be displayed on the image display as if the surgical site were generally stationary relative to the image capture device. 39. A method as claimed in claim 38, wherein the image capture device is mounted on a robotically controlled arm, compensating for motion of he surgical site to cause the surgical site to be displayed on the image display as if the surgical site were generally stationary relative to the image capture device including: computing image capture device tracking command signals in response to monitored motion of the surgical site; and forwarding the image capture device tracking command signals actuators operatively associated with the robotically controlled arm to cause the arm to move the image capture device generally to track motion of the surgical site. 40. A method as claimed in claim 38, wherein the image capture device is arranged to capture at least two images of the surgical site from two different vantage points, compensating for motion of the surgical site to cause the surgical site to be displayed on the image display as if the surgical site were generally stationary relative to the image capture device including processing information related to the two images so as to cause the surgical site to be displayed on the image display as if the surgical site were generally stationary relative to the image capture device. 41. A method as claimed in claim 40, in which processing the information related to the two images includes transforming optical information related to the two images into digital information and processing the digital information so as to cause the surgical site to be displayed on the image display as if the surgical site were generally stationary relative to the image capture device. 42. A method as claimed in claim 40, in which monitoring motion of the surgical site includes the processing of the information related to the two images. 43. A method as claimed in claim 42, in which computing tracking command signals in response to monitored motion of the surgical site includes computing tracking command signals in the form of vectors derived from monitored information corresponding to the two images. 44. A method as claimed in claim 42, in which processing the two images includes defining a plurality of discrete locations at the surgical site and monitoring the motion of the discrete locations. 45. A method as claimed in claim 44, which includes securing markers on the surgical site at the discrete locations. 46. A method as claimed in claim 45, in which the markers are distinctively colored, monitoring the motion of the discrete locations then including monitoring motion of the distinctively colored markers. 47. A method as claimed in claim 38, in which the image capture device is in the form of a stereo endoscope, directing the image capture device at the surgical site then including passing a viewing end of the endoscope through a relatively small aperture in the chest region of the patient. 48. A method as claimed in claim 25, or claim 38, in which using monitored motion history of the surgical site to compute predictive tracking command and signals includes comparing the monitored history with a real-time signal from the patient. 49. A method as claimed in claim 48, in which predicting motion of the surgical site includes comparing the information corresponding to monitored motion history of the surgical site with an ECG signal. 50. A method as claimed in claim 25, in which th surgical procedure is to be performed in a minimally invasive manner, positioning the end effector in close proximity to the surgical site on the heart then including passing the end effector through a relatively small aperture in the chest region of the patient. 51. A robotically controlled surgical system for performing a surgical procedure on a beating heart of a patient, the system including: a robotically controlled arm; an end effector mounted on the arm and arranged to perform the surgical procedure on a surgical site on the heart; a plurality of actuators operatively associated with the arm so as to move the arm in response to the actuators receiving actuator command signals; a brace member configured to brace the beating heart so as to at least reduce motion of the surgical site; a motion tracking system for monitoring motion of the surgical site including an image capture device capable of capturing at least one image of the surgical site and an image processor capable of processing information related to the at least one image to create an image of the surgical site which appears as though the surgical site were generally stationary relative to the image capture device; a master input device through which an operator can selectively input end effector movement commands; and a control system in which the robotically controlled arm, the motion tracking system and the master input device are operatively connected, the control system being arranged to compute a first set of actuator command signals, in response to information received from the motion tracking system, arranged to cause the actuators to move the end effector generally to track surgical site motion, and a second set of actuator command signals, in response to input from the master input device, arranged to move the end effector relative to the surgical site so as to perform the surgical procedure. 52. A system as claimed in claim 51, the image capture device being operatively connected to an image display arranged to display the image of the surgical site, the image display being positioned in close proximity to the master input device so that the operator can view the image of the surgical site displayed on the image display while inputting end effector movement commands through the master input device. 53. A system as claimed in claim 52, in which the image capture device is mounted on a robotically controlled arm. 54. A system as claimed in claim 52, in which the image capture device is in the form of a stereo endoscope. 