In one embodiment, a wafer-handling robot in a wafer processing system is automatically calibrated by determining an orientation of the robot relative to a chassis of the wafer processing system, determining hand-off coordinates of a load port in the wafer processing system, and determining hand-off coordinates of a load lock in the wafer processing system. Also disclosed is a calibration fixture for automatically calibrating the wafer-handling robot to the load port.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automatically calibrating a wafer-handling robot, the method comprising: determining an orientation of a robot relative to a chassis of a wafer processing system; determining hand-off coordinates of a load port in the wafer processing system; and determining hand-off coordinates of a first load lock in the wafer processing system; wherein determining the orientation of the robot relative to the chassis of the wafer processing system comprises: using the robot to find a first sensor located on one end of the wafer processing system; using the robot to find a second sensor located on another end of the wafer processing system; determining a distance between the first sensor and the second sensor; and determining an offset between a coordinate frame of the robot and a coordinate frame of the wafer processing system. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: performing wafer mapping calibration using a load port fixture; and performing a wafer centering calibration routine. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: comparing the distance to an expected value or a range of values. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein determining the hand-off coordinates of the load port comprises: adjusting theta coordinates of locations in a load port fixture based on the orientation of the robot relative to the chassis of the wafer processing system; moving an end-effector of the robot to a first wafer slot of the load port fixture; moving the end-effector to a second wafer slot of the load port fixture; and determining a leveling difference between z-axes of the robot and the load port. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein determining the hand-off coordinates of the first load lock in the wafer processing system comprises: determining a safe z-coordinate for entering the first load lock; determining a wafer transfer plane; and determining radial and theta coordinates for wafer hand-off. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein determining the safe z-coordinate for entering the first load lock comprises: using the robot to find a feature located outside the first load lock. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the wafer processing system comprises a chemical vapor deposition system. 8. A calibration fixture for automatically calibrating a load port in a wafer processing system, the calibration fixture comprising: a plurality of wafer slots; a first sensor having a beam configured along an axis that represents a wafer center; and a calibration disk, wherein the calibration disk includes a surface simulating an edge of a wafer. 9. The calibration fixture of claim 8 wherein the calibration disk includes a central hole through which the beam of the first sensor passes through. 10. The calibration fixture of claim 8 further comprising a flag for providing a z-axis reference. 11. The calibration fixture of claim 10 wherein the flag comprises a metallic disk. 12. The calibration fixture of claim 8 wherein the calibration fixture simulates a front-opening unified pod (FOUP). 13. The calibration fixture of claim 8 further comprising an interface port for allowing a sensor signal from the calibration fixture to be coupled to a computer. 14. A method of automatically calibrating a wafer-handling robot to a loading port of a wafer processing system, the method comprising: providing a calibration fixture; determining radial and theta locations in the calibration fixture; determining a z-reference in the calibration fixture; moving an end-effector of a robot to a first wafer slot in the calibration fixture; moving the end-effector to a second wafer slot in the calibration fixture; and determining a leveling difference between z-axes of the robot and the calibration fixture. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein determining the radial and theta locations in the calibration fixture comprises: finding a sensor beam passing along an axis that represents a wafer center in the calibration fixture. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the calibration fixture simulates a front-opening unified pod (FOUP). 17. The method of claim 14 wherein determining the z-reference in the calibration fixture comprises: determining an initial z-reference; and determining a refined z-reference. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein determining the initial z-reference comprises finding a calibration disk mounted in the calibration fixture, and wherein determining the refined z-reference comprises refining the initial z-reference by finding a flag in the calibration fixture. 19. A method of automatically calibrating a wafer-handling robot, the method comprising: determining an orientation of a robot relative to a chassis of a wafer processing system; determining hand-off coordinates of a load port in the wafer processing system; and determining hand-off coordinates of a first load lock in the wafer processing system; wherein determining the hand-off coordinates of the load port comprises: adjusting theta coordinates of locations in a load port fixture based on the orientation of the robot relative to the chassis of the wafer processing system; moving an end-effector of the robot to a first wafer slot of the load port fixture; moving the end-effector to a second wafer slot of the load port fixture; and determining a leveling difference between z-axes of the robot and the load port. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising: performing wafer mapping calibration using the load port fixture; and performing a wafer centering calibration routine. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein determining the orientation of the robot relative to the chassis of the wafer processing system comprises: using the robot to find a first sensor located on one end of the wafer processing system; using the robot to find a second sensor located on another end of the wafer processing system; determining a distance between the first sensor and the second sensor; and determining an offset between a coordinate frame of the robot and a coordinate frame of the wafer processing system. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising: comparing the distance to an expected value or a range of values. 23. The method of claim 19 wherein determining the hand-off coordinates of the first load lock in the wafer processing system comprises: determining a safe z-coordinate for entering the first load lock; determining a wafer transfer plane; and determining radial and theta coordinates for wafer hand-off. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein determining the safe z-coordinate for entering the first load lock comprises: using the robot to find a feature located outside the first load lock. 25. The method of claim 19 wherein the wafer processing system comprises a chemical vapor deposition system. 