The invention is a process for bonding glass to a substrate without the need to prime the surface of the substrate. The process comprises, first, treating the surface of the substrate with air plasma, applying to the surface of the substrate or to the surface of the glass an adhesive capable of bonding to the treated substrate and glass, and contacting the glass and the substrate with the adhesive disposed between the substrate and the glass, and allowing the adhesive to cure. Preferably the substrate is coated with a coating. Preferred adhesives are polyurethane or silane functional elastomeric adhesives. The process of the invention allows bonding of glass to a substrate without the need to use a primer on the substrate prior to application of the adhesive. The process is especially effective in facilitating the bonding of glass to coated substrates, especially substrates coated with acid resistant coatings such as PPG's carbamate coating or DuPont's Gen III, IV and VI coatings.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of bonding glass to a substrate without utilizing a primer on the substrate which comprises A) treating a surface of the unprimed substrate with a stream of air plasma using a jet having a nozzle; B) applying to the treated surface of the unprimed substrate or to a glass surface an adhesive capable of bonding the treated substrate to glass; C) contacting the glass and the unprimed substrate such that the adhesive is disposed between the treated surface of the unprimed substrate and the glass; and D) allowing the adhesive to cure to bond the glass to the treated surface of the unprimed substrate. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the unprimed substrate is the flange or encapsulated molding of an automobile adapted for holding a glass window into the automobile. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the adhesive is a polyurethane adhesive. 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein the polyurethane adhesive has an isocyanate content of 0.3 percent or greater. 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein the polyurethane adhesive has an isocyanate content of about 0.3 percent by weight to about 5 percent by weight. 6. The method according to claim 5 wherein the plasma stream comprises a yellow portion and is applied such that the yellow portion is in contact with the substrate. 7. The method according to claim 6 wherein the distance from the nozzle of the jet to the substrate of about 3 to about 25 mm. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the distance from the nozzle of the jet to the substrate is about 6 to about 20 mm. 9. The method according to claim 7 wherein the polyurethane adhesive contains a tin catalyst present in an amount sufficient to provide from about 30 parts per million of tin to 1.0 percent by weight of tin based on the weight of the adhesive. 10. The method according to claim 9 wherein the substrate surface is treated to achieve a surface tension of about 30 dynes or greater. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the surface is treated to achieve a surface tension of about 45 dynes or greater. 12. The method according to claim 10 wherein the plasma stream is applied to the substrate at a speed of about 1.5 meters per minute to about 75 meters per minute. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the plasma stream is applied to the substrate at a speed of about 10 meters/minute to about 25 meters per minute. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein the adhesive contains an adhesion promoter comprising a vinyl alkoxysilane, isocyanato alkoxysilane isocyanate functional alkoxysilane, an aliphatic isocyanate or a mixture thereof. 15. A method according to claim 12 wherein the substrate is subjected to multiple plasma treatments. 16. A method according to claim 14 wherein the substrate is exposed to about 2 to about 3 plasma treatments. 