The present invention provides a long-range, untethered, live, in-pipe inspection system that includes a self-propelled train having a plurality of modules; joint members for interconnecting adjacent modules, data collection components, and wireless communication components for transmitting collected data and receiving control messages. The module-train includes, generally, at least one, and preferably two drive modules, at least one power module and an electronics module. The train may additionally include at least one support module, which may be interposed between the power and electronics modules. In one embodiment of the invention, there are two drive modules, one at each terminal end of the train, two power modules, one adjacent to each drive module, two support modules, one adjacent to each power module, and one central electronics and computing module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for inspection of selective conditions in a pipeline comprising: a self-propelled train comprising: a plurality of modules, at least one of said modules having a drive mechanism for effecting locomotion of said train; at least one joint member for interconnecting adjacent modules in said train, said joint member configured to allow articulation of said modules relative to each other through multiple planes and angles; data collection components; and, communication components for transmitting collected data; wherein said plurality of modules further comprises: two terminal modules, one positioned at each end of the train, and a plurality of mid train modules positioned between the terminal modules; wherein the at least one joint members of the system further comprise: a double-axis steerable interconnect joint positioned between each terminal module and the mid-train module adjacent thereto, said double-axis interconnect joint being movable about two axes of rotation; a single-axis steerable interconnect joint positioned between adjacent mid-train modules, said single-axis interconnect joint being movable about a single axis or rotation; each of said double-axis interconnect joints rotate about both a pitch axis and a roll axis, and each of said single-axis interconnect joints rotate about a pitch axis; wherein said modules each comprise a motor for driving the movement of said double-axis and single-axis interconnect joints; wherein each of said double-axis and single-axis interconnect joints include a rotatable gear mounted on each module of the joint for engagement with the rotatable gear on the adjacent module; wherein each module has a central axis and the motor in each said terminal modules is offset from the central axis of that module and each terminal module comprises: a first mounting member positioned on an end of said terminal module adjacent one of said mid-train modules; one of said rotatable gears; and, a first gear assembly driven by the motor for imparting rotation to said rotatable gear. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of modules include at least one drive module. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said drive module includes said drive mechanism, which further comprises: a motor assembly; a drive shaft operatively connected to and driven by said motor assembly; a plurality of drive arms, each drive arm having at least one driven wheel rotatably attached at a free end of said drive arm; and, a gear assembly for translating movement of said drive shaft to said driven wheels to effect locomotion of said train. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said drive mechanism further comprises: an extension shaft operatively connected to and driven by said motor assembly; a linkage assembly operatively connected to said extension shaft and to each of said plurality of drive arms for extending and collapsing said drive arms relative to said drive module. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said linkage assembly comprises: a plurality of extension arms, each extension arm pivotally connected to a different one of said drive arms; and, an extension unit pivotally connected to each of said extension arms and operatively connected to said extension shaft for translating movement of said extension shaft to said extension arms. 6. The system of claim 4 wherein said motor assembly comprises: a drive motor for driving said drive shaft; and, an extension motor for driving said extension shaft. 7. The system of claim 2 wherein said data collection components are housed in said drive module and comprise a camera and lights. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein said data collection components are selected from the group consisting of imaging systems including a camera and light source, ultasonic wall thickness sensors, potentiometers, accelerometers, sensors for detecting magnetic flux leakage, sensors for detecting eddy currents, wheel follower odometers and any combination thereof. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of modules include at least one power module. 10. The system of claim 30 wherein said power source is rechargeable by generating power with an in line gas flow powered turbine system. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein the mid-train modules adjacent said terminal modules comprise: a second mounting member positioned on an end of said mid-train module adjacent said terminal module, said second mounting member being rotatable about the central axis of the mid-train module on which it is positioned; and, one of said rotatable gears positioned on said second mounting member in an orientation such that the axis of its rotation is perpendicular to the axis of rotation of said second mounting member and perpendicular to the axis of rotation of said rotatable gear of said terminal module. 12. The system of claim 9 wherein said power module comprises: a power source; and, means for transferring power from said power source to each of said drive mechanism, said data collection components and said data communication components. 13. The system of claim 10 wherein said turbine system comprises: an in-line turbine driven by gas flow within the pipeline; and, a generator driven by the turbine for supplying energy to said power source. 14. The system of claim 11 wherein said first mounting member comprises: a pair of opposing clevis mounts spaced from each other; said rotatable gear of said terminal module being positioned for rotation about an axis of rotation between said opposing clevis mounts; and, said second mounting member being pivotally connected to said pair of opposing clevis mount. 15. The system of claim 12 wherein said power source is rechargeable. 16. The system of claim 12 wherein the pipeline includes a portal to a location external to the pipe and said power source is rechargeable by connection through the portal to a generator external to the pipeline. 17. The system of claim 12 wherein said power source comprises a chemical energy source. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein said chemical energy source is a battery pack. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein said battery pack is comprised of at least two sub packs, each having a plurality of battery cells therein. 20. The system of claim 19 wherein said battery cells are selected from the group consisting of lithium ion cells, nickel metal hydride cells and alkaline cells. 21. A system for inspection of selective conditions in a pipeline comprising: a self-propelled train comprising: a plurality of modules, at least one of said modules having a drive mechanism for effecting locomotion of said train; at least one joint member for interconnecting adjacent modules in said train, said joint member configured to allow articulation of said modules relative to each other through multiple planes and angles, said at least one joint member comprising a double-axis steerable interconnect joint comprised of a first interconnect unit positioned on one of said modules and rotatably and pivotally connected to a second interconnect unit positioned on an adjacent one of said modules and a single-axis steerable interconnect joint comprised of a third interconnect unit positioned on one of said modules and rotatably connected to a fourth interconnect unit positioned on an adjacent one of said modules, said modules interconnected by said single-axis interconnect joint having no more than one module in common with said modules interconnected by said double-axis interconnect joint; data collection components; and, communication components for transmitting collected data. 22. The system of claim 21 wherein said data collection components comprise an imaging system. 23. The system of claim 21 wherein said data collection components are selected from the group consisting of imaging systems including a camera and light source, ultrasonic wall thickness sensors, potentiometers accelerometers, sensors for detecting magnetic flux leakage, sensors for detecting eddy currents, wheel follower odometers and any combination thereof. 24. The system of claim 21 further comprising: a power source, wherein said power source is rechargeable by generating power with an in-line gas flow powered turbine system, said turbine system comprising; an in-line turbine driven by gas flow within the pipeline; and, a generator driven by the turbine for supplying energy to said power source. 25. The system of claim 21 wherein each said module has a central axis and each of said third and fourth interconnect units comprises: a single-axis mounting member positioned on an end of a module in facing relationship to an end of an adjacent module; a third motor assembly; a third gear assembly operatively connected to said third motor assembly; and, a portion of said third gear assembly positioned for rotation about an axis of rotation. 26. The system of claim 25 wherein said single axis mounting members are fixedly attached to their respective modules; said axis of rotation of said gear portion of said third interconnect unit is substantially parallel to the central axis of the module on which said third interconnect unit is positioned; and, said axis of rotation of said gear portion of said fourth interconnect unit is offset from the central axis of the module on which said fourth interconnect unit is positioned by about ninety degrees. 27. The system of claim 26 wherein said third gear assemblies each include a pinion-bevel gear. 28. The system of claim 21 wherein said plurality of modules further comprises: at least one drive module positioned on the end of said train; at least two power modules, one being positioned adjacent to each drive module; and, said double-axis interconnect joint is positioned between each said drive module and said power module adjacent to said drive module. 29. The system of claim 21 wherein said communication components comprise wireless communication components. 30. The system of claim 29 wherein said wireless communication components comprise an antenna for communicating to a remote receiver. 31. The system of claim 30 wherein said antenna comprises an inverted F antenna and antenna reflector circuit board. 32. The system of claim 29 wherein said wireless communication components comprise a wireless Ethernet link to a remote receiver. 33. The system of claim 29 wherein said wireless communication components comprise means for transmitting low frequency electromagnetic waves through one or both of the pipe and the pipe walls. 34. The system of claim 27 wherein said wireless communication components comprise means for transmitting radio-waves. 35. The system of claim 21 wherein said communication components comprise fiber optic cables having an optical communications link. 36. The system of claim 21 wherein said plurality of modules include at least one support module. 37. The system of claim 36 wherein said support module comprises: a support arm mechanism for supporting said train. 38. The system of claim 22, wherein: a first of the plurality of modules includes the imaging system; and a second of the plurality of modules includes a digital image receiver in communication with the imaging system for receiving image data captured by the imaging system. 39. The system of claim 38, wherein the digital image receiver includes a LVDS receiver. 40. The system of claim 38 wherein the second module further includes a processor in communication with the digital image receiver for processing the image data. 41. The system of claim 38, wherein the second module further comprises wireless network communications components in communication with the processor. 42. The system of claim 41, wherein: the processor is for packetizing the image data; and the wireless network communications components are for transmitting the packetized image data via a wireless communication network to a remote user interface. 43. A system for inspection of selective conditions in a pipeline comprising: a self-propelled train comprising: a plurality of modules, at least one of said modules having a drive mechanism for effecting locomotion of said train; at least one joint member for interconnecting adjacent modules in said train, said joint member configured to allow articulation of said modules relative to each other through multiple planes and angles, said at least one joint member comprising a double-axis steerable interconnect joint comprised of a first interconnect unit positioned on one of said modules and rotatably and pivotally connected to a second interconnect unit positioned on an adjacent one of said modules and wherein said a first interconnect unit comprises: a first mounting member positioned on an end of a module in facing relationship to an end of an adjacent module; a first steering motor assembly; a first gear assembly operatively connected to said first steering motor assembly; and, a portion of said first gear assembly positioned for rotation about a first axis of rotation. 44. The system of claim 43 wherein said first mounting member comprises a pair of clevis mounts defining a space therebetween and said portion of said first gear is positioned in said space between said pair of clevis mounts. 45. The system of claim 43 wherein each said module has a central axis and said first mounting member comprises a swivel block rotatable about an axis of rotation parallel to the central axis of the module on which said swivel block is positioned and said first axis of rotation is offset about ninety degrees relative to the axis of rotation of said swivel block. 46. The system of claim 43 wherein said second interconnect unit comprises: a second mounting member positioned on an end of a module in facing relationship to an end of an adjacent module; a second steering motor assembly; a second gear assembly operatively connected to said second steering motor assembly; and, a portion of said second gear assembly positioned for rotation about a second axis of rotation. 47. The system of claim 46 wherein said second mounting member comprises a pair of clevis mounts defining a space therebetween and said portion of said second gear is positioned in said space between said pair of clevis mounts. 48. The system of claim 46 wherein each said module has a central axis; said second mounting member on said second interconnect unit comprises a swivel block rotatable about an axis of rotation parallel to the central axis of the module on which said swivel block is positioned; and, said second axis of rotation is offset about ninety degrees relative to the axis of rotation of said swivel block. 49. The system of claim 48 wherein said first mounting member on said first interconnect unit comprises a pair of clevis mounts defining a space therebetween and said portion of said first gear is positioned in said space between said pair of clevis mount; said swivel block is pivotally connected to said pair of clevis mounts; and, the first axis of rotation is substantially parallel to the central axis of the module on which said first interconnect unit is positioned and is substantially perpendicular to the second axis of rotation. 50. The system of claim 43 wherein said plurality of modules comprise: two drive modules, one positioned at each end of said train; two power modules, each power module being positioned adjacent to a different one of said drive modules; and, two support modules, each support module being positioned adjacent to a different one of said power modules; and, an electronics module positioned between said two support modules. 51. The system of claim 50 wherein each said power module comprises: a power source; and, means for transferring power from said power source to each of said drive mechanism, said data collection components and said data communication components. 52. The system of claim 51 wherein said power source is rechargeable. 53. The system of claim 52 wherein said power source is rechargeable by generating power with an in line gas flow powered turbine system. 54. The system of claim 52 wherein said power source is rechargeable by electrical connection to a generator. 55. The system of claim 51 wherein said power source comprises a chemical energy source. 56. The system of claim 55 wherein said chemical energy source is a battery pack. 57. The system of claim 50 wherein each said support module comprises: a housing having first and second end caps; a support arm mechanism positioned within said housing of said support module for supporting said train; and, electronic components for communication of electrical signals to and from said support module to at least one other module within said train. 58. The system of claim 50 wherein said electronics module includes computer components comprising a processor and a converter, and electrical connection members for passage of electrical signals between said electronics module and at least one other module of said plurality of modules. 59. The system of claim 43 wherein said plurality of modules includes two drive modules positioned at each end of said train, and an electronics module positioned therebetween; each said drive module having one of said drive mechanisms and said data collection components housed therein, and said electronics module having a power supply and computing components housed therein. 60. The system of claim 43 wherein said plurality of modules includes two drive modules positioned at each end of said train, each said drive module having one of said drive mechanisms and said data collection components housed therein, and a power module positioned between said drive modules, said power module having a battery pack and computing components housed therein, said battery pack having sufficient stored power for providing power to drive said drive mechanisms, said data collection components, said wireless communication components and said computing components for at least eight hours of continuous operation. 61. The system of claim 60 wherein said data collection components are selected from the group consisting of imaging systems including a camera and light source, potentiometers accelerometers, sensors for detecting magnetic flux leakage, sensors for detecting eddy currents, ultrasonic sensors, wheel follower odometers and any combination thereof. 62. A system for inspection of selective conditions in a pipeline comprising: a self-propelled train comprising: a plurality of modules comprising at least one support module having a support arm mechanism for supporting said train, and at least one of said plurality of modules having a drive mechanism for effecting locomotion of said train; at least one joint member for interconnecting adjacent modules in said train, said joint member configured to allow articulation of said modules relative to each other through multiple planes and angles; data collection components; and, communication components for transmitting collected data; wherein said support arm mechanism comprises: a plurality of passive arms, each said passive arm having a wheel rotatably attached to a free end thereof; and, an idler motor assembly; an extension shaft operatively connected to and driven by said idler motor assembly; a linkage assembly operatively connected to said extension shaft and to each of said plurality of passive arms for extending and collapsing said passive arms relative to said support module for supporting and centering said train within the pipeline as the train moves. 63. The system of claim 62 wherein said data collection components are selected from the group consisting of imaging systems including a camera and light source, ultraconic wall thickness sensors potentiometers, accelerometers, sensors for detecting magnetic flux leakage, sensors for detecting eddy currents, wheel follower odometers and any combination thereof. 64. The system of claim 62 wherein said at least one joint member comprises a universal joint. 65. The system of claim 62 wherein each module of said train has a central axis and at least one of said joint members is configured for rotation about a first axis generally perpendicular to the central axis of the module to which the joint member is interconnected and for rotation about a second axis generally parallel to the central line of the module to which the joint member is interconnected. 66. The system of claim 62 wherein said plurality of modules further comprises: two terminal modules, one positioned at each end of the train; a plurality of mid train modules including said support modure positioned between the terminal modules, and, wherein there are multiple joint members of the system further comprising: a double-axis steerable interconnect joint positioned between each terminal module and the mid-train module adjacent thereto, said double-axis interconnect joint being movable about two axes of rotation; a single-axis steerable interconnect joint positioned between adjacent mid-train modules, said single-axis interconnect joint being movable about a single axis or rotation. 67. The system of claim 66 wherein each of said double-axis interconnect joints rotate about both a pitch axis and a roll axis, and each of said single-axis interconnect joints rotate about a pitch axis. 68. The system of claim 67 wherein said modules each comprise a motor for driving the movement of said double-axis and single-axis interconnect joints. 69. The system of claim 68 wherein each of said double-axis and single-axis interconnect joints include a rotatable gear mounted on each module of the joint for engagement with the rotatable gear on the adjacent module. 70. The system of claim 62 wherein said linkage assembly comprises: a plurality of idler extension arms, each idler extension arm pivotally connected to a different one of said passive arms; and, a nut pivotally connected to each of said idler extension arms and operatively connected to said extension shaft for translating movement of said extension shaft to said passive arms. 71. The system of claim 62 wherein said passive arms carry motion sensors for detecting the rotational movements of said wheels of said passive arms. 72. The system of claim 62 wherein there are at least two passive arms spaced from each other about said support module. 73. The system of claim 62 wherein said support module further comprises at least one interconnect unit on an end thereof for interconnection to an adjacent one of said plurality of modules. 74. The system of claim 62 wherein said plurality of modules comprises: at least one drive module positioned at an end of said train, said at least one drive module having said drive mechanism and said data collection components housed therein; at least one power module positioned adjacent to one end of said at least one drive module, said at least one power module having a battery pack; and, an electronics module positioned adjacent one of said drive module and said power module, said electronics module having computing components housed therein, wherein said battery pack has sufficient stored power for providing power to drive said drive mechanisms, said data collection components, said wireless communication components and said computing components for at least eight hours of continuous operation. 75. The system of claim 74 further comprising sensors in said power module. 76. The system of claim 74 further comprising sensors in said electronics module. 77. The system of claim 74 wherein said joint members interconnecting each of said adjacent modules comprise universal joints. 78. The system of claim 74 wherein said data collection components are selected from the group consisting of imaging systems including a camera and light source, potentiometers, accelerometers, sensors for detecting magnetic flux leakage, sensors for detecting eddy currents, wheel follower odometers and any combination thereof. 79. A system for inspection of selective conditions in a pipeline comprising: a self-propelled train comprising: a plurality of modules comprising at least one support module having at least one interconnect unit on an end thereof for interconnection to an adjacent one of said plurality of modules and at least one of said plurality of modules having a drive mechanism for effecting locomotion of said train; at least one joint member for interconnecting adjacent modules in said train, said joint member configured to allow articulation of said modules relative to each other through multiple planes and angles; data collection components; and, communication components for transmitting collected data; wherein said interconnect unit comprises: a pair of opposing clevis mounts spaced from each other; a steering motor assembly; a first gear assembly operatively connected to said steering motor assembly; and, a portion said first gear assembly positioned for rotation about a single axis of rotation between the pair of clevis mounts. 80. The system of claim 79 further comprising: a power source; an in-line turbine driven by gas flow within the pipeline; and, a generator driven by the turbine for supplying energy to said power source. 81. The system of claim 79 wherein said data collection components are selected from the group consisting of imaging systems including a camera and light source, ultraconic wall thickness sensors, potentiometers, accelerometers, sensors for detecting magnetic flux leakage, sensors for detecting eddy currents, wheel follower odometers and any combination thereof. 82. The system of claim 79 wherein said support module has two interconnect units, one on each end thereof, said interconnect units being movable about a single axis of rotation. 83. The system of claim 79 wherein said support module includes electrical connection members for passage of electrical signals between at least one other module of said plurality of modules. 84. The system of claim 79 wherein said plurality of modules includes an electronics module. 85. The system of claim 84 wherein said electronics module includes computer components. 86. The system of claim 85 wherein said computer components comprise a processor and a converter, and electrical connection members for passage of electrical signals between said electronics module and at least one other module of said plurality of modules. 87. The system of claim 84 wherein said electronics module includes a portion of a joint member, said portion comprising at least one single axis interconnect unit for interconnecting said electronics module to an adjacent one of said plurality of modules. 88. A system for inspection of selective conditions in a pipeline comprising: a self-propelled train comprising: a plurality of modules comprising an electronics module, said electronics module including a portion of a joint member, said portion comprising at least one single axis interconnect unit for interconnecting said electronics module to an adjacent one of said plurality of modules; at least one of said plurality of modules having a drive mechanism for effecting locomotion of said train; at least one joint member for interconnecting adjacent modules in said train, said joint member configured to allow articulation of said modules relative to each other through multiple planes and angles; data collection components; and, communication components for transmitting collected data said one single axis interconnect unit comprises: a mounting unit configured for pivotally connecting to a pair of clevis mounts of said adjacent module; and, a gear assembly mounted for rotation on said mounting unit about an axis of rotation; said gear assembly having a portion thereof configured for complementary rotational engagement with a gear assembly on said adjacent module. 89. The system of claim 88 wherein said plurality of modules further comprises: a leading drive module; a power module; a first one of said plurality of joint members connecting one end of said leading drive module to one end of said power module, said power module having another end; a support module; a second one of said plurality of joint members connecting said other end of said power module to said support module, said support module having another end; wherein said electronics module is connected to said other end of said support module by a third one of said plurality of joint members and said single axis interconnect unit on said electronics module forms a portion of the third joint member connecting said electronics module to said support module. 90. The system of claim 89 wherein each said module of said plurality of modules has a central axis and said first one of said plurality of joint members comprises a joint configured for rotation about a first axis generally perpendicular to the central axis of the drive module and for rotation about a second axis generally parallel to the central line of the drive module; and, said second one of said plurality of joint members comprises a joint configured for rotation about an axis generally perpendicular to the central axis of at least one of the power module or the support module. 91. The system of claim 90 wherein said first one of said plurality of joint members first and second interconnect units, said first interconnect unit comprising: a pair of opposing clevis mounts defining a space therebetween; a steering motor assembly; a first gear assembly operatively connected to said steering motor assembly; and, a portion said first gear assembly positioned for rotation about an axis of rotation between the pair of clevis mounts and having an engagement surface. 92. The system of claim 91 wherein said leading drive module includes said first interconnect unit; said adjacent power module includes a mounting member positioned on an end of thereof for rotation about the central axis of said power module and a rotatable gear positioned on said mounting member in an orientation such that the axis of rotation of said power module gear is perpendicular to the axis of rotation of said portion of said first gear assembly of said drive module, said power module gear having an engagement surface thereon configured for complementary engagement with the engagement surface of said portion of said first gear. 93. The system of claim 92 wherein said support module includes one of said second one of said plurality of joint members on each end thereof. 94. The system of claim 93 further comprising; two drive modules, one positioned at each end of said train; two power modules, each being positioned adjacent to a different one of said drive modules; and, two support modules, each being positioned adjacent to a different one of said power modules; wherein said electronics module is positioned between said support modules. 95. A system for inspection of selective conditions in a pipeline comprising: a self-propelled train comprising: a plurality of modules, at least one of said modules having a drive mechanism for effecting locomotion of said train; at least one joint member for interconnecting adjacent modules in said train, said joint member configured to allow articulation of said modules relative to each other through multiple planes and angles; data collection components; and, communication components for transmitting collected data; wherein said plurality of modules comprise: two drive modules, one positioned at each end of said train; two power modules, each power module being positioned adjacent to a different one of said drive modules; and, two support modules, each support module being positioned adjacent to a different one of said power modules; and, an electronics module positioned between said two support modules; and, wherein one of said plurality of joint members is positioned between each said drive module and an adjacent said power module, said joint member comprising a drive interconnect unit and a power interconnect unit, said drive interconnect unit comprising: a pair of opposing clevis mounts spaced from each other; a steering motor assembly; a first gear assembly operatively connected to said steering motor assembly; and, a portion said first gear assembly positioned for rotation about an axis of rotation between the pair of clevis mounts. 96. The system of claim 95 wherein each said module has a central axis and each of said power interconnect units comprises: a mounting unit mounted for rotation about the central axis of the power module and pivotally connected to said pair of clevis mounts of said adjacent drive interconnect unit; a second gear assembly mounted for rotation on said mounting unit about an axis off set from the axis of rotation of said first gear assembly by about 90.degree.; said second gear assembly having a portion thereof configured for complementary rotational engagement with said portion of said first gear assembly. 97. The system of claim 96 wherein said drive modules comprise: a housing having a front end cap and a rear end cap; said drive mechanism poisoned in said housing; said data collection components positioned in said front end cap; and, said wireless communication components positioned in said housing. 98. The system of claim 97 wherein said drive mechanism comprises: a motor assembly; a drive shaft operatively connected to and driven by said motor assembly; a plurality of drive arms extending outwardly from said housing, each drive arm having at least one driven wheel rotatably attached at a free end of said drive arm external to said housing of said drive member; and, a gear assembly for translating movement of said drive shaft to said driven wheels to effect locomotion of said train. 99. The system of claim 98 wherein said drive mechanism further comprises: an extension shaft operatively connected to and driven by said motor assembly; a linkage assembly operatively connected to said extension shaft and to each of said plurality of drive arms for extending said drive arms outwardly from said housing of said drive module and collapsing said drive arms into said housing of said drive module. 100. The system of claim 99 wherein said linkage assembly comprises: a plurality of extension arms, each extension arm pivotally connected to a different one of said drive arms; and, an extension unit pivotally connected to each of said extension arms and operatively connected to said extension shaft for translating movement of said extension shaft to said extension arms. 101. The system of claim 100 wherein there are at least two drive arms radially spaced from each other. 102. The system of claim 101 wherein said motor assembly comprises: a drive motor for driving said drive shaft; and, an extension motor for driving said extension shaft. 103. The system of claim 97 wherein said data collection components comprise an imaging system. 104. The system of claim 103 wherein said imaging system comprises a camera and lights. 105. A system for inspection of selective conditions in a pipeline comprising: a self-propelled train comprising: data collection components; communication components for transmitting collected data; a plurality of modules, comprising two drive modules, one positioned at each end of said train for effecting locomotion of said train; two power modules, each power module being positioned adjacent to a different one of said drive modules; two support modules, each support module being positioned adjacent to a different one of said power modules, and each said support module having a housing having first and second end caps, a support arm mechanism positioned within said housing of said support module for supporting said train, and electronic components for communication of electrical signals to and from said support module to at least one other module within said train; and, an electronics module positioned between said two support modules, at least one joint member for interconnecting adjacent modules in said train, said joint member configured to allow articulation of said modules relative to each other through multiple planes and angles; wherein said support arm mechanism comprises: a plurality of passive arms, each said passive arm having a wheel rotatably attached to a free end thereof; an idler motor assembly in said support module housing; an extension shaft in said support module housing operatively connected to and driven by said idler motor assembly; and, a linkage assembly operatively connected to said extension shaft and to each of said plurality of passive arms for extending said passive arms outwardly from said support module housing and collapsing said passive arms into said support module housing. 106. The system of claim 105 wherein said linkage assembly comprises: a plurality of idler extension arms, each idler extension arm pivotally connected to a different one of said passive arms; and, a nut pivotally connected to each of said idler extension arms and operatively connected to said extension shaft for translating movement of said extension shaft to said passive arms. 107. The system of claim 105 wherein said passive arms carry locomotion sensors for detecting the rotational movements of said wheels of said passive arms. 108. The system of claim 105 wherein there are at least two passive arms spaced radially from each other about said support module housing. 