An apparatus for thermally processing a microelectronic workpiece is set forth. The apparatus comprises a first assembly and a second assembly, disposed opposite one another, with an actuator disposed to provide relative movement between the first assembly and second assembly. More particularly, the actuator provides relative movement between at least a loading position in which the first assembly is in a state for loading or unloading of the microelectronic workpiece, and a thermal processing position in which the first assembly and second assembly are proximate one another and form a thermal processing chamber. A thermal transfer unit is disposed in the second assembly and has a workpiece support surface that is heated and cooled in a controlled manner. As the first assembly and second assembly are driven to the thermal processing position by the actuator, an arrangement of elements bring a surface of the microelectronic workpiece into direct physical contact with the workpiece support surface of the thermal transfer unit. In a preferred embodiment, the thermal transfer unit is comprised of a low thermal mass heater and a high thermal mass cooler disposed to controllably cool the low thermal mass heater.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for thermally processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: first and second members positionable relative to one another to form a thermal process chamber; a thermal transfer unit in thermal communication with the thermal process chamber at least when the first and second members are juxtaposed proximate to one another; an actuator coupled to at least one of the first and second members to juxtapose the members proximate one another to form the thermal process chamber while the thermal transfer unit has an at least generally fixed position; and a workpiece support so constructed and arranged that a microelectronic workpiece carried by the support will be transferred to a position at least closer to the thermal process unit as a consequence of the actuator juxtaposing the members proximate one another. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first member is movable relative to the second member, and wherein the thermal transfer unit has a fixed position relative to the second member. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the thermal transfer unit has a contact surface positioned to releasably contact the microelectronic workpiece, and wherein the workpiece support is positioned to release the microelectronic workpiece into contact with the contact surface when the members are juxtaposed proximate to one another. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first member is positioned above the second member. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the thermal transfer unit includes a heater. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the thermal transfer unit includes an electrical resistance heater and a ceramic substrate. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the thermal transfer unit is a first thermal transfer unit positioned to heat the microelectronic workpiece and wherein the apparatus further comprises a second thermal transfer unit positioned to cool the first thermal transfer unit, at least one of the first and second thermal transfer units being movable relative to the other between a first position with the first thermal transfer unit generally out of thermal communication with the second thermal transfer unit and a second position with the first thermal transfer unit in thermal communication with the second thermal transfer unit. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the thermal transfer unit is a first thermal transfer unit positioned to heat the microelectronic workpiece and wherein the apparatus further comprises a second thermal transfer unit positioned to cool the first thermal transfer unit, at least one of the first and second thermal transfer units being movable relative to the other between a first position with the first thermal transfer unit spaced apart from the second thermal transfer unit and a second position with the first thermal transfer unit in contact with the second thermal transfer unit. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the workpiece support is movable relative to the thermal transfer unit between a first position with the microelectronic workpiece generally out of thermal communication with the thermal transfer unit, and a second position with the microelectronic workpiece in thermal communication with the thermal transfer unit. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the thermal transfer unit includes vacuum passages coupleable to a vacuum source, the vacuum passages being positioned to apply a vacuum to the microelectronic workpiece when the members are juxtaposed proximate to one another. 11. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: first and second assemblies positionable relative to one another to form a thermal process chamber therebetween, the second assembly including a thermal transfer unit having an at least generally fixed position and so constructed and arranged to be in thermal communication with the thermal process chamber when the first and second assemblies are juxtaposed proximate to one another; an actuator coupled to at least one of the first and second assemblies to juxtapose the assemblies proximate one another to form the thermal process chamber; and a workpiece support connected to one of the first and second assemblies, the support being so constructed and arranged that a microelectronic workpiece carried by the support will be transferred from the support to the thermal process unit as a consequence of the actuator juxtaposing the assemblies proximate one another. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: a loading station positioned to receive microelectronic workpieces; an automated workpiece transfer device positioned at least proximate to the loading station and the first and second assemblies, the workpiece transfer device being movable relative to both the loading station and the assemblies to move microelectronic workpieces between the loading station and the assemblies; and an enclosure disposed around at least a portion of the assemblies, the loading station and the workpiece transfer device. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a processing station configured to apply a material to a microelectronic workpiece. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first member is positioned above the second member and wherein relative movement of at least one member disengages the microelectronic workpiece from the workpiece support and positions the microelectronic workpiece in contact with the thermal transfer unit. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the thermal transfer unit includes a cooler. 16. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the first assembly is positioned above the second assembly and wherein relative movement of the at least one assembly disengages the microelectronic workpiece from the workpiece support and positions the microelectronic workpiece in contact with the thermal transfer unit. 17. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the thermal transfer unit includes a heater. 18. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the thermal transfer unit includes a cooler. 19. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the first assembly is movable relative to the second assembly, and wherein the thermal transfer unit has a fixed position relative to the second assembly. 20. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one member contacts the workpiece support as it moves to juxtapose the members proximate to one another. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the workpiece support is positioned to limit motion of the at least one member as the at least one member moves to juxtapose the members proximate to one another. 22. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the thermal transfer unit includes at least one recess positioned to receive a corresponding portion of the workpiece support when the members are juxtaposed proximate to each other. 23. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of the first and second members includes a port coupleable to a source of gas to introduce gas into the thermal process chamber when the members are juxtaposed proximate to each other. 24. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the at least one assembly contacts the workpiece support as it moves to juxtapose the assemblies proximate to one another. 25. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the workpiece support is positioned to limit motion of the at least one assembly as the at least one assembly moves to juxtapose the assemblies proximate to one another. 26. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the thermal transfer unit includes at least one recess positioned to receive a corresponding portion of the workpiece support when the assemblies are juxtaposed proximate to each other. 27. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein at least one of the first and second assemblies includes a port coupleable to a source of gas to introduce gas into the thermal process chamber when the assemblies are disposed proximate to each other. 28. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the thermal transfer unit includes vacuum passages coupleable to a vacuum source, the vacuum passages being positioned to apply a vacuum to the microelectronic workpiece when the assemblies are juxtaposed proximate to on another. 29. An apparatus for thermally processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: first and second members positionable relative to one another to form a thermal process chamber, the first member being positioned above the second member; a thermal transfer unit in thermal communication with the thermal process chamber at least when the first and second members are juxtaposed proximate to one another; an actuator coupled to at least one of the first and second members to juxtapose the members proximate one another to form the thermal process chamber; and a workpiece support carried by the first member and so constructed and arranged that a microelectronic workpiece carried by the support will be transferred to a position at least closer to the thermal process unit as a consequence of the actuator juxtaposing the members proximate one another. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein the thermal transfer unit has a contact surface positioned to releasably contact the microelectronic workpiece, and wherein the workpiece support is positioned to release the microelectronic workpiece into contact with the contact surface when the members are juxtaposed proximate to one another. 31. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein the thermal transfer unit includes a heater. 32. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein the thermal transfer unit is a first thermal transfer unit positioned to heat the microelectronic workpiece and wherein the apparatus further comprises a second thermal transfer unit positioned to cool the first thermal transfer unit, at least one of the first and second thermal transfer units being movable relative to the other between a first position with the first thermal transfer unit generally out of thermal communication with the second thermal transfer unit and a second position with the first thermal transfer unit in thermal communication with the second thermal transfer unit. 33. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein the workpiece support is movable relative to the thermal transfer unit between a first position with the microelectronic workpiece generally out of thermal communication with the thermal transfer unit, and a second position with the microelectronic workpiece in thermal communication with the thermal transfer unit. 34. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: first and second assemblies positionable relative to one another to form a thermal process chamber therebetween, the second assembly positioned below the first assembly and including a thermal transfer unit so constructed and arranged to be in thermal communication with the thermal process chamber when the first and second assemblies are juxtaposed proximate to one another; an actuator coupled to at least one of the first and second assemblies to juxtapose the assemblies proximate one another to form the thermal process chamber; and a workpiece support carried by the first assembly, the support being so constructed and arranged that a microelectronic workpiece carried by the support will be transferred from the support to the thermal process unit as a consequence of the actuator juxtaposing the assemblies proximate one another. 35. The apparatus of claim 34 further comprising a processing station configured to apply a material to a microelectronic workpiece. 36. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein the thermal transfer unit includes a heater. 37. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein the thermal transfer unit includes a cooler. 38. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein the workpiece support is positioned to limit motion of the at least one assembly as the at least one assembly moves to juxtapose the assemblies proximate to one another. 39. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: a first assembly that includes a movable first member and a workpiece support configured to carry a microelectronic workpiece; a second assembly that includes a thermal transfer unit and is positioned below the first member, the first member being positionable relative to thermal transfer unit to form a thermal process chamber between the first member and the thermal process unit when the first and second assemblies are juxtaposed proximate to one another; and an actuator coupled to the first assembly to juxtapose the assemblies proximate one another to form the thermal process chamber. 40. The apparatus of claim 39 wherein the second assembly includes a second member below the first member, and wherein the thermal transfer unit has an at least generally fixed position relative to the second member, further wherein the first member and the workpiece support are movable relative to the second member and the thermal transfer unit. 41. The apparatus of claim 39 wherein the workpiece support is so constructed and arranged that a microelectronic workpiece carried by the support will be transferred from the support to the thermal process unit as a consequence of the actuator juxtaposing the assemblies proximate one another. 42. The apparatus of claim 39 wherein the thermal transfer unit is a first thermal transfer unit, and wherein the second assembly includes a second thermal transfer unit, with at least one of the thermal transfer units movable relative to the other. 43. An apparatus for thermally processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: first and second members positionable relative to one another to form a thermal process chamber; a thermal transfer unit in thermal communication with the thermal process chamber at least when the first and second members are juxtaposed proximate to one another; an actuator coupled to at least one of the first and second members to juxtapose the members proximate one another to form the thermal process chamber while the thermal transfer unit has an at least generally fixed position; and a workpiece support configured to carry a microelectronic workpiece in the thermal process chamber. 44. The apparatus of claim 43 wherein the workpiece support is so constructed and arranged that a microelectronic workpiece carried by the support will be transferred to a position at least closer to the thermal process unit as a consequence of the actuator juxtaposing the members proximate one another. 45. An apparatus for thermally processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: first and second members positionable relative to one another to form a thermal process chamber, the first member being positioned above the second member; a thermal transfer unit in thermal communication with the thermal process chamber at least when the first and second members are juxtaposed proximate to one another; an actuator coupled to at least one of the first and second members to juxtapose the members proximate one another to form the thermal process chamber; and a workpiece support carried by the first member and configured to carry a microelectronic workpiece. 46. The apparatus of claim 45 wherein the workpiece support is so constructed and arranged that a microelectronic workpiece carried by the support will be transferred to a position at least closer to the thermal process unit as a consequence of the actuator juxtaposing the members proximate one another. 