Mechanisms for passive gravity compensation for a system of linkage arms are provided. Gravity compensation is provided through a pair of non-circular gear profiles, with an end of each linkage arm connected to a separate gear set of two non-circular cam bodies, by way of separate cables. Springs in the gear sets provide tension in the cables. The tension in each cable varies according to the angle through which the cam bodies have turned as a result of the co-operating non-circular surfaces of the cam bodies. This, in turn is based on the amount the arms have turned and thereby allows the tension in the cables to compensate for the moments on the arms due to gravity, whatever angles they are at, independently of the angle of the other arm. To achieve this for the first arm of the linkage, the tension in the cable leading to the second arm of the linkage is also transmitted as a torque to the first arm through a pulley mounted on the rotation axis of the first arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanism for gravity compensating a first rotatable member, comprising: the first rotatable member; a first rotatable body, pivotable about a first axis, mounted to rotate as the first rotatable member rotates and having a first non-circular surface portion; a second rotatable body, pivotable about a second axis, having a second non-circular surface portion; and a first spring for biasing the second rotatable body in a rotation direction; wherein the first and second rotatable bodies are arranged to rotate each other through the first and second non-circular surface portions; and the first and second non-circular surface portions are sized and shaped and the first spring has a property such that the torque on the first member provided through the first rotatable body compensates for gravity on the first rotatable member. 2. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first and second non-circular surface portions are arranged to rotate without relative slip. 3. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first and second non-circular surface portions are arranged to rotate each other directly. 4. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising a flexible belt having two ends, one of the ends mounted on the first rotatable body and the other end mounted on the second rotatable body and the belt passing between the first and second rotatable bodies and through a plane containing the first and second axes. 5. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first and second non-circular surface portions are sized and shaped such that the rotational torque of the first rotatable body, due to the spring, varies according to a cosine of a multiple of the angle of rotation of the first rotatable body. 6. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first and second rotatable bodies are each arranged to rotate between two extreme positions, between which the direction in which the first spring biases the second rotatable body to rotate is unchanging. 7. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising a first cable having two ends; and wherein the first member is mounted on a third pivot axis and the first rotatable body is connected to rotate with the first member by way of the first cable. 8. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 7, further comprising a first circular surface portion arranged to rotate with the first rotatable body; and wherein one end of the cable is connected to the first member and the other end is connected to said first circular surface portion. 9. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 8, wherein the first circular surface portion is integral with the first rotatable body. 10. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 8, wherein the first circular surface portion is arranged to rotate with the first rotatable body through a gear mechanism. 11. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 7, further comprising a third circular surface portion mounted to rotate with the first member on the third pivot axis; and wherein one end of the cable is connected to the third circular surface portion to pull in or pay out the first cable as the third circular surface portion rotates. 12. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising a second circular surface portion arranged to rotate with the second rotatable body; and wherein one end of the first spring is connected to said second circular surface portion. 13. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first spring is a linear spring having two ends. 14. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first rotatable member is an arm. 15. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising: a third rotatable body for rotating about a third pivot axis and providing a torque for gravity compensating a second member, the third rotatable body having a third non-circular surface portion; a fourth rotatable body for rotating about a fourth pivot axis and having a fourth non-circular surface portion; and a second spring for biasing the fourth rotatable body in a rotation direction; wherein the third and fourth rotatable bodies are arranged to rotate each other through the third and fourth non-circular surface portions. 16. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 15, further comprising: a rotatable first member; and a rotatable second member; and wherein the first rotatable body is arranged to rotate with the first member; the third rotatable body is arranged to rotate with the second member; the first and second non-circular surface portions are sized and shaped and the first spring has a property such the torque on the first member provided through the first rotatable body compensates for gravity on the first member; and the third and fourth non-circular surface portions are sized and shaped and the second spring has a property such the torque on the second member provided through the third rotatable body compensates for gravity on the second member. 17. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 16, further comprising: a first cable having two ends; a second cable having two ends; a first circular surface portion mounted to rotate with the first member; and a second circular surface portion mounted to rotate with the second member; wherein one end of the first cable is connected to the first circular surface portion to pull in or pay out the first cable as the first circular surface portion rotates with the first member and the first rotatable body is connected to rotate with the first member by way of the first cable; and one end of the second cable is connected to the second circular surface portion to pull in or pay out the second cable as the second circular surface portion rotates with the second member and the second rotatable body is connected to rotate with the second member by way of the second cable. 18. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 17, further comprising: one or more additional members rotatably connected in series on the second member; an additional two rotatable bodies for each additional rotatable member; an additional cable for each additional rotatable member; and an additional circular surface portion mounted to rotate with each additional member; wherein one end of each additional cable is attached to a respective additional circular surface portion; and the second end of each additional cable is attached to a rotatable body of the respective additional two rotatable bodies. 19. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first rotatable body is rotatable relative to the second rotatable body; and as the first and second rotatable bodies rotate each other through the first and second non-circular surface portions, an amount through which the first body rotates varies relative to an amount through which the second body rotates. 20. A gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first rotatable body is arranged to rotate the second rotatable body through the first and second non-circular surface portions; and the second rotatable body is arranged to rotate the first rotatable body through the second and first non-circular surface portions. 21. A rotatable body rotatable about an axis and having a non-circular surface portion, wherein the non-circular surface portion forms at least a portion of a curve which satisfies the equation 22. A rotatable body rotatable about an axis and having a non-circular surface portion, wherein the non-circular surface portion forms at least a portion of a curve which satisfies the equation 23. A mechanism comprising: a first rotatable body, pivotable about a first axis, having a first non-circular surface portion; and a second rotatable body, pivotable about a second axis, having a second non-circular surface portion; wherein the first and second non-circular surface portions rotate with each other, such that an angle of rotation A2 of the second body relative to a second datum is related to an angle of rotation A1 of the first body relative to a first datum by 24. A gravity compensated rotatable member system comprising: a rotatably mounted first member; a spring biased first rotatable body mounted to rotate about a first pivot axis and having a first non-circular surface portion; a first circular surface portion mounted to rotate with the first member; and a first cable connected to the first circular surface portion to pull in or pay out the first cable as the first circular surface portion rotates; wherein the first rotatable body is connected to rotate with the first member by way of the first cable; and the spring biased rotatable body is shaped such that the torque on the first circular surface portion due to the tension in the first cable compensates for the moment on the first member due to gravity. 25. A gravity compensated rotatable member system comprising: a plurality of members rotatably mounted in series, one on the other; a plurality of spring biased first rotatable bodies, one associated with each member and each having a first non-circular surface portion; a plurality of first circular surface portions, one associated with each member and mounted to rotate therewith; one or more second circular surface portions associated with each member, one second circular surface portion associated with each member mounted to rotate with each member preceding that member in the series; and a plurality of first cables, one associated with each member and connected to the first circular surface portion of the member with which it is associated, to pull in or pay out the first cable as the first circular surface portion rotates; wherein each first rotatable body is connected to rotate with its associated member by way of a first cable; each cable passes over every second circular surface portion associated with the member with which it is associated and transmits the tension in the cable as a torque to the members with which those second circular surface portions rotate, through those second circular surface portions; and the spring biased first rotatable bodies are shaped such that the combined torques on the members from the first and second circular surface portions, due to the tensions in the first cables, compensate for the moments on the members due to gravity. 26. A mechanism for gravity compensating a first rotatable member, comprising: a first rotatable body, pivotable about a first axis, for receiving a first torque profile generated by the first rotatable member as the first rotatable member rotates, for rotating with the first rotatable member and having a first non-circular surface portion; a second rotatable body, pivotable about a second axis, having a second non-circular surface portion; and a first spring for biasing the second rotatable body in a first rotation direction; wherein the first and second rotatable bodies are arranged to rotate each other through the first and second non-circular surface portions; the first and second non-circular surface portions have sizes and shapes and the first spring has a property which are selected for use with a first rotatable member which generates a predetermined first torque profile as the first rotatable member rotates; the first spring causes the first rotatable body to generate a second torque profile to apply to the first rotatable member as the first rotatable body rotates; and the second torque profile corresponds to the predetermined first torque profile. 27. A mechanism for gravity compensating a first rotatable member, comprising: a first rotatable body, pivotable about a first axis, for rotating with the first rotatable member and having a first non-circular surface portion; a second rotatable body, pivotable about a second axis, having a second non-circular surface portion; and a first spring for biasing the second rotatable body in a rotation direction; wherein the first and second rotatable bodies are arranged to rotate each other through the first and second non-circular surface portions; the first rotatable body is rotatable relative to the second rotatable body; and as the first and second rotatable bodies rotate each other through the first and second non-circular surface portions, an amount through which the first body rotates varies relative to an amount through which the second body rotates. 28. A mechanism for gravity compensating a first rotatable member, comprising: a first rotatable body, pivotable about a first axis, for rotating with the first rotatable member and having a first non-circular surface portion; a second rotatable body, pivotable about a second axis, having a second non-circular surface portion; and a first spring for biasing the second rotatable body in a rotation direction; wherein the first rotatable body is arranged to rotate the second rotatable body through the first and second non-circular surface portions; and the second rotatable body is arranged to rotate the first rotatable body through the second and first non-circular surface portions. 29. A mechanism for gravity compensating a first rotatable member, comprising: a first rotatable body, pivotable about a first axis, for rotating with the first rotatable member and having a first non-circular surface portion; a second rotatable body, pivotable about a second axis, having a second non-circular surface portion; and a first spring for biasing the second rotatable body in a rotation direction; wherein the first and second rotatable bodies are arranged to rotate each other through the first and second non-circular surface portions; and the first and second rotatable bodies are each arranged to rotate between two extreme positions, between which the direction in which the first spring biases the second rotatable body to rotate is unchanging. 30. Gravity compensating mechanism according to claim 29, wherein the first rotatable body is arranged to receive a first torque profile generated by the first rotatable member as the first rotatable member rotates; the first and second non-circular surface portions have sizes and shapes and the first spring has a property which are selected for use with a first rotatable member which generates a predetermined first torque profile as the first rotatable member rotates; the first spring causes the first rotatable body to generate a second torque profile to apply to the first rotatable member as the first rotatable body rotates; and the second torque profile corresponds to the predetermined first torque profile. 