Certain transcription factors (enhancer binding proteins) significantly increase transcription rates from genes by nicking a single DNA strand in the vicinity of their DNA binding sites, thereby allowing RNA polymerase to gain access to the transcribed DNA strand by a process of "threading". DNA template nicking is a detectable and quantifiable byproduct indicative of transcriptional activation that can be used to design practical assays. These assays are used to determine which transcription factors (enhancer binding proteins) are actively catalyzing the transcription of a gene in any cell type, or in any cell in response to any drug or treatment. This group of transcription factors have a predictable molecular biological activity in addition to transcription activation, namely site-specific DNA strand cleavage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting eukaryotic nicking transcription factor activity comprising the steps of: a) providing a DNA template comprising at least one binding region for a transcription factor; b) contacting the DNA template with at least one eukaryotic nicking transcription factor; and c) detecting the presence or absence of a nick in the DNA template at or near the binding region of the eukaryotic nicking transcription factor, wherein the presence of a nick in the DNA template indicates nicking transcription factor activity. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the transcription factor is in a nuclear cell extract. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: a) isolating the DNA template; and b) inserting the DNA template into a viral or plasmid vector and introducing the template into a cell. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of fixing the DNA template to a matrix. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the matrix is a biological chip. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the presence or absence of a nick in a DNA template is measured by determining the change in electrophoretic mobility of nicked DNA on an electrophoretic gel. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the presence or absence of a nick in a DNA template is determined by a SI nuclease assay. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the presence or absence of a nick in a DNA template is determined by a primer extension reaction. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the presence or absence of a nick in a DNA template is determined by a polymerase chain reaction amplification reaction. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the presence or absence of a nick in a DNA template is determined by a DNA sequencing assay. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the presence or absence of a nick in a DNA template is determined by a protein binding assay. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the eukaryotic nicking transcription factor comprises a site specific DNA binding transcription factor. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the eukaryotic nicking transcription factor comprises an enhancer binding protein. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the eukaryotic nicking transcription factor comprises a general transcription factor. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the eukaryotic nicking transcription factor regulates the transcription of protein encoding RNA. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the eukaryotic nicking transcription factor is selected from the group consisting of CREB,TFIIIC and c-jun. 