A temperature-sensing wafer position detection system and method which uses temperature to determine whether a wafer is properly positioned on a bake plate prior to commencement of a photolithography baking process, for example. The system includes a bake plate and a temperature-sensing apparatus which engages the bake plate and measures the change in temperature (.DELTA.T) of the bake plate over a specified time interval to determine whether the wafer is properly or improperly positioned on the support. In the event that the .DELTA.T of the bake plate is at least as great as a given temperature change threshold value over a specified time interval, this indicates that the wafer is properly positioned for processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A temperature-sensing wafer position detection system for carrying out a wafer baking process comprising: a bake plate having a temperature-sensing apparatus for monitoring a change in temperature of said bake plate heating surface upon placement of a wafer in proximity to said bake plate heating surface; a microprocessor in signal communication with said temperature-sensing apparatus for receiving a temperature data signal from said temperature-sensing apparatus to determine a temperature change over time of said bake plate heating surface. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said temperature-sensing apparatus comprises a plurality of pyrometers arranged for sensing a temperature of said bake plate heating surface. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising a base carried by said bake plate heating surface and a wafer guide extending upwardly from said base for guiding said wafer onto said base to define a heating space between said bake plate heating surface and said wafer. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said temperature-sensing apparatus comprises a plurality of pyrometers arranged for sensing a temperature of said bake plate heating surface portion underlying said wafer. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein said bake plate heating surface comprises a base on said heating surface for supporting said wafer in spaced-apart relationship to said heating surface. 6. The system of claim 5 further comprising a wafer guide on said base for guiding said wafer onto said base. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein said temperature-sensing apparatus comprises a plurality of pyrometers extending through a plate body to said bake plate heating surface for sensing a temperature of said base plate heating surface. 8. A temperature-sensing wafer position detection system for carrying out a wafer baking process comprising: a bake plate having a temperature-sensing apparatus comprising temperature sensors in proximity to said bake plate heating surface for monitoring a change in temperature of said bake plate heating surface upon placement of a wafer in spaced apart relationship to said bake plate heating surface to define a heating space; a controller in signal communication with said bake plate for controlling said wafer baking process in response to said detected wafer position; and, a microprocessor in signal communication with said temperature-sensing apparatus for receiving a temperature data signal from said temperature-sensing apparatus, said microprocessor programmed for determining a temperature change over time of said bake plate heating surface to detect said wafer position; said microprocessor further in signal communication with said controller for sending a signal to said controller in response to said temperature change to control said wafer baking process. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said bake plate heating surface comprises a base carried by said heating surface for supporting the wafer in spaced-apart relationship to said heating surface. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein said temperature sensors comprises a plurality of pyrometers in proximity to said heating surface. 11. The system of claim 9 further comprising a wafer guide carried by said base for guiding the wafer onto said base. 12. A method of sensing a position of a wafer on a bake plate to improve a wafer baking process, comprising: setting said bake plate heating surface at about a temperature set point prior to carrying out said wafer baking process; placing said wafer in proximity to said bake plate heating surface; then determining a change in temperature of said bake plate heating surface over a specified time interval according to temperature sensors; then determining said wafer position with respect to said bake plate heating surface in response to said change in temperature; and, determining a subsequent process step in response to said wafer position selected from the group consisting of aborting said wafer baking process and proceeding with said wafer baking process. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of determining said wafer position comprises determining said wafer is properly positioned wherein said change in temperature is at least as great as a predetermined threshold value for said change in temperature. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said threshold value is one percent of said set point temperature. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said specified time interval is 10 seconds. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of determining said wafer position comprises determining said wafer is properly positioned wherein said change in temperature is less than a predetermined threshold value for said change in temperature. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said threshold value is one percent of said set point temperature. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said specified time interval is 10 seconds. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein said change in temperature is greater for an acceptable wafer position relative to an unacceptable wafer position. 20. The system of claim 1, further comprising a controller in signal communication with said microprocessor for controlling said wafer baking process in response to said temperature change. 