A closed-loop control system that remotely controls a device over a distributed communications system includes a device that is connected to the distributed communications system and that generates super-media feedback signals. A computer is connected to the distributed communications system and includes a controller that provides super-media feedback. The computer generates and transmits command signals using the controller to the device and outputs the super-media feedback signals to the controller. The closed-loop control system is event-based to ensure stability and synchronization of the closed-loop system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A closed-loop control system that remotely controls a device over the Internet, comprising: a device that is connected to said Internet and that generates super-media feedback signals; a computer connected to said Internet and a controller that provides super-media feedback, wherein said computer generates and transmits command signals using said controller to said device and outputs said super-media feedback signals to said controller; wherein said closed-loop control system is event-based to ensure stability and synchronization of said closed-loop system. 2. The closed-loop control system of claim 1 wherein said computer includes a command module that generates said command signals based on user input to said controller. 3. The closed-loop control system of claim 2 wherein said command module translates said input to said controller to a velocity command signal and transmits said velocity command signal to said device. 4. The closed-loop control system of claim 3 wherein said controller includes a first and second button, wherein said first button enables said controller to send said velocity command signals based on a position of said controller. 5. The closed-loop control system of claim 4 wherein said second button enables said controller to send video control commands based on said input to said controller for controlling a video sensor that is associated with said device. 6. The closed-loop control system of claim 5 wherein when a video frame is received by said computer, said video playback module displays said video frame if said video frame event is close in time to a current super-media feedback event. 7. The closed-loop control system of claim 6 wherein said video playback module discards said video frame if said video frame event is not close in time to said current super-media feedback event. 8. The closed-loop control system of claim 7 wherein a haptic playback module discards a haptic event if said haptic event is not close in event to a reference super-media feedback event. 9. The closed-loop control system of claim 1 wherein said device includes a video sensor that generates video frames and said computer includes a video playback module that controls playback of said video frames that are generated by said device. 10. The closed-loop control system of claim 1 wherein said device includes an audio sensor that generates audio frames and said computer includes an audio playback module that controls playback of said audio frames generated by said audio sensor of said device. 11. The closed-loop control system of claim 10 wherein when said audio frame is received, said audio playback module plays said audio frame if said audio frame event is close in time to a current super-media feedback event. 12. The closed-loop control system of claim 11 wherein a super-media playback module discards a super-media event if said super-media event is not close in time to a reference super-media feedback event. 13. The closed-loop control system of claim 12 wherein said audio playback module discards said audio frame if said audio frame event is not close in time to said current super-media feedback event. 14. The closed-loop control system of claim 1 wherein said device is a robot. 15. The closed-loop control system of claim 1 wherein said device includes a processing unit with a motion module that controls movement of said device. 16. The closed-loop control system of claim 15 wherein said processing unit includes a video module that controls a video sensor. 17. The closed-loop control system of claim 16 wherein said processing unit includes an audio module that controls an audio sensor. 18. The closed-loop control system of claim 17 wherein said device includes at least one distance sensor that generates a distance signal based a distance between said device and at least one obstacle. 19. The closed-loop control system of claim 18 wherein said motion module receives said distance signal, generates a modified command signal using an obstacle avoidance algorithm, and generates said super-media feedback signal based on an actual velocity of said device. 20. A method for remotely controlling a device using a closed-loop control system over the Internet, comprising: connecting a device to said distributed communications system; generating super-media feedback signals using said device; connecting a computer to said distributed communications system that includes a controller that provides super-media feedback; generating command signals for said device using said controller and said computer; transmitting said commands to said controller; receiving said super-media feedback signals from said device; and outputting said super-media feedback signals to a user using said controller, wherein said closed-loop control system is event-based to ensure stability and synchronization. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein said computer includes a command module that generates said command signals based on input to said controller. 22. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of: controlling playback of video frames that are generated by a video sensor that is associated with said device. 23. The method of claim 22 further comprising the step of: displaying said video frame on said computer when said video frame is received if said video frame event is close in event to said super-media feedback event. 24. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of: controlling playback of audio frames that are generated by an audio sensor that is associated with said device. 25. The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of: playing said audio frame on said computer when said audio frame is received if said audio frame event is close in event to said super-media feedback event. 26. The method of claim 20 wherein said device is a robot. 27. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of: controlling movement of said device using a motion module that includes an obstacle avoidance algorithm. 28. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of: controlling a video sensor that generates video frames using a video module. 29. The method of claim 28 further comprising the step of: controlling an audio sensor that generates audio frames using an audio module. 30. The method of claim 29 further comprising the step of: using at least one distance sensor to generate a distance signal based on a distance between said device and at least one obstacle. 31. The method of claim 30 further comprising the steps of: receiving said distance signal; generating a modified command signal based on an obstacle avoidance algorithm; and generating said super-media feedback signal based on an actual velocity of said device. 32. The method of claim 20 further comprising the steps of: translating a position of said controller to a velocity command signal; and transmitting said velocity command signal to said motion module. 33. The method of claim 20 wherein said controller includes a first and second button. 34. The method of claim 33 further comprising the steps of: enabling said controller to send said velocity command signals based input to said controller when said first button is not pressed. 35. The method of claim 34 further comprising the steps of: enabling said controller to send video control commands based on input to said controller for controlling a video sensor that is associated with said device when said first button is pressed. 