A modular dual-beam source, sample compartment and beam-combining system are provided when used with a monochromator and detector to form a spectrophotometer consisting of: (a) a source module where two ellipsoidal mirrors each produce an image of the light source, and (b) a reflecting sample-compartment module, wherein each side has two plane-mirrors, of the four plane mirrors, three are reference and one is the sample, or (c) a transmission sample-compartment module, wherein each side has two plane-mirrors, and a sample is placed between one pair of plane-mirrors, and (d) a beam-combining module wherein the source images are imaged by a second pair of ellipsoidal mirrors on a reflective chopper that combines the images at a single location that is imaged, external to the module, by another mirror, each module being kinematically located with respect to each other so the system remains optically aligned as modules are interchanged.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular dual beam source, sample compartment and beam-combining system that can be used together with any monochromator or spectral filter and detector having the desired spectral coverage so the combination can be used as a spectrophotometer consisting of: (a) a source module having a shutter, wherein a single light source is reimaged the same distance from the source by a pair of mirror image, off-axis, ellipsoidal mirrors down two parallel paths to form two images of the light source, and either (b1) a reflecting sample compartment module with two halves wherein one half the re-imaged light from the source falls in between two plane mirror surfaces, one of which is the sample to be measured and the other a reference surface, and in the other half the re-imaged light falls similarly in between two plane mirrors, both of which are reference surfaces, or (b2) a transmission sample compartment module with two halves wherein one half the re-imaged light from the source falls in between two plane mirror surfaces between which the sample to be measured is placed normal to the beam, while the other half is identical but has no sample, and (c) a beam-combining module wherein the two images of the source having traversed one of the sample compartment modules, are re-imaged at approximately 1:1 by a pair of mirror image off-axis ellipsoidal mirrors on a reflective chopper that recombines the re-imaged source at a single location that is then re-image again at 1:1 by another off-axis ellipsoidal mirror to a focus external to the module, each module being kinematically located with respect to each other so that the system remains optically aligned when the modules are interchanged. 2. The modular system of claim 1 where the sample compartment contains two integrating spheres for the measurement of total transmission. 3. The modular system of claim 1 where the off-axis mirrors are computer numerically control (CNC) machined from blocks of metal that are located by pins to the same fixed locations during machining as they are to fixed locations within the modules so the optical prescription of any module may be changed by varying the optical prescription of the mirror as input to the CNC machine without affecting the alignment of the modules when they are mounted together via their kinematic locators. 4. The modular system of claim 1 where the mirrors are CNC machined and then polished just enough to remove the machining marks and made specular without any attempt to change their shape or spatial location by polishing. 5. The modular system of claim 1 where the shutter in the source module has the form of a rotating drum with holes positioned for the light to pass through. 6. The modular system of claim 1 where the reflecting sample compartment module and source module are so aligned to avoid mechanical interference with the source module so that a sample of any size larger than the sample beam diameter can be measured for reflectivity at near normal incidence. 7. The modular system of claim 1 where the light from the source is imaged in the middle of the sample compartment, either transmission or reflection, so the sample may be moved along the light beam to interrogate a larger area when the sample is moved away from the focused position. 8. The modular system of claim 1 with the addition of an insertable small plane mirror in the converging beam between the final off axis ellipsoidal mirror and the monochromator slit that directs the image of the source onto an electronic camera, the sensitive area of which is conjugate with the source and monochromator slit, thereby allowing an operator or robotic control system to see that the sample is properly aligned prior to the start of a measurement. 9. The modular system of claim 1 with the purpose of allowing a sample to be placed in one path of the dual paths so that the signal presented to the monochromator and detector represents the transmission or reflection with first the sample in the beam and then without the sample. 10. The modular system of claim 1 with the shutter in the source module closed for 90 degrees of its revolution, open for 90 degrees toward one path through the system, closed again for 90 degrees and then open for 90 degrees through the other path of the system per revolution of the shutter and synchronized with the reflective chopper running twice as fast as the shutter so the detector sees no light in the path with the sample, then light through sample, then no light in the path with no sample and then light with no sample in that path so that the signal seen by the detector is first no light, or just background noise in the path with the sample, light through the sample representing how the sample modifies the light, then no light, or just background noise in the path with no sample and then light in that same path so the detector sees the source without modification by a sample any particular wavelength. 11. The modular system of claim 1 where the system can be used without a sample in either path of the dual system so a measure can be made of the differences of the two paths through the instrument as a function of wavelength, thereby obtaining an instrument signature, which is stored in the memory of an associated computer controlling the system so this signature can be applied as a correction when a sample is placed in the system for measurement, permitting a background and 100% signal to be obtained for both paths through the system for every configuration of source, sample compartment and beam-combining module prior to a sample measurement. 12. The modular system of claim 1 where each module is pre-aligned and manufactured without adjustments, thereby permitting modules to be replaced without need for re-alignment. 13. The modular system of claim 1 where each module is pre-aligned and manufactured without adjustments, thereby permitting modification of the geometrical arrangement of the modules and change of the optical prescription, such that the changed modules can be used with existing modules without the need for any adjustment. 14. The modular system of claim 1 wherein the optics are CNC machined according to a deterministic prescription and are located during machining by the same features as when they are assembled into the modules. 15. The modular system of claim 1 where the sample compartment is configured to be compatible with a production environment to allow the use of robotic loading of samples so that the system can be used for process control. 