This invention relates to methods and apparatus for making articles made of polyester, preferably polyethylene terephthalate (PET), having coated directly to at least one of the surfaces thereof one or more layers of thermoplastic material with good gas-barrier characteristics. In one preferred method and apparatus, preforms are injection molded, barrier-coated immediately thereafter, and remain on a mold portion for a time to speed cooling of the completed preform. Preferably the barrier-coated articles take the form of preforms coated by at least one layer of barrier material and the containers are blow-molded therefrom. Such barrier-coated containers are preferably of the type to hold beverages such as soft drinks, beer or juice. The preferred barrier materials have a lower permeability to oxygen and carbon dioxide than PET as well as key physical properties similar to PET. The materials and methods provide that the barrier layers have good adherence to PET, even during and after the blow molding process to form containers from preforms. Preferred barrier coating materials include poly(hydroxyamino ethers).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laminate consisting of a first layer and a second layer, the first layer comprising polyethylene terephthalate, and the second layer comprising a thermoplastic material selected from the group consisting of copolyester barrier materials, phenoxy-type thermoplastics, polyethylene naphthalate, polyethylene naphthalate copolymers, polyethylene naphthalate/polyethylene terephthalate blends, polyethylene terephthalate and combinations thereof; and said polyethylene terephthalate in the first layer has an isophthalic acid content of at least about 2% by weight, wherein the first layer is directly adhered to the second layer. 2. A laminate according to claim 1, wherein the isophthalic acid content of the polyethylene terephthalate in the first layer is about 2%-10% by weight. 3. A laminate according to claim 1, wherein the isophthalic acid content of the polyethylene terephthalate in the first layer is about 4%-5% by weight. 4. A laminate according to claim 1, wherein the isophthalic acid content of the polyethylene terephthalate in the first layer is about 3%-8% by weight. 5. A laminate according to claim 1, wherein the isophthalic acid content of the polyethylene terephthalate in the first layer is about 5%-10% by weight. 6. A laminate according to claim 1, wherein the second layer of thermoplastic material is a copolyester barrier material. 7. A laminate according to claim 1, wherein the second layer of thermoplastic material is polyethylene terephthalate comprising recycled or post-consumer polyethylene terephthalate. 8. A laminate according to claim 1, wherein the second layer of thermoplastic material is a phenoxy-type thermoplastic. 9. A laminate according to claim 8, wherein the phenoxy-type thermoplastic is a poly(hydroxyamino ether). 10. A laminate according to claim 9, wherein the poly(hydroxyamino ether) further comprises one or more resorcinol derivatives. 11. A laminate according to claim 10, wherein the resorcinol derivative comprises resorcinol diglycidyl ether. 12. A laminate in the form of a preform or container comprising a neck portion and a body portion, wherein said body portion consists of first and second layers, wherein: the first layer comprises polyethylene terephthalate having an isophthalic acid content of at least about 2% by weight bound directly to the second layer comprising a thermoplastic material, wherein said thermoplastic material is selected from the group consisting of copolyester barrier materials, phenoxy-type thermoplastics, polyethylene naphthalate, polyethylene naphthalate copolymers, polyethylene naphthalate/polyethylene terephthalate blends, and combinations thereof. 13. A laminate according to claim 12, wherein the isophthalic acid content of the polyethylene terephthalate is about 2%-10% by weight. 14. A laminate according to claim 12, wherein the isophthalic acid content of the polyethylene terephthalate is about 4%-5% by weight. 15. A laminate according to claim 12, wherein the thermoplastic material is a copolyester barrier material. 16. A laminate in the form of a preform or container according to claim 12, wherein the body portion of the preform or container comprises a wall portion and an end cap and the first layer is thinner in the end cap than in the wall portion and the second layer is thicker in the end cap than in the wall portion. 17. A laminate according to claim 16, wherein the laminate has an inner layer, and the first layer is the inner layer of the preform or container. 18. A laminate according to claim 12, wherein the thermoplastic material is a phenoxy-type thermoplastic. 19. A laminate according to claim 18, wherein the phenoxy-type thermoplastic is a poly(hydroxyamino ether). 20. A laminate according to claim 19, wherein the poly(hydroxyamino ether) further comprises one or more resorcinol derivatives. 21. A laminate according to claim 20, wherein the resorcinol derivative comprises resorcinol diglycidyl ether. 22. A container or preform comprising a neck portion and a body portion, wherein said body portion consists of: a first layer of polyethylene terephthalate having an isophthalic acid content of at least about 2% by weight; and a second layer directly bound to said first layer, said second layer comprising a thermoplastic material selected from the group consisting of copolyester barrier materials, phenoxy-type thermoplastics, polyethylene naphthalate, polyethylene naphthalate copolymers, polyethylene naphthalate/polyethylene terephthalate blends, and combinations thereof, wherein the first layer forms an interior surface of the preform or container. 23. A container or preform according to claim 22, wherein the isophthalic acid content of the polyethylene terephthalate is about 2%-10% by weight. 24. A container or preform according to claim 22, wherein the isophthalic acid content of the polyethylene terephthalate is about 4%-5% by weight. 25. A container or preform according to claim 22, wherein the thermoplastic material is a copolyester barrier material. 26. A container or preform according to claim 22, wherein the thermoplastic material is a phenoxy-type thermoplastic. 27. A container or preform according to claim 26, wherein the phenoxy-type thermoplastic is a poly(hydroxyamino ether). 28. A container or preform according to claim 27, wherein the poly(hydroxyamino ether) further comprises one or more resorcinol derivatives. 29. A container or preform according to claim 28, wherein the resorcinol derivative comprises resorcinol diglycidyl ether. 