An automotive vehicle is provided having a body being assembled by a joining process line from a plurality of workpieces joined into a plurality of subassemblies according to the steps of providing templates arranged in a predetermined alignment to form a process line, with each template being generated from a defined set of standardized task stations which are operative to perform a joining process on a workpiece of the subassemblies, fixturing workpieces in a workpiece presenter provided in the task stations, at least one workpiece presenter including a tooling plate removably connected and precision located on a platform of a workpiece presenter, and sequentially joining the workpieces together to form the body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automotive vehicle having a motive source powering a power train which is mounted to a vehicle body, said vehicle body being assembled by a joining process line from a plurality of workpieces joined into a plurality of subassemblies according to the steps of: providing a plurality of templates arranged in a predetermined alignment to form a process line, with each template being generated from a defined set of standardized task stations which are operative to perform the joining process on a workpiece of said subassemblies; fixturing the plurality of workpieces in at least one workpiece presenter provided in said task stations, said at least one workpiece presenter including a tooling plate which is removably connected and precision located on a platform of the workpiece presenter; and sequentially joining said workpieces together to form subassemblies of said body and sequentially joining said subassemblies to form said body. 2. The automotive vehicle as described in claim 1 wherein said body subassemblies are welded together. 3. The automotive vehicle as described in claim 1 wherein said vehicle is a front wheel drive vehicle. 4. The automotive vehicle as described in claim 1 wherein said vehicle is a rear wheel drive vehicle. 5. The automotive vehicle as described in claim 1 wherein said vehicle is a passenger vehicle. 6. The automotive vehicle as described in claim 1 wherein said vehicle is a sports utility vehicle. 7. The automotive vehicle as described in claim 1 wherein said vehicle is a truck. 8. A unibody automotive vehicle body assembled by a joining process line from a plurality of workpieces joined into a plurality of subassemblies according to the steps of: providing a plurality of templates arranged in a predetermined alignment to form a process line with each template being generated from a defined set of standardized task stations which are operative to perform the joining process on a workpiece of said subassemblies; fixturing the plurality of workpieces in at least one workpiece presenter provided in said task stations, said at least one workpiece presenter including a tooling plate which is removably connected and precision located on a platform of the workpiece presenter; and sequentially joining said workpieces together to form subassemblies of said body and sequentially joining said subassemblies to form said body. 9. The automotive vehicle body as described in claim 8 wherein said body subassemblies are welded together. 10. The automotive vehicle body as described in claim 8 wherein said vehicle is a front wheel drive vehicle. 11. The automotive vehicle body as described in claim 8 wherein said vehicle is a rear wheel drive vehicle. 12. The automotive vehicle body as described in claim 8 wherein said vehicle is a passenger vehicle. 13. The automotive vehicle body as described in claim 8 wherein said vehicle is a sports utility vehicle. 14. The automotive vehicle body as described in claim 8 wherein said vehicle is a truck. 15. A frame chassis type automotive vehicle body assembled by a joining process line from a plurality of workpieces joined into a plurality of subassemblies according to the steps of: providing a plurality of templates arranged in a predetermined alignment to form a process line, with each template being generated from a defined set of standardized task stations which are operative to perform the joining process on a workpiece of said subassemblies; fixturing the plurality of workpieces in at least one workpiece presenter provided in said task stations, said at least one workpiece presenter including a tooling plate which is removably connected and precision located on a platform of the workpiece presenter; and sequentially joining said workpieces together to form subassemblies of said body and sequentially joining said subassemblies to form said body. 16. The automotive vehicle body as described in claim 15 wherein said body subassemblies are welded together. 17. The automotive vehicle body as described in claim 15 wherein said vehicle is a front wheel drive vehicle. 18. The automotive vehicle body as described in claim 15 wherein said vehicle is a rear wheel drive vehicle. 19. The automotive vehicle body as described in claim 15 wherein said vehicle is a passenger vehicle. 20. The automotive vehicle body as described in claim 15 wherein said vehicle is a sports utility vehicle. 21. The automotive vehicle body as described in claim 15 wherein said vehicle is a truck. 