A system and method is used for measuring the performance of semiconductor processing tools. A software component may be used to define a set of performance variables and associate performance limits. From the set of performance variables, a set of variables may be selected to create a customized test for a particular tool. The system may be used to store the results of the tests within the system for fast comparison with the associated performance limits, with previous test results, or both. The system may be used to display an overall status of groups of performance variables.
Claims We claim: 1. A computer-readable-medium containing computer-executable instructions for performing a method for assuring the quality of a semiconductor processing tool, the semiconductor processing tool coupled to a process tool controller, the method comprising: (a) measuring a first set of values for a test set of one or more performance variables, the one or more performance variables being adapted to measure the performance of the semiconductor processing tool; (b) storing the first set of values in a computer-readable medium coupled to the process tool controller; (c) subsequently measuring a second set of values for the test set of one or more performance variables; (d) storing the second set of values in a computer-readable medium coupled to the process tool controller; (e) retrieving the first set of values from the computer-readable medium storing the first set of values, after performing element (c); and (f) comparing the second set of values with the first set of values. 2. The computer-readable-medium of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: (g) creating a master file, including a master set of one or more performance variables being adapted to measure the performance of the semiconductor processing tool; (h) creating a test file, including the test set of one or more performance variables, wherein the test set of one or more performance variables are selected from the master set of one or more performance variables. 3. The computer-readable medium of claim 2, wherein (h) creating the test file comprises selection of the test set of performance variables based upon a classification category of the processing tool. 4. The computer-readable-medium of claim 2, wherein elements (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) are performed at least once after installing the semiconductor processing tool. 5. The computer-readable-medium of claim 1, wherein at least one of the test set of values is acquired using one or more sensors in response to a first user command, the sensors coupled to the process tool controller. 6. The computer-readable-medium of claim 5, wherein the method further comprises: (i) causing the semiconductor processing tool to perform an action prior to performing element (a), wherein at least one of the test set of one or more performance variables is adapted to automatically measure a performance value during the action; and (j) storing the performance value; wherein element (a) comprises retrieving the stored performance value. 7. The computer-readable-medium of claim 6, wherein element (i) is initiated in response to a second user command, the second user command being prior to the first user command. 8. The computer-readable-medium of claim 1, wherein at least one of the test set of values is acquired by manual input into a software module installed on the process tool controller. 9. The computer-readable-medium of claim 1, wherein elements (a), (b), (c), and (d) are performed prior to installing the semiconductor processing tool. 10. The computer-readable-medium of claim 1, wherein elements (a) and (b) are performed prior to installing the semiconductor processing tool and elements (c) and (d) are performed at least once after installing the semiconductor processing tool. 11. The computer-readable-medium of claim 1, wherein elements (a), (b), (c), and (d) are performed at least once after installing the semiconductor processing tool. 12. The computer-readable-medium of claim 1, wherein storing the first set of values and storing the second set of values comprises storing each set of values in the same computer-readable medium. 13. The computer-readable-medium of claim 1, wherein the process tool controller comprises an other computer-readable medium, containing second computer-executable instructions defining a sequence of processing steps in a processing recipe wherein elements (a), (b), (c) and (d) are performed at a time when no processing recipe is executed. 14. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein comparing comprises displaying a comparison of the first and second set of values. 15. A computer-readable-medium containing computer-executable instructions for performing a method for assuring the quality of a semiconductor processing tool, the semiconductor processing tool coupled to a process tool controller, the method comprising: (a) storing a first set of performance variables as a master file in a first computer-readable medium, at least one of the first set of performance variables being associated with at least one semiconductor processing tool type and being associated with one or more limit values; (b) selecting a semiconductor processing tool type; (c) in response to element (b), selecting a second set of performance variables from among the performance variables in the first set of one or more performance variables, said second set of one or more performance variables being associated with the semiconductor processing tool type selected in element (b); and (d) storing the second set of one or more performance variables with associated limit values in a second computer-readable medium. 16. The computer-readable-medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: (e) for at least one of the second set of one or more performance variables, acquiring a test value and displaying a comparison of the acquired test value to at least one associated limit value. 17. The computer-readable-medium of claim 16, wherein the second set of one or more performance variables comprises one or more groups of variables and further comprising displaying an aggregate display of the comparison status of the individual performance variables within at least one of the groups of variables. 18. The computer-readable-medium of claim 15, further comprising at least one software module installed on the process tool controller. 19. The computer-readable-medium of claim 18, wherein the second set of one or more performance variables comprises one or more groups of variables and further comprising displaying an aggregate display of the acquisition status of the individual performance variables within at least one of the groups of variables. 20. The computer-readable-medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: (f) for at least one of the second set of one or more performance variables, displaying whether a value has been acquired for the variable. 21. A process tool controller configured to perform a method for assuring the quality of a semiconductor processing tool coupled to the process tool controller, the method comprising: (a) acquiring a set of processing tool values for a test file, the test file comprising a subset of semiconductor processing tool performance variables automatically generated from a master file; (b) storing the set of values in a first computer-readable medium. 22. The process tool controller of claim 21 wherein the first computer-readable medium is in the controller. 23. The process tool controller of claim 21, wherein the first computer-readable medium is coupled to the controller. 24. The process tool controller of claim 21, wherein the method is not perform during wafer processing. 