Methods for the manufacture of reinforcing preforms for structural composite products. Minimum contact eyelets reduce friction in the supply provide chopped reinforcing materials to both of said first and second mold members, and spraying said chopped reinforcing materials into both of said first and second mold members.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for manufacturing reinforcing performs for structural composite moldings, said method comprising the steps of: providing a mold member for making a perform; providing a robotic member adjacent said mold member, said robotic member adapted to provide chopped reinforcing materials to said mold member; providing string reinforcing materials to said robotic member from a material supply system; guiding said string reinforcing materials to said robotic member through a supply system having a plurality of eyelet members, at least one of said eyelet members having a passage for said string reinforcing materials with an enlarged entrance opening and enlarged exit openings; chopping said string reinforcing materials into smaller pieces by said robotic member; and spraying said chopped reinforcing materials into said mold member. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of the said eyelet members has a passage for said string reinforcing materials with an enlarged entrance opening and an enlarged exit opening. 3. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprising positioning at least one tubular member between at least two adjacent eyelet members. 4. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprising the step of supplying air to said mold member from an air supply system. 5. A method for manufacturing reinforcing performs for structural composite moldings, said method comprising the steps of: providing a first mold member for making a first perform; providing a second mold member for making a second perform; providing a robotic member adjacent said first and second mold members, said robotic member adapted to provide chopped reinforcing materials to said first and second mold members; providing string reinforcing materials to said robotic member from a material supply system; guiding said string reinforcing materials to said robotic member through a supply system having a plurality of eyelet members, at least one of said eyelet members having a passage for said string reinforcing materials with an enlarged entrance opening and enlarged exit openings; chopping said string materials into smaller pieces by said robotic member; and spraying said chopped reinforcing materials into said first and second mold member. 6. The method as formed in claim 5 wherein each of said eyelet members has a passage for said string reinforcing materials with an enlarged entrance opening and an enlarged exit opening. 7. The method as recited in claim 5 further comprising positioning at least one tubular member between at least two adjacent eyelet members. 8. The method as recited in claim 5 further comprising the step of supplying air to said first and second mold members from at least one air supply system. 9. The method as recited in claim 8 wherein air is supplied to said first mold member from a first air supply system and air is supplied to said second mold member from a second air supply system. 10. The method as recited in claim 5 further comprising the step of programming said robotic member in order to supply reinforcing materials to said first and second mold members in accordance with prespecified routines. 11. A method for manufacturing reinforcing performs for structural composite moldings, said method comprising the steps of: providing a first mold member for making a first perform; providing a robotic member adjacent said first mold member, said robotic member adapted to provide chopped reinforcing materials to said first mold member; providing string reinforcing materials to said robotic member from a material supply system; guiding said string reinforcing materials to said robotic member through a first and second plurality of eyelet members, said first plurality of eyelet members being arranged in a first curved configuration and said second plurality of eyelet members being arranged in a second curved configuration and, positioning tubular members between eyelet members in both of said first and second plurality of eyelet members; chopping said string reinforcing materials into smaller pieces by said robotic member; and spraying said chopped reinforcing materials into said first mold member. 12. The method as recited in claim 11 wherein at least one of said eyelet members in one of said first and second plurality of eyelet members has a passage with an enlarged entrance opening and an enlarged exit opening. 13. The method as recited in claim 12 wherein each of said eyelet members in each of said first and second plurality of eyelet members has a passage with an enlarged entrance opening and an enlarged exit opening. 14. The method as recited in claim 11 further comprising the step of supplying air to said mold member from an air supply system. 15. The method as recited in claim 11 further comprising providing a second mold member for making a second perform, said robotic member being positioned adjacent each of said first and second mold members and adapted to provide chopped reinforcing materials to both of said firs and second mold members, and spraying said chopped reinforcing materials into both of said first and second mold members. 