An apparatus of the invention has a closable chamber that can be sealed and is capable of withstanding an increased pressure and high temperature. The chamber contains a substrate holder that can be rotated around a vertical axis, and an edge-grip mechanism inside the substrate holder. The deposition chamber has several inlet ports for the supply of various process liquids, such as deposition solutions, DI water for rinsing, etc., and a port for the supply of a gas under pressure. The apparatus is also provided with reservoirs and tanks for processing liquids and gases, as well as with a solution heater and a control system for controlling temperature and pressure in the chamber. The heater can be located outside the working chamber or built into the substrate holder, or both heaters can be used simultaneously. Uniform deposition is achieved by carrying out the deposition process under pressure and under temperature slightly below the boiling point of the solution. The solution can be supplied from above via a shower head formed in the cover, or through the bottom of the chamber. Rinsing or other auxiliary solutions are supplied via a radially moveable chemical dispensing arm that can be arranged above the substrate parallel thereto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for electroless deposition of a material from a deposition solution in the form of a thin film onto a substrate, comprising: a substrate holder in a sealable working chamber, wherein said substrate holder having a substrate grip mechanism rotatingly and slidingly installed inside said substrate holder, and wherein said sealable working chamber comprises: a removable cover with a tapered edge; and a cup-shaped cover support which is open upward and rigidly attached to a bottom portion of said sealable working chamber, said cup-shaped cover support having a tapered edge engageable with said tapered edge of said removable cover forming a closed space about said substrate holder; first solution supply means for supplying at least one deposition solution into said sealable working chamber, said deposition solution having a predetermined boiling point at a predetermined working pressure; auxiliary solution feeding means; rinsing medium feeding means; a dispensing arm moveable between a position outside said sealable working chamber and a position located in said closed space arranged above and parallel to said substrate in said substrate holder; value means for selectively connecting said dispensing arm with said auxiliary solution feeding means and rinsing medium feeding means; rotating means for rotating said substrate holder in said sealable working chamber around an axis of rotation; moving means for moving said substrate grip mechanism in a direction of said axis of rotation; heating means for heating said deposition solution in order to maintain said deposition solution in a heated state in at least said sealable working chamber; temperature control means for controlling a working temperature of said deposition solution; pressure means for changing a working pressure inside said sealable working chamber; and a pressure control means for maintaining said working pressure inside said sealable working chamber at a value that maintains said deposition solution at a temperature below said predetermined boiling point. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said heating means maintains said working temperature at a level from 0 to 25% below said predetermined boiling point. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a deposition solution tank that contains said deposition solution, said first solution supply means comprising: a shower-head manifold located on said inner side of said removable cover and having a plurality of outlet openings; and a pump for the supply of said deposition solution from said deposition solution tank to said shower-head manifold. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said rotating means comprises: a hollow shaft rigidly connected to said substrate holder and sealingly projecting outside said sealable working chamber; and driver means for rotating said hollow shaft. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said moving means comprises: a shaft slidingly and sealingly inserted into said sealable working chamber through said rotating means and having one end rigidly connected to said substrate grip mechanism and the other end projecting outside said sealable working chamber; and a linear drive means connected to said shaft. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second solution supply means for the supply of said deposition solution into said sealable working chamber through said bottom. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said heating means comprises a first heater located outside said sealable working chamber in said first solution supply means. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said heating means is further provided with a second heater located inside said sealable working chamber and built-in into said substrate holder. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said heating means comprises a heater located inside said sealable working chamber and built-in into said substrate holder. 10. An apparatus for electroless deposition, comprising: a sealable working chamber comprising: a substrate holder; a removable cover; and a cup-shaped support which is open upward and arranged beneath the substrate holder, wherein the removable cover is engageable with the cup-shaped support to form a closed space about the substrate holder; a dispensing arm moveable between a position outside the sealable working chamber and a position located in the closed space; a first deposition solution supply line for supplying at least one deposition solution into the sealable working chamber; temperature control unit for maintaining a working temperature range of the deposition solution within the sealable working chamber; and pressure control unit for maintaining a working pressure range inside the sealable working chamber. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a multi-way valve for selectively connecting the dispensing arm to an auxiliary solution supply line and a rinsing solution supply line of the apparatus. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the dispenser arm is configured to be positioned over different areas of the substrate holder. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a second deposition solution supply line for supplying the at least one deposition solution into the sealable working chamber, wherein the second deposition supply line is configured to deliver the at least one deposition solution from the bottom of the sealable working chamber onto a surface of the substrate holder. 14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the removable cover comprises an inner surface tapered downward. 15. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the removable cover comprises an inner surface tapered upward. 