An effective technique for the high throughput screening of displacers is described. In this technique, potential displacers are employed to displace a biomolecule (e.g., protein) adsorbed on a chromatographic resin in small-scale batch displacement experiments. The amount of protein displaced from a specific resin by a defined concentration of displacer is determined by monitoring the supermatant for the protein. By evaluating the displaced protein rather than the displacer itself, this technique enables a single detection technique (e.g., absorbance, fluorescence, etc.) to be employed for all batch displacement experiments. By monitoring the amount of protein displaced, the effacy of a large number of potential displacers can be rapidly evaluated. The entire experimental procedure can be carried out rapidly and is thus amenable to high throughput parallel screening of molecules possessing a large range of affinities and physico-chemical properties. The error of the technique is within 5% of protein displaced, thus making it a very reliable technique. The technique can be extended to different stationary phase materials, biomolecules, and modes of interaction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for extra-column, high throughput, parallel screening of a plurality of displacer candidates for efficacy in separating a bioproduct from one or more impurities by means of a displacement chromatography system comprising a mobile phase solvent and a stationary phase resin, said method comprising: determining the equilibrium concentration of the bioproduct in at least one first extra-column batch consisting of the bioproduct, the mobile phase solvent, the stationary phase resin, and, optionally, the one or more impurities; determining the equilibrium concentration of the bioproduct in the mobile phase solvent in a plurality of second extra-column, high throughput, parallel screening batches, each comprising a displacer candidate, the bioproduct, the mobile phase solvent, and the stationary phase resin; wherein the amount of the bioproduct displaced from the stationary phase resin in each of the plurality of second batches, relative to the total amount of the bioproduct bound in the first batch, is an indicator of the efficacy of the displacer contained therein. 2. A method of screening a plurality of displacer candidates according to claim 1, wherein determining the equilibrium concentration of the bioproduct in the first extra-column batch comprises: equilibrating known amounts of the bioproduct, the one or more impurities, the mobile phase solvent and the stationary phase resin, and, optionally, the one or more impurities; and performing an analysis of the mobile phase solvent containing the bioproduct; and whereby the equilibrium concentration of the bioproduct in the mobile phase solvent, in the first extra-column batch, is determined. 3. A method of screening a plurality of displacer candidates according to claim 1, wherein determining the equilibrium concentration of the bioproduct in the mobile phase solvent in the plurality of second batches comprises: equilibrating a known amount of each displacer candidate, and known amounts of the bioproduct, the one or more impurities, the mobile phase solvent, the stationary phase resin; and performing an analysis of the mobile phase solvent containing the bioproduct; and whereby the equilibrium concentration of the bioproduct in the mobile phase solvent, is determined. 4. A method of screening a plurality of displacer candidates according to claim 1, wherein the amount of the bioproduct displaced from the stationary phase resin is determined by finding a difference between an equilibrium amount of bioproduct adsorbed on the stationary phase resin in the presence and in the absence of the displacer candidate. 5. A method of screening a plurality of displacer candidates according to claim 1, wherein the stationary phase resin is an ion exchange resin. 6. A method of screening a plurality of displacer candidates according to claim 1, additionally comprising: determining the equilibrium concentration of the one or more impurities in the mobile phase solvent, in the presence of the stationary phase resin; for each of the displacer candidates, determining the equilibrium concentration of the one or more impurities in the mobile phase solvent, in the presence of both the stationary phase resin and the displacer candidate; for each of the displacer candidates, determining an amount of the one or more impurities displaced from the stationary phase resin; and rating each displacer candidate according to a relative amount of the bioproduct displaced relative to the amount of the one or more impurities displaced from the stationary phase resin. 7. A method for high throughput, parallel extra-column screening of a plurality of displacer candidates for efficacy in separating a bioproduct from one or more impurities by means of a displacement chromatography system comprising a mobile phase solvent and a stationary phase resin, said method comprising: determining the equilibrium amount of the bioproduct adsorbed on the stationary phase resin in a first extra-column batch consisting of a known amount of the bioproduct, the mobile phase solvent, a known amount of the stationary phase resin, and, optionally; the one or more impurities; determining the equilibrium amount of the bioproduct adsorbed on the stationary phase resin in each of a plurality of second extra-column high throughput, parallel screening batches comprising a known amount of a displacer candidate, a known amount of the bioproduct, the mobile phase solvent, and a known amount of the stationary resin; calculating the amount of the bioproduct displaced from the stationary phase resin in each of the plurality of second batches; wherein the amount of the bioproduct displaced from the stationary phase resin in each of the plurality of second batches, relative to the total amount of the bioproduct in each batch, is an indicator of the efficacy of the displacer contained therein. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the equilibrium amount of the bioproduct adsorbed on the stationary phase in the first extra-column batch comprises: equilibrating known amounts of the bioproduct, the one or more impurities, the mobile phase solvent and the stationary phase resin; performing an analysis of the mobile phase solvent containing the bioproduct; and calculating the equilibrium amount of the bioproduct adsorbed on the stationary phase resin. 9. A method according to claim 7, wherein determining the equilibrium amount of the bioproduct adsorbed on the stationary phase in each of the plurality of second extra-column high throughput, parallel screening batches comprises: equilibrating a known amount of each displacer candidate with known amounts of the bioproduct, the one or more impurities, the mobile phase solvent, the stationary phase resin; performing an analysis of the mobile phase solvent containing the bioproduct; and calculating the equilibrium amount of the bioproduct adsorbed on the stationary phase resin. 10. A method according to claim 7, wherein the amount of the bioproduct displaced from the stationary phase resin in each of the plurality of second batches is determined by calculating the difference between the equilibrium amount of bioproduct adsorbed on the stationary phase resin in the presence and in the absence of the displacer candidate. 11. A method according to claim 7, wherein the stationary phase resin is an ion exchange resin. 12. A method according to claim 7, additionally comprising: determining the equilibrium amount of the one or more impurities adsorbed on the stationary phase resin in each of the plurality of second extra-column high throughput, parallel screening batches; calculating the amount of the one or more impurities displaced from the stationary phase resin in each of the plurality of second batches. 