A cleaning apparatus includes a housing to be moved along a surface to be cleaned. Within the housing, a cleaning ribbon is disposed between a supply reel and a take-up reel. A portion of the cleaning ribbon is held parallel to, and in substantial contact with, the surface to be cleaned, for attracting and retaining smaller debris. Another portion of the cleaning ribbon is configured to create a particle trap. A rotatable brush, also disposed within the housing, sweeps larger debris into the particle trap. The supply reel, the take-up reel, the cleaning ribbon, and/or the rotatable brush are alternatively included in a cartridge which is detachably secured within the housing.
Claims I claim: 1. A cleaning apparatus, comprising: a housing; a supply reel secured within the housing; a take-up reel secured within the housing; a cleaning ribbon extending from the supply reel to the take-up reel, the cleaning ribbon being configured to form a particle trap; and a rotatable brush secured within the housing, wherein the rotatable brush is disposed on a forward side of the particle trap, and sweeps debris into the particle trap upon rotation of the rotatable brush. 2. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a handle attached to the housing for manually moving the housing along a surface to be cleaned. 3. A cleaning apparatus, comprising: a housing; and a cartridge detachably secured within the housing, the cartridge including: a supply reel; a take-up reel; a cleaning ribbon extending from the supply reel to the take-up reel, the cleaning ribbon being configured to form a particle trap and having a cleaning surface substantially parallel to a surface to be cleaned; and a rotatable brush disposed on a forward side of the cleaning surface, wherein the rotatable brush sweeps particles into the particle trap upon rotation of the rotatable brush. 4. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the housing includes a panel that is removable for providing access to the cartridge. 5. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the cleaning ribbon is comprised of an electret material that electrostatically attracts and retains particles. 6. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the cleaning ribbon is comprised of an adhesive material. 7. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the cleaning ribbon is saturated with a cleaning agent. 8. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the cleaning ribbon is a textured cloth. 9. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the cleaning ribbon comprises a combination of at least two of an electret material, an adhesive material, a material saturated with a cleaning agent, and a textured cloth. 10. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the cleaning ribbon is in a folded state on the supply reel to reduce its width on the supply reel. 11. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the width of the supply reel is less than the width of the cleaning ribbon in an unfolded state. 12. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the cleaning ribbon is folded before being collected by the take-up reel to reduce its width on the take-up reel. 13. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the width of the take-up reel is less than the width of the cleaning ribbon in an unfolded state. 14. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the cleaning ribbon is in a folded state on the supply reel to reduce its width on the supply reel and the cleaning ribbon is folded before being collected by the take-up reel to reduce its width on the take-up reel. 15. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the supply and take-up reels are mechanically driven. 16. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the supply and take-up reels are driven at a rate different than the rate at which the housing is advanced along the surface to be cleaned. 17. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the rotatable brush comprises a plurality of bristles. 18. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the rotatable brush comprises a plurality of flexible blades. 19. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the rotatable brush is mechanically driven. 20. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the rotatable brush is always driven in the same rotational direction, regardless of the direction of travel of the housing. 21. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 19, further comprising a plurality of rotatable wheels for advancing the housing along the surface to be cleaned, wherein the rotatable brush has a common axis with at least one of the plurality of rotatable wheels. 22. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the rotatable brush is driven at a rate different than the rate at which the housing is advanced along the surface to be cleaned. 23. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 22, further comprising a plurality of wheels for advancing the housing along the surface to be cleaned and a belt and pulley system for rotating the rotatable brush, wherein the belt and pulley system utilizes the rotation of at least one of the plurality of wheels to rotate the rotatable brush. 24. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 22, further comprising a plurality of wheels for advancing the housing along the surface to be cleaned and a plurality of gears for rotating the rotatable brush, wherein the plurality of gears utilizes the rotation of at least one of the plurality of wheels to rotate the rotatable brush. 25. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising a vacuum unit for supplying a suction within the housing. 26. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the suction within the housing removes particles from the particle trap. 27. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the suction within the housing is applied to the portion of the cleaning ribbon that creates the cleaning surface on a side of the cleaning ribbon opposite the surface to be cleaned. 28. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the suction within the housing is applied to a side of the portion of the cleaning ribbon forming the particle trap, opposite a side on which particles are collected. 29. A cleaning apparatus, comprising: a housing; means for advancing the housing along a surface to be cleaned; a supply reel secured within the housing for dispensing a supply of cleaning ribbon; a take-up reel secured within the housing for collecting spent cleaning ribbon; means within the housing for keeping a portion of the cleaning ribbon which extends between the supply reel and the take-up reel substantially parallel to the surface to be cleaned; means within the housing for trapping debris; and means secured within the housing for sweeping debris into the debris trapping means. 30. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the advancing means comprises a handle attached to the housing. 31. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the advancing means is self-propelled. 32. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the advancing means is autonomous. 33. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the take-up reel collects the cleaning ribbon so that a side of the cleaning ribbon that was in substantial contact with the surface to be cleaned faces the take-up reel. 34. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the means for keeping the portion of the cleaning ribbon which extends between the supply reel and the take-up reel parallel to the surface to be cleaned comprises a guiding system. 35. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 34, wherein the guiding system prevents the cleaning ribbon from moving laterally relative to the housing. 36. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 34, wherein the guiding system comprises a platen. 37. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 36, further comprising means for movably mounting the platen with respect to the housing. 38. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the means for movably mounting the platen with respect to the housing comprises a linkage device. 39. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 37, further comprising a manual lever for operating the linkage device. 40. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the means for movably mounting the platen with respect to the housing comprises a motor. 41. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 37, further comprising sensing means for sensing that the platen must be moved with respect to the housing. 42. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 34, wherein the guiding system comprises a plurality of rollers. 43. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 36, wherein the guiding system configures the cleaning ribbon such as to wrap the cleaning ribbon over a forward portion of the platen, thereby directing the ribbon rearwardly over the portion of the cleaning ribbon which extends between the supply reel and the take-up reel parallel to the surface to be cleaned. 44. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 43, wherein the forward portion of the platen comprises an angled member. 45. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the means for sweeping debris into the debris trapping means comprises a rotatable brush disposed on the forward side of the debris trapping means. 46. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the means for sweeping debris into the debris trapping means is comprised of a plurality of rotatable brushes disposed on the forward side of the debris trapping means. 47. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 29, further comprising a mechanical drive system for advancing the cleaning ribbon. 48. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 47, wherein the mechanical drive system comprises a ribbon advancing reel coupled directly to the take-up reel. 49. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 47, wherein the mechanical drive system comprises a foot-pedal operated ratchet mechanism. 50. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 47, wherein the mechanical drive system controls the rate of advancement of the cleaning ribbon relative to the rate at which the housing is advanced along the surface to be cleaned. 51. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 50, further comprising a plurality of wheels for advancing the housing along the surface to be cleaned, wherein the mechanical drive system comprises a belt and pulley system which utilizes the rotation of at least one of the plurality of wheels to advance the take-up reel. 52. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 50, further comprising a plurality of wheels for advancing the housing along the surface to be cleaned, wherein the mechanical drive system comprises a plurality of gears which utilizes the rotation of at least one of the plurality of wheels to advance the take-up reel. 53. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 29, further comprising a motor for advancing the take-up reel. 54. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 29, further comprising a vacuum unit for supplying a suction within the housing. 55. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 54, wherein the suction within the housing removes debris from the means for trapping debris. 56. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 54, wherein the suction within the housing is applied to the portion of the cleaning ribbon which extends between the supply reel and the take-up reel and substantially parallel to the surface to be cleaned on a side of the cleaning ribbon opposite the surface to be cleaned. 57. The cleaning apparatus according to claim 54, wherein the suction within the housing is applied to a side of the means for trapping debris opposite a side that collects debris. 58. A cartridge for detachable securement within a cleaning apparatus, the cartridge comprising: a supply reel; a take-up reel; a cleaning ribbon extending between the supply reel and the take-up reel, the cleaning ribbon being configured so as to form a particle trap; means for sweeping debris into the particle trap; and means for detachably securing the cartridge to the cleaning apparatus. 59. The cartridge according to claim 58, wherein the sweeping means comprises a rotatable brush. 60. The cartridge according to claim 58, wherein the sweeping means comprises a plurality of rotating brushes. 61. The cartridge according to claim 58, wherein the securing means consists of at least one aperture within the cartridge for mating with at least one protrusion within the cleaning apparatus. 62. The cartridge according to claim 61, wherein the at least one aperture rotates freely about the at least one protrusion. 63. The cartridge according to claim 61, wherein the at least one aperture rotates in unison with the at least one protrusion. 64. The cartridge according to claim 58, wherein a portion of the cleaning ribbon positioned between the supply reel and the take-up reel is wider than the supply reel. 65. The cartridge according to claim 58, wherein a portion of the cleaning ribbon positioned between the supply reel and the take-up reel is wider than the take-up reel. 66. A cartridge for detachable securement within a cleaning apparatus, that includes a housing and a rotatable brush the cartridge comprising: a supply reel; a take-up reel; a cleaning ribbon for being fed along a path between the supply reel and the take-up reel, a length of the cleaning ribbon positioned between the supply reel and the take-up reel being disposed for cleaning a surface to be cleaned when in use, and the cleaning ribbon being configured to form a particle trap along the path of the cleaning ribbon downstream of the length of the cleaning ribbon for cleaning the surface to be cleaned and upstream of the take-up reel, before the cleaning ribbon is collected by the take-up reel; and means for detachably securing the cartridge to the cleaning apparatus, wherein, when the cartridge is mounted in the cleaning apparatus and the cleaning apparatus is in use, the particle trap receives debris swept by the rotatable brush. 67. The cartridge according to claim 66, wherein the securing means comprises at least one aperture within the cartridge for mating with at least one protrusion within the cleaning apparatus. 68. The cartridge according to claim 67, wherein the at least one aperture rotates freely about the at least one protrusion. 69. The cartridge according to claim 67, wherein the at least one aperture rotates in unison with the at least one protrusion. 70. The cartridge according to claim 66, wherein a portion of the cleaning ribbon positioned between the supply reel and the take-up reel is wider than the supply reel. 71. The cartridge according to claim 66, wherein a portion of the cleaning ribbon positioned between the supply reel and the take-up reel is wider than the take-up reel. 72. The cartridge according to claim 66, wherein the cleaning ribbon is in a folded state on at least one of the supply reel and the take-up reel. 73. The cartridge according to claim 66, wherein the particle trap includes a depression between the portion of the cleaning ribbon for cleaning the surface to be cleaned and the take-up reel. 