The temperature of a flowing material, such as coating and filling materials, is regulated by having it pass through a metal block that is cooled or heated by adjacent thermoelectric elements. A temperature regulator uses, as inputs, a desired material temperature (T.sub.-- ref) as well as one or more of a set of temperature signals including temperature signals measured at the inlet and outlet to the block, and internally within a cooling arrangement adjacent to the block. The temperature of the material downstream from the regulator, that is, the temperature to be regulated, is either measured directly or is estimated as a function of the other measured and input signals.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An arrangement for regulating the temperature of a flowing material comprising: a supply arrangement delivering the material under pressure; a temperature regulator receiving the material under pressure from the supply arrangement; a dispensing device that receives the flowing material from the temperature regulator and dispenses the flowing material; in which: the temperature regulator comprises: a thermally conductive metal block that has a material inlet and a material outlet; at least one flow channel extending in a direction of flow through the metal block between the material inlet and the material outlet, the material flowing through the at least one flow channel; electrically controllable thermoelectric elements adjacent to and in thermal contact with the metal block; at least one temperature sensor generating a measured temperature signal; an element controller electrically connected with the thermoelectric elements and having, as input signals, at least a desired temperature signal (T.sub.-- ref) and the at least one measured temperature signal, the element controller regulating the electrical state of the thermoelectric elements by generating a temperature control signal (T.sub.-- c) as a function of the input signals to cause the thermoelectric elements to thermally influence the material flowing through the metal block. 2. An arrangement as in claim 1, in which the thermoelectric elements are Peltier elements. 3. An arrangement as in claim 1, further comprising a cooling arrangement for cooling the thermoelectric elements. 4. An arrangement as in claim 3, further comprising: an internal temperature sensor generating an internal temperature signal (T3) corresponding to the temperature of the cooling arrangement at a point adjacent to the thermoelectric elements, the internal temperature signal (T3) forming an additional one of the input signals to the element controller. 5. An arrangement as in claim 1, further comprising circuitry for generating the desired temperature signal (T.sub.-- ref selectively as either an input set-point temperature signal (T.sub.-- set) or as a function of a temperature error signal (T4.sub.-- e) corresponding to the difference in temperature between the set-point temperature signal (T.sub.-- set) and a downstream material temperature value. 6. An arrangement as in claim 5, further comprising: a downstream temperature sensor generating a measured downstream temperature signal (T4) corresponding to the temperature of the flowing material after it exits the metal block, the downstream temperature signal (T4) forming an additional one of the input signals to the element controller; in which the measured downstream temperature signal is the downstream material temperature value. 7. An arrangement as in claim 5, further comprising: a cooling arrangement for cooling the thermoelectric elements; an inlet temperature sensor generating an inlet temperature signal (T1) corresponding to the temperature of the metal block adjacent to the material inlet; an outlet temperature sensor generating an outlet temperature signal (T2) corresponding to the temperature of the metal block adjacent to the material outlet; an internal temperature sensor generating an internal temperature signal (T3) corresponding to the temperature of the cooling arrangement at a point adjacent to the thermoelectric elements; the inlet, internal and outlet temperature signals (T1, T3, T2) forming additional ones of the input signals to the element controller; and an estimator generating an estimated downstream material temperature signal (T4.sub.-- est), the estimated downstream temperature signal forming the downstream material temperature value. 8. An arrangement as in claim 7, in which the estimator is provided for forming the estimated downstream temperature signal (T4.sub.-- est) as a weighted linear combination of the inlet, internal, outlet, and control signal temperature signals (T1, T3, T2, T.sub.-- c). 9. An arrangement as in claim 5, in which the circuitry for generating the desired temperature signal (T.sub.-- ref) includes an integrator selectively integrating the temperature error signal. 10. An arrangement as in claim 9, further comprising: an inlet temperature sensor generating an inlet temperature signal (T1) corresponding to the temperature of the metal block adjacent to the material inlet; an outlet temperature sensor generating an inlet temperature signal (T2) corresponding to the temperature of the metal block adjacent to the material outlet; and a summing element having, as an output, a difference signal (T.sub.-- diff) corresponding to the difference between forming the difference between the inlet temperature signal (T1) and the outlet temperature signal (T2), the difference signal (T.sub.-- diff) forming an input to the integrator such that the integrator is enabled only when the difference signal (T.sub.-- diff) is at least as great as a threshold value. 11. An arrangement as in claim 10, further comprising: selection circuitry within the element controller for selecting as the temperature reference signal (T.sub.-- ref) either the input set-point temperature signal (T.sub.-- set) or the output signal from the integrator combined with the internal error signal (T4.sub.-- e). 12. An arrangement as in claim 1, further comprising: an inlet temperature sensor generating an inlet temperature signal (T1) corresponding to the temperature of the metal block adjacent to the material inlet; an outlet temperature sensor generating an outlet temperature signal (T2) corresponding to the temperature of the metal block adjacent to the material outlet; circuitry for generating an averaged temperature error signal (T.sub.-- avg.sub.-- e) as a function of the difference between the desired temperature signal (T.sub.-- ref) and a function of the inlet and outlet temperature signals (T1, T2); an integrator having, as its input, the averaged temperature error signal (T.sub.-- avg.sub.-- e) and outputting a signal corresponding to the control signal temperature signal (T.sub.-- c). 13. An arrangement as in claim 12, in which the function of the inlet and outlet temperature signals (T1, T2) is a weighted average. 14. An arrangement as in claim 12, selection circuitry within the element controller for selecting as an unconditioned temperature control signal either the input set-point temperature signal (T.sub.-- set) or the output signal from the integrator. 15. An arrangement as in claim 14, further comprising an output stage circuit conditioning the unconditioned temperature control to generate the temperature control signal (T.sub.-- c). 16. An arrangement as in claim 1, further comprising: a cooling arrangement for cooling the thermoelectric elements; an inlet temperature sensor generating an inlet temperature signal (T1) corresponding to the temperature of the metal block adjacent to the material inlet; an outlet temperature sensor generating an inlet temperature signal (T2) corresponding to the temperature of the metal block adjacent to the material outlet; an internal temperature sensor generating an internal temperature signal (T3) corresponding to the temperature of the cooling arrangement at a point adjacent to the thermoelectric elements; the inlet, internal and outlet temperature signals (T1, T3, T2) forming additional ones of the input signals to the element controller. 17. An arrangement as in claim 1, further comprising a dosing unit causing a flow of the material to the dispensing device in accordance with a pressure reference signal; in which the dosing device is located in the path of flow of the material between the temperature regulator and the dispensing device. 18. An arrangement for regulating the temperature of a flowing material comprising: a supply arrangement delivering the material under pressure; a temperature regulator receiving the material under pressure from the supply arrangement; a dispensing device that receives the flowing material from the temperature regulator and dispenses the flowing material; in which: the temperature regulator comprises: a thermally conductive metal block that has a material inlet and a material outlet; at least one flow channel extending in a direction of flow through the metal block between the material inlet and the material outlet, the material flowing through the at least one flow channel; electrically controllable thermoelectric elements adjacent to and in thermal contact with the metal block; a cooling arrangement for cooling the thermoelectric elements; at least one temperature sensor generating a measured temperature signal; an element controller electrically connected with the thermoelectric elements and having, as input signals, at least a desired temperature signal (T.sub.-- ref) and the at least one measured temperature signal, the element controller regulating the electrical state of the thermoelectric elements by generating a temperature control signal (T.sub.-- c) as a function of the input signals to cause the thermoelectric elements to thermally influence the material flowing through the metal block; an inlet temperature sensor generating an inlet temperature signal (T1) corresponding to the temperature of the metal block adjacent to the material inlet; an outlet temperature sensor generating an inlet temperature signal (T2) corresponding to the temperature of the metal block adjacent to the material outlet; an internal temperature sensor generating an internal temperature signal (T3) corresponding to the temperature of the cooling arrangement at a point adjacent to the thermoelectric elements; the inlet, internal and outlet temperature signals (T1, T3, T2) forming additional ones of the input signals to the element controller; and circuitry for generating the desired temperature signal (T.sub.-- ref) selectively as either an input set-point temperature signal (T.sub.-- set) or as a function of a temperature error signal (T4.sub.-- e) corresponding to the difference in temperature between the set-point temperature signal (T.sub.-- set) and a downstream material temperature value; circuitry for generating an averaged temperature error signal (T.sub.-- avg.sub.-- e) as a function of the difference between the desired temperature signal (T.sub.-- ref) and a function of the inlet and outlet temperature signals (T1, T2); an integrator having, as its input, the averaged temperature error signal (T.sub.-- avg.sub.-- e) and outputting a signal corresponding to the control signal temperature signal (T.sub.-- c); selection circuitry within the element controller for selecting as an unconditioned temperature control signal either the input set-point temperature signal (T.sub.-- set) or the output signal from the integrator; and an output stage circuit conditioning the unconditioned temperature control to generate the temperature control signal (T.sub.-- c). 19. An arrangement as in claim 18, further comprising: a downstream temperature sensor generating a measured downstream temperature signal (T4) corresponding to the temperature of the flowing material after it exits the metal block, the downstream temperature signal (T4) forming an additional one of the input signals to the element controller; in which the measured downstream temperature signal is the downstream material temperature value. 20. An arrangement as in claim 18, further comprising an estimator generating an estimated downstream material temperature signal (T4.sub.-- est), the estimated downstream temperature signal forming the downstream material temperature value. 