An apparatus and method for mixing a solvent with a solute to form a solution, and for separating said solution from excess solute so that a sample of solution less excess solute can be obtained, and for synthesizing drug compounds.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device comprising: a body comprising a mix chamber and a storage chamber, said mix chamber having an open top, and at least one through hole disposed in the bottom portion of said mix chamber, said storage chamber having an open top, and at least one through hole disposed in the bottom portion of said storage chamber, a filter means disposed between said mix chamber and said storage chamber, with one side of said filter means in fluid flow communication with said at least one through hole disposed in the bottom portion of said mix chamber, and with the other side of said filter means in fluid flow communication with said at least one through hole disposed in the bottom portion of said storage chamber, a first port in fluid flow communication with said mix chamber, a second port in fluid flow communication with said storage chamber, an impenetrable mix cap releasably attached to the open top of said mix chamber, said mix cap containing a sealing means capable of sealing said open top of said mix chamber when said mix cap is attached to the top of said mix chamber, a storage cap attached to the open top of said storage chamber, said storage cap containing a sealing means capable of sealing said open top of said storage chamber when said storage cap is attached to the top of said storage chamber. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said mix chamber and said storage chamber are substantially cylindrical in shape. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein the orientation of the central axis of said mix chamber and the orientation of the central axis of said storage chamber are substantially vertical. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein the bottom portion of said mix chamber and the bottom portion of said storage chamber are attached to a lower portion of said body, with the at least one through hole of the mix chamber passing through said lower portion, and with the at least one through hole of the storage chamber passing through said lower portion. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein said filter means is sealed to said lower portion of said body, with the at least one through hole of said mix chamber located within the inner periphery of said filter seal, thereby placing the top surface of the filter means facing the mix chamber in fluid flow communication with said mix chamber through the at least one through hole of the mix chamber, and with the at least one through hole of said storage chamber located outside of the outer periphery of said filter seal. 6. The device of claim 5 wherein said filter means is multi-layered, with the most open pore size filter layer in fluid flow communication with said mix chamber, and with each succeeding filter layer having a smaller pore size than the layer preceding it, with the tightest pore size filter layer in fluid flow communication with said storage chamber. 7. The device of claim 6 wherein a bottom cover is attached to the bottom of said lower portion of said body, said bottom cover providing a means to place the bottom surface of said filter means in fluid flow communication with the storage chamber through the at least one through hole of said storage chamber. 8. The device of claim 7 wherein said first port is in fluid flow communication with a mix gas tube, and wherein said second port is in fluid flow communication with a storage gas tube. 9. The device of claim 8 wherein a first gas plug is inserted into the interior of said mix gas tube, with the interior dimensions and shape of a cross-section through a plane normal to the central axis of the mix gas tube being substantially equal to the corresponding exterior dimensions and shape of a cross-section of the first gas plug, said first gas plug having a channel in an outside wall for creating a flow path from one end of the first gas plug to its other end, with the cross-sectional area of said channel smaller than the cross-sectional area of the interior of said mix gas tube, and wherein a second gas plug is inserted into the interior of said storage gas tube, with the interior dimensions and shape of a cross-section through a plane normal to the central axis of the storage gas tube being substantially equal to the corresponding exterior dimensions and shape of a cross-section of the second gas plug, said second gas plug having a channel in an outside wall for creating a flow path from one end of the second gas plug to its other end, with the cross-sectional area of said channel smaller than the cross-sectional area of the interior of said storage gas tube. 10. The device of claim 9 wherein the top of said storage cap contains one or more openings and wherein a storage septum is sealed between the inside top wall of said storage cap and the top of said storage chamber, thereby sealing the top of said storage chamber while allowing a needle to be inserted into said storage chamber without removing said storage cap. 11. The device of claim 1 wherein said mix chamber contains a follower magnet. 12. The device of claim 11 wherein said device is disposable. 13. A device for mixing a solvent with a solute to form a solution, and separating said solution from excess solute so that a sample of solution less excess solute can be obtained, said device comprising: a body comprising a mix chamber and a storage chamber, said mix chamber having an open top, and at least one through hole disposed in the bottom portion of said mix chamber, said storage chamber having an open top, and at least one through hole disposed in the bottom portion of said storage chamber, a filter means disposed between said mix chamber and said storage chamber, with one side of said filter means in fluid flow communication with said at least one through hole disposed in the bottom portion of said mix chamber, and with the other side of said filter means in fluid flow communication with said at least one through hole disposed in the bottom portion of said storage chamber, said filter means capable of retaining undissolved solute, a first port in fluid flow communication with said mix chamber, a second port in fluid flow communication with said storage chamber, an impenetrable mix cap releasably attached to the open top of said mix chamber, said mix cap containing a sealing means capable of sealing said open top of said mix chamber when said mix cap is attached to the top of said mix chamber, a storage cap attached to the open top of said storage chamber, said storage cap containing a sealing means capable of sealing said open top of said storage chamber when said storage cap is attached to the top of said storage chamber, a mixing means for mixing a solute with a solvent to form a solution with excess solute in said mix chamber, a means to apply a pressurized gas to said first port and vent said second port, thereby forcing said solution less excess solute from said mix chamber, through said filter means, into said storage chamber, a means to apply a pressurized gas to said second port and vent said first port, thereby forcing said solution less excess solute from said storage chamber, through said filter means, into said mix chamber. 14. The device of claim 13 wherein said mixing means is a rotating follower magnet in said mix chamber driven by an external rotating magnetic field, said follower magnet rotating about an axis that is perpendicular to the central axis of the follower magnet, and parallel to the rotational axis of the external rotating magnetic field. 15. The device of claim 13 wherein said mixing means is a vortex stirring mechanism onto which said device is mounted, said vortex stirring mechanism moving said device in an orbital motion, thereby mixing solvent with solute in said mix chamber to form a solution, and further mixing solution less excess solute in said storage chamber. 16. The device of claim 13 wherein said mixing means is the alternate forcing, for a predetermined time interval, of said solution less excess solute from said mix chamber, through said filter means, into said storage chamber, by pressurizing said mix chamber and venting said storage chamber, and then the forcing of said solution less excess solute, from said storage chamber, through said filter means, back to said mix chamber by pressurizing said storage chamber and venting said mix chamber. 17. The device of claim 13 wherein at least the lower portion of said mix chamber, and the lower portion of said storage chamber are immersed in a temperature controlled liquid, thereby controlling the temperature of the contents of said mix chamber and the contents of said storage chamber. 18. The device of claim 13 wherein said storage cap contains at least one opening, and wherein said storage cap sealing means is a septum, thereby allowing a needle to penetrate said septum through said at least one opening. 19. A method for mixing a solvent with a solute to form a solution and for separating said solution from excess solute to obtain a sample of said solution less excess solute comprising the steps of: providing a device comprising: a body comprising a mix chamber and a storage chamber, said mix chamber having an open top, and at least one through hole disposed in the bottom portion of said mix chamber, said storage chamber having an open top, and at least one through hole disposed in the bottom portion of said storage chamber, a filter means disposed between said mix chamber and said storage chamber, with one side of said filter means in fluid flow communication with said at least one through hole disposed in the bottom portion of said mix chamber, and with the other side of said filter means in fluid flow communication with said at least one through hole disposed in the bottom portion of said storage chamber, said filter means capable of retaining undissolved excess solute, a first port in fluid flow communication with said mix chamber, a second port in fluid flow communication with said storage chamber, an impenetrable mix cap releasably attached to the open top of said mix chamber, said mix cap containing a sealing means capable of sealing said open top of said mix chamber when said mix cap is attached to the top of said mix chamber, a storage cap attached to the open top of said storage chamber, said storage cap containing a sealing means capable of sealing said open top of said storage chamber when said storage cap is attached to the top of said storage chamber, a mixing means for mixing a solute with a solvent to form a solution with excess solute in said mix chamber, a means to apply a pressurized gas to said first port and vent said second port, thereby forcing said solution less excess solute from said mix chamber, through said filter means, into said storage chamber, a means to apply a pressurized gas to said second port and vent said first port, thereby forcing said solution less excess solute from said storage chamber, through said filter means, into said mix chamber, removing said mix cap, adding a solute to a said mix chamber, replacing said mix cap, adding a solvent to said storage chamber, applying a pressurized gas to said second port, and venting said first port, thereby pressurizing said storage chamber, and venting said mix chamber, thereby forcing the solvent from said storage chamber through said filter means into said mix chamber, activating said mixing means to mix said solvent with said solute to form a solution with excess solute in said first chamber, applying a pressurized gas to said first port, and venting said second port, thereby pressurizing said mix chamber, and venting said storage chamber, thereby forcing the solution less excess solute from said mix chamber through said filter means into said storage chamber, said filter means retaining said excess solute in said mix chamber, removing at least a portion of said solution less excess solute from said second chamber for analysis. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said mixing means is a rotating follower magnet in said mix chamber driven by an external rotating magnetic field, said follower magnet rotating about an axis that is perpendicular to the central axis of the follower magnet, and parallel to the rotational axis of the external rotating magnetic field. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein said mixing means is a vortex stirring mechanism onto which said device is mounted, said vortex stirring mechanism moving said device in an orbital motion, thereby mixing solvent with solute in said mix chamber to form a solution, and further mixing solution less excess solute in said storage chamber. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein said mixing means is the alternate forcing, for a predetermined time interval, of said solution less excess solute from said mix chamber, through said filter means, into said storage chamber, by pressurizing said mix chamber and venting said storage chamber, and then the forcing of said solution less excess solute, from said storage chamber, through said filter means, back to said mix chamber by pressurizing said storage chamber and venting said mix chamber. 23. The method of claim 19 wherein said storage cap contains at least one opening in the top of said storage cap, and wherein said storage cap sealing means is a self sealing septum disposed between said storage cap and said open top of said storage chamber. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said solvent is inserted into said storage chamber by; inserting a needle attached to a dispensing means through said at least one opening, through said septum, into said storage chamber, dispensing the solution into said storage chamber, removing said needle from said septum. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein said portion of solution less excess solute is removed from said storage chamber by; inserting a needle attached to an aspirating means through said at least one opening, through said septum, into said storage chamber, aspirating at least a portion of said solution less excess solute from said storage chamber, removing said needle from said septum. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein the aspirated solution less excess solute is tested for a property of said solution. 27. A method for synthesizing drug compounds comprising: providing a device with a first chamber in fluid flow communication with a second chamber, a filter means disposed between and in fluid flow communication with said first and said second chambers, said filter means capable of retaining a resin, and of passing a solution, providing a means to pressurize said first chamber with a pressurized gas, providing a means to pressurize said second chamber with a pressurized gas, providing a means to vent said first chamber, providing a means to vent said second chamber, providing a means to mix a resin with a solution in said second chamber, adding a resin to said second chamber, adding a first solution to said first chamber, pressurizing said first chamber and venting said second chamber thereby forcing said first solution from said first chamber through said filter means into said second chamber, activating said mixing means to mix said resin with said first solution in said second chamber, pressurizing said second chamber and venting said first chamber thereby forcing the first solution from said second chamber through said filter means into said first chamber, removing said first solution from said first chamber, repeating the process of; adding solution to said first chamber, forcing the solution from the first chamber, through the filter means, into the second chamber, mixing the solution with resin in the second chamber, forcing the mixed solution from the second chamber, through the filter means, into the first chamber, removing the mixed solution from the second chamber, until the desired compound is synthesized on said resin, adding a cleavage solution to said first chamber, pressurizing said first chamber and venting said second chamber thereby forcing said cleavage solution from said first chamber through said filter means into said second chamber, mixing said resin with said cleavage solution in said second chamber, thereby separating the synthesized compound from said resin, and dissolving said compound into said cleavage solution, thereby forming a solution containing said compound, pressurizing said second chamber and venting said first chamber thereby forcing said cleavage solution containing said compound from said second chamber through said filter means into said first chamber, removing said cleavage solution containing said compound from said first chamber. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein said mixing means is a rotating follower magnet in said second chamber driven by an external rotating magnetic field, said follower magnet rotating about an axis perpendicular to the central axis of the follower magnet, and parallel to the rotational axis of the external rotating magnetic field. 29. The method of claim 27 wherein said mixing means is a vortex stirring mechanism onto which said device is mounted, said vortex stirring mechanism moving said device in an orbital motion, thereby mixing the resin with solution in said second chamber. 30. The method of claim 27 wherein said mixing means is the alternate forcing, for a predetermined time interval, of the solution from said second chamber, through said filter means, into said first chamber, by pressurizing said second chamber and venting said first chamber, and then forcing the solution, from said first chamber, through said filter means, back to said second chamber by pressurizing said first chamber and venting said second chamber. 31. A method for mixing a solvent with a solute to form a solution and for separating said solution from excess solute to obtain a sample of said solution less excess solute comprising the steps of: providing a device with a first chamber in fluid flow communication with a second chamber, a filter means disposed between and in fluid flow communication with said first and said second chambers, said filter means capable of retaining a solute, and of passing a solution, providing a means to pressurize said first chamber with a pressurized gas, providing a means to pressurize said second chamber with a pressurized gas, providing a means to vent said first chamber, providing a means to vent said second chamber, providing a means to mix a solute with a solvent to form a solution in said second chamber, adding a solute to said second chamber, adding a solvent to said first chamber, pressurizing said first chamber and venting said second chamber thereby forcing said solvent from said first chamber through said filter means into said second chamber, activating said mixing means to mix said solute with said solvent in said second chamber to form a solution with excess solute, after a predetermined time interval, pressurizing said second chamber and venting said first chamber thereby forcing the solution less excess solute from said second chamber, through said filter means into said first chamber, removing at least a portion of said solution less excess solute from said first chamber. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein the remaining solution in said first chamber is forced from said first chamber, through said filter means, into said second chamber, by pressurizing said first chamber and venting said second chamber, mixing said excess solute with said solution in said second chamber, after a second predetermined time interval, pressurizing said second chamber and venting said first chamber thereby forcing the solution less excess solute from said second chamber, through said filter means into said first chamber, removing at least a portion of the remaining solution less excess solute from said first chamber. 33. The method of claim 31 wherein said mixing means is a rotating follower magnet in said second chamber driven by an external rotating magnetic field, said follower magnet rotating about an axis that is perpendicular to the central axis of the follower magnet, and parallel to the rotational axis of the external rotating magnetic field. 34. The method of claim 31 wherein said mixing means is a vortex stirring mechanism onto which said device is mounted, said vortex stirring mechanism moving said device in an orbital motion, thereby mixing the solute with solvent to form a solution in said second chamber. 35. The method of claim 31 wherein said mixing means is the alternate forcing, for a predetermined time interval, of solution from said second chamber, through said filter means, into said first chamber, by venting said first chamber and pressurizing said second chamber, and then the forcing the solution, from said first chamber, through said filter means, back to said second chamber by venting said second chamber and pressurizing said first chamber. 