An apparatus and method for perforating, cutting, or engraving a workpiece using a focused laser system to produce a focused laser. The apparatus includes a workpiece former having a complex shape to which the workpiece substantially conforms. The apparatus also includes a positioner that makes an adjustment to keep the focused laser substantially focused on the workpiece as the positional relationship between the workpiece former and the focused laser system changes to an operating position that changes the distance between the workpiece and the focused laser system due to the complex shape of the workpiece former.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of modifying a thin flexible workpiece that conforms to a workpiece former having a complex shape, the method using a focused laser produced by a focused laser system, the method comprising: changing the positional relationship between the focused laser system and the workpiece former to establish a first operating position where the surface of the workpiece is substantially at the focal length of the focused laser where the focused laser meets the workpiece; changing the positional relationship between the focused laser system and the workpiece former to establish a second operating position that changes the distance between the workpiece and the focused laser system due to the complex shape of the workpiece former; and making an adjustment to keep the focused laser substantially focused on the workpiece at the second operating position. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjustment comprises moving the workpiece former in a direction substantially parallel to an axis about which the focused laser is symmetric. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjustment comprises moving the focused laser system in a direction substantially parallel to an axis about which the focused laser is symmetric. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjustment comprises moving a lens in the focused laser system. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sensing the change in distance between the workpiece and the focused laser system caused by changing the positional relationship between the focused laser system and the workpiece former from the first operating position to the second operating position, wherein the adjustment is made in response to the sensed change in distance. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: referring to data stored in a memory that correlates the change in distance between the workpiece and the focused laser system to motion from the first operating position to the second operating position, wherein the adjustment is made in response to the data stored in the memory. 7. A method of producing a flexible workpiece that conforms to a workpiece former having a complex shape, the method using a focused laser produced by a focused laser system, the method comprising the following steps in order: moving the workpiece former into liquid rubber; removing the workpiece from the liquid rubber and allowing the liquid rubber to dry on the workpiece; changing the positional relationship between the focused laser system and the workpiece former to establish a first operating position where the surface of the workpiece is substantially at the focal length of the focused laser where the laser meets the workpiece; activating the focused laser system; changing the positional relationship between the focused laser system and the workpiece former to establish a second operating position that changes the distance between the workpiece and the focused laser system due to the complex shape of the workpiece former; and making an adjustment to keep the focused laser substantially focused on the workpiece at the second operating position. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: deactivating the focused laser system before establishing the second operating position; and activating the focused laser system after the second operating position is established. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the focused laser system remains activated as the positional relationship between the focused laser system and the workpiece former is changed. 