A method for automatically operating a robot, attached to a lawnmower or other unmanned machine, within an enclosed area is disclosed. The method includes the steps of: 1) providing the following elements: a proximity sensor positioned on the robot, a boundary along the perimeter of the working area and along the perimeter of each area enclosed in the working area in which the robot should not operate, the boundaries being detectable by the proximity sensor, a processing unit connected to the proximity sensor and receiving an input therefrom, a navigation unit on the robot to determine the coordinates of the robot relative to an arbitrary origin, a direction finder, and a memory to store values generated by the processing unit; and 2) causing the robot to move along each of the boundaries provided around or within the working area, to detect the boundaries and to memorize their shape, and to store in the memory values representative of the coordinates of the boundaries, thereby to generate a basic map of the working area. When the robot is to operate within the area, the method includes the steps of: (a) causing the robot to start from a starting point having known coordinates within the basic map of the working area; (b) continuously determining the coordinates of the robot by analyzing data obtained from the navigation unit and by detecting the vicinity of a boundary; and (c) correcting the actual position of the robot on the basic map by comparing the calculated and the actual coordinates of each detected boundary.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous robot comprising: a sensor adapted for detecting at least one boundary indicator; a processor in operative communication with said sensor, said processor programmed to: generate a map of a working area in accordance with at least a substantial traversal of said working area along a path corresponding to the position of said at least one boundary indicator; correct the position of said robot in accordance with said map when said at least one boundary indicator is reached; and control motion of said robot in accordance with said map for said robot to operate in said working area substantially free of repetition; a locator in operative communication with said processor configured for determining the coordinates of said robot relative to an arbitrary origin at any specific time; memory in operative communication with said processor for storing said map generated by said processor; and a drive system in operative communication with said processor for moving said robot. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein said processor is additionally programmed to: activate said robot and cause said robot to move to a position corresponding to at least a portion of a boundary defined by said at least one boundary indicator. 3. The robot of claim 1, additionally comprising: a lawn mowing system. 4. The robot of claim 1, wherein said at least a substantial traversal of said working area includes a complete traversal of said working area. 5. An autonomous robot comprising: a sensor adapted for detecting at least one boundary indicator; a processor in operative communication with said sensor, said processor programmed to: generate a map of a working area in accordance with at least a substantial traversal of said working area along a path corresponding to the position of said at least one boundary indicator; correct the position of said robot in accordance with said map when said at least one boundary indicator is reached; control motion of said robot in accordance with said map for said robot to operate in said working area substantially free of repetition; and determine the location of said robot relative to said map; memory in operative communication with said processor for storing said map; and a drive system in operative communication with said processor for moving said robot. 6. The robot of claim 5, wherein said processor is additionally programmed to: activate said robot and cause said robot to move to a position corresponding to at least a portion of a boundary defined by said at least one boundary indicator. 7. The robot of claim 5, additionally comprising: a locator for detecting the position of said robot, said locator in operative communication with said processor. 8. The robot of claim 5, additionally comprising: a lawn mowing system. 9. The robot of claim 5, wherein said at least a substantial traversal of said working area includes a complete traversal of said working area. 