The base of the modular reactor includes a frame which defines an opening into which one of a plurality of interchangeable reaction vessel carrying inserts can be removeably received. Each insert has an array of recesses adapted to receive a different number of reaction vessels of different sizes. The recesses are positioned such that all arrays are suitable for use with a standard automated liquid handier. The frame has fluid flow channels for regulating the temperature of the lower portions of the vessels. A temperature control module can be received over the base to regulate the temperature of the upper portions of the vessels for reflux reactions. The corner radii of the insert and frame opening cooperate to permit the insert to be received in the frame in only one orientation. The walls of the insert are inclined to facilitate removal by a friction fit tool. Each vessel receiving recess has a self-centering conical or semi-circular shaped bottom to maximize heat transfer and distribute the load uniformly. The vessels seat as close to the bottom surface of the base as possible to facilitate use with an air driven magnetic stirrer. A thin, electrically heated plate may be received between the base and the stirrer.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for performing chemistry reactions in a plurality of open-mouthed, closed-bottomed, reaction vessels in conjunction with a liquid handler of the type having a plurality of individual liquid dispensing means arranged in a pattern, said apparatus comprising a base defining an insert-receiving space, means for sealing the mouths of the reaction vessels, said sealing means being mounted above said base, between the reaction vessels and the liquid dispensing means of the liquid handler, and comprising a sealing plate having a plurality of sealable openings, each of said sealable openings being aligned with a different one of the reaction vessels, such that liquid can be dispensed through said sealing plate into the reaction vessels from the liquid dispensing means of the liquid handler, said insert-receiving space being situated in operative registration with the liquid dispensing means of the liquid handler, and in combination therewith, first and second inserts alternatively insertable into said insert-receiving space in said base, means for causing said first and second inserts to be received into said insert-receiving space in only a single orientation, each of said inserts comprising a plurality of individual reaction vessel-receiving recesses arranged in a different array, each of said reaction vessel-receiving recesses in each of said insert recess arrays being aligned with a different one of the liquid dispensing means of the liquid handler when the insert is received in said insert-receiving space in said base. 2. Apparatus for performing chemistry reactions in a plurality of open-mouthed, closed-bottomed, reaction vessels in conjunction with a liquid handler of the type having a plurality of individual liquid dispensing means arranged in a pattern, said apparatus comprising a base defining a generally rectangular insert-receiving space having four rounded corners, each of said insert-receiving space corners having a radius, means for sealing the mouths of the reaction vessels, said sealing means being mounted above said base, between the reaction vessels and the liquid dispensing means of the liquid handler, and comprising a sealing plate having a plurality of sealable openings, each of said sealable openings being aligned with a different one of the reaction vessels, such that liquid can be dispensed through said sealing plate into the reaction vessels from the liquid dispensing means of the liquid handler, said insert-receiving space being situated in operative registration with the liquid dispensing means of the liquid handler, and in combination therewith, first and second inserts alternatively insertable into said insert-receiving space in said base, each of said first and second inserts having a generally rectangular configuration with two pairs of opposite insert corners, each of said insert corners being rounded and having a radius that substantially corresponds the radius of the corresponding insert-receiving space corner, wherein the radius of at least one of said insert corners in one of said pairs of opposite insert corners is different from the radius of the opposite corner in said pair of opposite insert corners, such that the insert can be received in said insert-receiving space in said base in only a single orientation, each of said inserts comprising a plurality of individual reaction vessel-receiving recesses arranged in a different array, each of said reaction vessel-receiving recesses in each of said insert recess arrays being aligned with a different one of the liquid dispensing means of the liquid handler when the insert is received in said insert-receiving space in said base. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the radius of one insert corner in each pair of opposite insert corners is different from the radius of the opposite insert corner in that pair of opposite insert corners. 4. Apparatus for performing chemistry reactions in a plurality of open-mouthed, closed-bottomed, reaction vessels in conjunction with a liquid handler of the type having a plurality of individual liquid dispensing means arranged in a pattern, said apparatus comprising a base having an exterior wall and an interior wall, said interior wall defining an insert-receiving space in said base, at least a portion of said interior wall being inclined relative to said exterior wall, means for sealing the mouths of the reaction vessels, said sealing means being mounted above said base, between the reaction vessels and the liquid dispensing means of the liquid handler, and comprising a sealing plate having a plurality of sealable openings, each of said sealable openings being aligned with a different one of the reaction vessels, such that liquid can be dispensed through said sealing plate into the reaction vessels from the liquid dispensing means of the liquid handler, said insert-receiving space being situated in operative registration with the liquid dispensing means of the liquid handler, and in combination therewith, first and second inserts alternatively insertable into said insert-receiving space in said base, each of said first and second inserts comprising a sidewall at least a portion of which is inclined, wherein said portion of sidewall is inclined to a degree corresponding to that of said portion of said interior wall of said base, each of said inserts comprising a plurality of individual reaction vessel-receiving recesses arranged in a different array, each of said reaction vessel-receiving recesses in each of said insert recess arrays being aligned with a different one of the liquid dispensing means of the liquid handler when the insert is received in said insert-receiving space in said base. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein each of said first and second inserts comprises a bottom surface and wherein said portion of said sidewall is inclined about one degree from a line perpendicular to said bottom surface. 6. The apparatus of any of claims 1, 2 or 4 wherein each of said first and second inserts comprises a reaction vessel-receiving recess array with a different number of vessel-receiving recesses. 7. The apparatus of any of claims 1, 2 or 4 wherein the vessel-receiving recess array in said first insert comprises recesses of a different size than said recesses in the reaction vessel-receiving recesses in said second insert. 8. The apparatus of any of claims 1, 2 or 4 wherein at least one of said inserts comprises 48 vessel-receiving recesses. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein each of said recesses is adapted to receive a reaction vessel with a 11.6 mm diameter. 10. The apparatus of any of claims 1, 2 or 4 wherein at least one of said inserts comprises 24 vessel-receiving recesses. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein each of said recesses is adapted to receive a reaction vessel with a 17 mm diameter. 12. The apparatus of any of claims 1, 2 or 4 wherein at least one of said inserts comprises 9 vessel-receiving recesses. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein each of said recesses is adapted to receive a reaction vessel with a 24 mm diameter. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of said inserts comprises 6 vessel-receiving recesses. 15. The apparatus of any of claims 2 or 4 wherein at least one of said inserts comprises 6 vessel-receiving recesses. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein each of said recesses is adapted to receive a reaction vessel with a 34 mm diameter. 17. The apparatus of any of claims 1, 2 or 4 wherein each of said vessel-receiving recesses in each of said inserts comprises a substantially conical portion. 18. The apparatus of any of claims 1, 2 or 4 wherein each of said vessel-receiving recesses in each of said inserts comprises a substantially semi-circular portion. 19. The apparatus of any of claims 1, 2 or 4 wherein each of said vessel-receiving recesses in each of said inserts comprises an opening proximate the bottom of said recess. 20. The apparatus of any of claim 1, 2 or 4 wherein said base comprises a temperature control fluid channel. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising a temperature control fluid source and means for connecting said source and said channel. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising a temperature control module adapted to be interposed between said plate and said base. 23. The apparatus of any of claims 1, 2 or 4 wherein said first insert comprises a thermo-couple receiving opening. 24. The apparatus of any of claims 1, 2 or 4 further comprising an insert extraction tool having a protrusion, wherein said first insert comprises a protrusion receiving opening. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said tool comprises means for changing said protrusion between an expanded sate, to frictionally engage said protrusion receiving opening, and a non-expanded state, to disengage said opening. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said protrusion is normally in the expanded state. 27. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said protrusion is normally in the non-expanded state. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 further comprises means for maintaining said protrusion in the non-expanded state. 29. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said inserts can be inserted into said insert-receiving space in said base in only a single orientation. 30. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein each of said inserts comprises first and second rounded corners, each of said corners having a different radius. 31. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said insert-receiving space comprises first and second rounded corners, each of said corners of said space having a radius that corresponds to the radius of a different one of said corners of each of said inserts. 32. The apparatus of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein said base comprises a wall defining said insert-receiving space and a bottom surface, said wall being inclined relative to a line perpendicular to said bottom surface of said base by a given amount. 33. The apparatus of any of claims 1 or 2 wherein each of said inserts comprises a side wall and a bottom surface, said side wall being inclined relative to a line perpendicular to said bottom surface of said insert by a given amount. 34. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein the amount of inclination of said wall of said base and the amount of inclination of said side wall of said insert are substantially equal. 35. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein the amount of inclination of said wall of said base and the amount of inclination of said side wall of said insert are each approximately one degree. 36. The apparatus of any of claims 1, 2 or 4 wherein each of said inserts has a side wall with an outwardly extending lip adapted to rest on said base when said insert is received in said space. 37. The apparatus of any of claims 1, 2 or 4 further comprising magnetic stirrer means and a magnetic stirrer bar situated within one of the reaction vessels received in one of the recesses in one of said inserts, said bar being longer than the diameter of the vessel in which said bar is received. 