A structure for use in a semiconductor processing environment is provided, including a first plate a second plate bonded to the first plate. A distal end of the second plate extends beyond a distal end of the first plate. The distal end of the first plate is tapered along a length at least one-half of a width of the first plate adjacent the tapered distal end of the first plate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A structure for transporting a semiconductor wafer, comprising an arm portion having a distal end, and a head portion having a curved proximal edge having a width substantially equal to a width of the arm portion, the distal end of the arm portion overlapping and being bonded to the head portion, the proximal edge of the head portion extending across a surface of the arm portion, and wherein the curved proximal edge has a width substantially equal to a width of the arm portion where the arm portion overlaps the proximal edge of the head portion, wherein the distal end of the arm portion is bonded to the head portion along a curved bonding line adjacent the proximal edge of the head portion. 2. The structure of claim 1, wherein the arm portion comprises a lower plate and an upper plate bonded to the lower plate. 3. A structure for transporting a semiconductor wafer, comprising an arm portion having a distal end, and a head portion having a curved proximal edge, the distal end of the arm portion overlapping and being bonded to the head portion, the proximal edge of the head portion extending across a surface of the arm portion, wherein the proximal edge of the head portion extends along a generally circular arc and the distal end of the arm portion is bonded to the head portion along a curved bonding line adjacent the proximal edge of the head portion, the arm portion comprising a lower plate bonded to an upper plate, wherein the upper plate has a curved distal end extending across the lower plate. 4. The structure of claim 3, wherein the distal end of the upper plate extends along a generally circular arc. 5. The structure of claim 4, wherein the generally circular arc has a diameter approximately equal to a width of the upper plate adjacent the tapered distal end of the upper plate. 6. The structure of claim 5, wherein the head portion is bonded to the lower plate of the arm portion. 7. The structure of claim 6, wherein the distal end of the upper plate overlaps the proximal edge of the head portion. 8. The structure of claim 7, wherein a groove is formed in at least one of the upper and lower plates, the first groove forming a first gas passage extending along the arm portion between the upper and lower plates. 9. The structure of claim 8, further comprising a wand portion, wherein the wand portion comprises a top plate and a bottom plate, at least one of the top and bottom plates having a plurality of grooves formed therein forming a second gas passage extending along the head portion between the top and bottom plates, the second gas passage being in fluid communication with the first gas passage. 10. A structure for transporting a semiconductor wafer, comprising an arm portion having a distal end, and a head portion having a curved proximal edge having a width substantially equal to a width of the arm portion, the distal end of the arm portion overlapping and being bonded to the head portion, the proximal edge of the head portion extending across a surface of the arm portion, and wherein the curved proximal edge has a width substantially equal to a width of the arm portion where the arm portion overlaps the proximal edge of the head portion, wherein the arm portion and the head portion comprise quartz. 11. A structure for transporting a semiconductor wafer, comprising an arm portion having a distal end, and a head portion having a curved proximal edge having a width substantially equal to a width of the arm portion, the distal end of the arm portion overlapping and being bonded to the head portion, the proximal edge of the head portion extending across a surface of the arm portion, and wherein the curved proximal edge has a width substantially equal to a width of the arm portion where the arm portion overlaps the proximal edge of the head portion, wherein the arm portion and the head portion comprise a ceramic material. 12. A structure for transporting a semiconductor wafer, comprising: an elongated arm portion comprising a lower plate and an upper plate bonded to the lower plate, a distal end of the lower plate extending beyond a distal end of the upper plate; and a head portion bonded to the lower plate, the head portion having a proximal edge extending across a surface of the lower plate, wherein the proximal edge has a width substantially equal to a width of the lower plate where the proximal edge extends across the surface of the lower plate, at least one of the distal end of the upper plate and the proximal edge of the head portion being tapered. 13. The structure of claim 12, wherein the proximal edge of the head portion extends along a generally circular arc. 14. The structure of claim 13, wherein the head portion is bonded to the lower plate with a bonding material provided adjacent the proximal edge of the head portion. 15. A structure for transporting a semiconductor wafer, comprising: an elongated arm portion comprising a lower plate and an upper plate bonded to the lower plate, a distal end of the lower plate extending beyond a distal end of the upper plate, wherein the distal end of the upper plate is tapered along a length at least one-half of a width of the upper plate adjacent the tapered distal end; and a head portion bonded to the lower plate, the head portion having a proximal edge extending across a surface of the lower plate, at least one of the distal end of the upper plate and the proximal edge of the head portion being tapered. 16. The structure of claim 15, wherein the upper plate is bonded to the lower plate with a bonding material provided adjacent the distal end of the upper plate. 17. The structure of claim 15, wherein the proximal edge of the head portion is curved along a generally parabolic arc. 18. A structure for transporting a semiconductor wafer, comprising: an elongated arm portion comprising a lower plate and an upper plate bonded to the lower plate, a distal end of the lower plate extending beyond a distal end of the upper plate; and a head portion bonded to the lower plate, the head portion having a proximal edge extending along a generally circular arc across a surface of the lower plate, at least one of the distal end of the upper plate and the proximal edge of the head portion being tapered, wherein the head portion is bonded to the lower plate with a bonding material provided adjacent the proximal edge of the head portion, wherein the bonding material has a melting temperature less than a melting temperature of the arm portion and the head portion. 19. The structure of claim 18, wherein the bonding material is an adhesive glass frit material. 20. A structure for transporting a semiconductor wafer, comprising: an elongated arm portion comprising a lower plate and an upper plate bonded to the lower plate, a distal end of the lower plate extending beyond a distal end of the upper plate; and a head portion bonded to the lower plate, the head portion having a proximal edge extending across a surface of the lower plate, at least one of the distal end of the upper plate and the proximal edge of the head portion being tapered, wherein the lower plate comprises a pair of fingers at the distal end thereof, the fingers extending along an upper surface of a wand portion and being bonded to the upper surface of the wand portion. 21. A structure for use in a semiconductor processing environment, comprising: a first quartz or ceramic plate; and a second quartz or ceramic plate bonded to the first plate, a distal end of the second plate extending beyond a distal end of the first plate, the distal end of the first plate being tapered along a length at least one-half of a width of the first plate adjacent the tapered distal end of the first plate, wherein the distal end of the first plate is curved towards the distal end of the second plate along a generally circular arc having a diameter approximately equal to a width of the first plate adjacent the distal end of the first plate. 22. The structure of claim 21, wherein a proximal end of the first plate is adapted to be connected to an object within the semiconductor processing environment. 23. The structure of claim 22, wherein the first plate and the second plate comprise quartz. 24. The structure of claim 22, wherein the first plate and the second plate comprise a ceramic material. 25. A structure for use in a semiconductor processing environment, comprising: a first elongated plate; and a second elongated plate bonded to the first plate, a distal end of the second plate extending beyond a distal end of the first plate, a cross-sectional area of the first plate taken in a transverse plane generally perpendicular to a plane of the first plate gradually decreasing towards the distal end of the first plate, wherein the cross-sectional area of the first plate decreases along a length at least one-half of a width of the first plate adjacent the distal end of the first plate, and wherein the distal end of the first plate is curved towards the distal end of the second plate along a generally circular arc having a diameter approximately equal to a width of the first plate adjacent the distal end of the first plate. 26. The structure of claim 25, wherein the cross-sectional area of the first plate decreases along a length at least one-half of a width of the first plate adjacent the distal end of the first plate. 