A method is provided which comprises: performing a plurality of fermentations, each fermentation in a different sample vessel; and performing a further processing step on the plurality of fermented samples where the sample is retained in the same sample vessel as the fermentation during the processing step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: performing a plurality of fermentations, each fermentation in a different sample vessel; and performing a further processing step on the plurality of fermented samples where the sample is retained in the same sample vessel as the fermentation during the processing step. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the further processing step is centrifugation of the fermented samples in the sample vessels in which the fermentations were performed. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising grasping the sample vessels with a robotic gripper apparatus in order to move the sample vessels from a first location where the fermentations are performed to a second location where the further processing step is performed. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the fermentations comprise fermentations of prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells, or viral particles. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the fermentation is an anaerobic fermentation. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the fermentation is a bacterial fermentation where a recombinant protein is expressed. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the method further comprises isolating recombinant proteins expressed during the fermentations after the further processing step. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the recombinant proteins are isolated by column chromatography. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the method further comprises crystallizing the isolated recombinant proteins. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the method includes crystallizing tens to thousands of proteins per day. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the crystallized proteins are used to design drugs. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein structures of the crystallized proteins are analyzed by X-ray crystallography. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the protein structures are used in computer assisted drug design. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the further processing step uses a robot that tests tens to thousands of variants of a protein. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the robot includes a plate handler that carries plates from one station to another. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the samples comprise a prokaryotic, eukaryotic, or viral expression system comprising a gene fragment or variant in a vector. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein performing a plurality of fermentations includes performing at least 96 fermentations at the same time. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein hundreds of fermentations are performed per day using the method. 19. The method of claim 10, further comprising analyzing on an imaging station, more than one million images from thousands of crystallizations. 20. The method of claim 10, further comprising identifying crystals from the crystallizations, using crystal-detecting algorithms. 21. The method of claim 10, further comprising using a robot to mount and center about 30 to about 50 crystals per hour with the robot. 