A method and system for transferring a plurality of integrated circuit dies from a first surface to a second surface is described. The second surface is positioned to be closely adjacent to the first surface that has a plurality of dies attached thereto. A distance is reduced between the first surface and the second surface until the plurality of dies contact the second surface and attach to the second surface due to an adhesiveness of the second surface. The first surface and second surface are moved apart. The plurality of dies remain attached to the second surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transferring a plurality of dies from a first surface to a second surface, comprising: (a) positioning the second surface to be closely adjacent to the first surface that has a plurality of dies attached thereto; (b) reducing a distance between the first surface and the second surface until the plurality of dies contact the second surface and attach to the second surface due to an adhesiveness of the second surface; and (c) moving apart the first surface and second surface, whereby the plurality of dies remain attached to the second surface. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (d) prior to step (b), applying an adhesive material to the second surface so that the adhesiveness of the second surface is greater than that of the first surface. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (d) prior to step (a), orienting the plurality of dies attached to the first surface so that at least one contact pad of each die of the plurality of dies is facing away from the first surface. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein step (c) comprises: moving apart the first surface and second surface, whereby the plurality of dies remain attached to the second surface in a pads down manner. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (d) prior to step (a), orienting the plurality of dies attached to the first surface so that at least one contact pad of each die of the plurality of dies is facing toward the first surface. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein step (c) comprises: moving apart the first surface and second surface, whereby the plurality of dies remain attached to the second surface in a pads up manner. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first surface is a scribed wafer, wherein step (a) comprises: positioning the second surface to be closely adjacent to the scribed wafer that has the plurality of dies attached thereto. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first surface is a support surface, wherein step (a) comprises: positioning the second surface to be closely adjacent to the support surface that has the plurality of dies attached thereto. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the second surface is an intermediate surface, wherein step (a) comprises: positioning the intermediate surface to be closely adjacent to the support surface that has the plurality of dies attached thereto. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the second surface is a substrate, wherein step (a) comprises: (1) positioning the substrate to be closely adjacent to the support surface that has the plurality of dies attached thereto. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate includes a plurality of antenna substrates, wherein step (a) comprises: positioning the substrate to be closely adjacent to the support surface that has the plurality of dies attached thereto, wherein each antenna substrate of the plurality of substrates is positioned closely adjacent to a corresponding die of the plurality of dies. 12. A system for transferring a plurality of dies from a first surface to a second surface, comprising: means for reducing a distance between the first surface and the second surface until a plurality of dies of the first surface contact the second surface and attach to the second surface; and means for moving apart the first surface and second surface, whereby the plurality of dies remain attached to the second surface. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said means for reducing a distance and said means for moving apart are overlapping. 14. The system of claim 12, wherein said means for reducing a distance and said means for moving apart are separate. 15. The system of claim 12, wherein the second surface is coated with an adhesive material so that an adhesiveness of the second surface is greater than that of the first surface. 16. The system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of dies of the first surface are oriented so that at least one contact pad of each die of the plurality of dies is facing toward the second surface immediately prior to contacting the second surface. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the plurality of dies attach to the second surface in a pads down manner. 18. The system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of dies of the first surface are oriented so that at least one contact pad of each die of the plurality of dies is facing away from the second surface immediately prior to contacting the second surface. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the plurality of dies attach to the second surface in a pads up manner. 20. The system of claim 12, wherein the first surface is a scribed wafer. 21. The system of claim 12, wherein the first surface is a support surface. 22. The system of claim 12, wherein the second surface is an intermediate surface. 23. The system of claim 12, wherein the second surface is a substrate. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the substrate includes a plurality of antenna substrates. 