An integral machine for polishing, cleaning, rinsing and drying workpieces such as semiconductor wafers. A load/unload station has a plurality of platforms for receiving cassettes of wafers to be processed. A dry end-effector of a robot retrieves wafers from the cassettes and transfers them to an index table. A transfer apparatus having wafer carrier elements picks up wafers from the index table, moves the wafers to a polishing table for polishing, and returns the wafers to the index table for further processing. A flipper moves the polished wafers to a cleaning station. The cleaning station includes scrub stations, a rinsing station and a spin dryer station, and a connective system of water tracks. A wet end-effector of the robot transfers rinsed wafers to the spin dryer station. The dry end-effector of the robot moves dried wafers from the spin dryer station back to the cassette of origination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for robotically transferring semiconductor wafers between a plurality of stations of a machine for performing multiple operations on the wafers using a robot equipped with a dry end-effector and a wet end-effector for handling wafers, the method comprising: transporting dry wafers from a cassette to an index station with the dry end-effector; transporting wet wafers from a rinse station to a spin-dry station with the wet end-effector; and transporting dry wafers from the spin-dry station to another cassette with the dry end-effector. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein transporting dry wafers from a cassette to an index station comprises flipping the wafers. 3. A method for transferring workpieces comprising the steps of: retrieving said workpieces from a first station with a robot; flipping said workpieces over with said robot; placing said workpieces on a second station with said robot; retrieving said workpieces from a third station with said robot after said workpieces are moved from the second station to the third station with a flipper arm that is separate from, and not a part of, the robot; and placing said workpieces on said first station with said robot, wherein said robot includes at least one workpiece gripping device for retrieving and holding said workpieces which includes a dry end-effector for gripping dry workpieces and a wet end-effector for gripping wet workpieces. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein said workpieces are retrieved from a tilted cassette in said first station and transferred with said dry end-effector to an index table in said second station. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein said third station comprises a rinsing station and a drying station, and comprising the additional step of transferring said workpieces from said rinsing station to said drying station with said wet end-effector. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein said workpieces are retrieved from said drying station with said dry end-effector and transferred to said cassette. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein said robot has six axes to permit movement of said end-effectors among said tilted cassette, said index table, said rinsing station, and said drying station. 