The invention provides methods, apparatus, and systems for performing high-throughput preparation and screening of salts and polymorphs of drug candidates. The invention is directed towards enhancing the pre-formulation discovery process used for drug development. In particular, processes that determine suitable salts and processes that discover substantially every polymorph that can form from a particular drug candidate are provided. The processes are performed using several apparatuses that are specifically configured to carry-out various steps in a high-throughput characterization process. One such apparatus is configured for synthesizing a plurality of library members based on, for example, a library model generated by a computer system. Another apparatus may filter the synthesized solution to provide a substantially pure mixture that can be subjected to salt or polymorph testing. Yet another apparatus may be used to crystallize mixtures on a substrate such that the crystallized mixture can be screened by one or more screening devices.
Claims We claim: 1. A filtration assembly for filtering an array of solutions, comprising: a reactor base having a plurality of receptacles: a filtration subassembly having a plurality of first and second channels that are respectively associated with one of said plurality of receptacles, wherein at least one of the plurality of first channels includes at least one filter element, the filtration subassembly including a plurality of sealing elements, the plurality of sealing elements including a plurality of first sealing elements associated with the first channels, the first sealing elements being configured to form a seal with a sample dispensing device while a sample is being introduced from the sample dispensing device into the at least one of the plurality of first channels for filtration, the filtration subassembly further including a plurality of second sealing elements associated with pairs of the first and second channels, the second sealing elements being configured to isolate the pairs of channels from other pairs of channels, the first sealing elements being disposed within a region defined by a corresponding ones of the second sealing elements, and wherein said plurality of second channels has no filter element and provides access to said associated receptacles; and a filter cover that secures said filtration subassembly to said reactor base, said filter cover having a plurality of pairs of holes that align to said plurality of first and second channels. 2. The filtration assembly according to claim 1, wherein said filtration subassembly comprises: a bottom layer that supports said at least one filter element, wherein said bottom layer has a pair of holes respectively associated with each one of said plurality of receptacles; a sealing layer that secures said at least one filter element to said bottom layer, said sealing layer having pairs of holes that align with said pairs of the holes in said bottom layer, said sealing layer further configured to house a plurality of o-rings; and a top layer that secures said plurality of o-rings to said sealing layer to form a substantially airtight seal that isolates each pair of said plurality of first an second channels from other said pairs of first and second channnels, said top lay having pairs of holes that align with said pairs of holes in said sealing layer such that aid plurality of first and second channels are provided. 3. The filtration assembly according to claim 2, wherein said plurality of first sealing elements includes a plurality of small o-rings that align with said plurality of first channels; and said plurality of second sealing elements includes a plurality of large o-rings connected to said small o-rings, each of said plurality of large o-rings surrounding one pair of said plurality of first and second crannels. 4. The filtration assembly according to claim 2, wherein said plurality of o-rings comprises: interconnected rows and columns of large o-ring, wherein each said large o-ring is coupled to a small o-ring. 5. The filtration assembly according to claim 4, wherein said small o-ring is coupled to an inner diameter of said large o-ring. 6. The filtration assembly according to claim 1, wherein said filtration subassembly comprises: at least two filtration plates coupled to said reactor base, said at least two filtration plates having a plurality of pairs of holes that form a portion of said plurality of first and second channels; and a filtration layer that includes said at least one filter element, said filtration layer is positioned between said at least two filtration plates. 7. The filtration assembly according to claim 1, herein said filtration layer comprises a sheet of gasket material that is coupled to said at least one filter element. 8. The filtration assembly according to claim 1 further comprising a filtration barrier sheet positioned between paid reactor base and said filtration subassembly, wherein said filtration barrier sheet has a plurality holes aligned with said plurality of receptacles. 9. The filtration assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a knife-edge ring associated with each of said first plurality of first channels, wherein each said knife-edge ring cuts each of said at least one filter element to a fixed size. 10. The filtration assembly according to claim 1, wherein said filtration assembly is further configured to fit into a heating assembly that subjects said filtration assembly to a thermal profile. 11. The filtration assembly of claim 1, wherein the first sealing elements isolate one or more of the at least one of the plurality of first channels from the corresponding second channel while the sample is being introduced into the first channel for filtration. 12. The filtration assembly of claim 11, wherein the plurality of pairs of holes in the filter cover includes a first hole aligning with the first channel, the first hole being configured to guide a sample dispensing device into operable engagement with the corresponding first sealing element while the sample is being introduced into the first channel for filtration. 13. The filtration assembly of claim 1, further comprising a heating assembly enclosing at least a portion of said filtration subassembly, said heating assembly being operable to heat said at least a portion of said filtration subassembly during a filtration process. 14. A filtration assembly for filtering an array of solutions, comprising: a reactor base having a plurality of receptades; a filtration subassembly having a plurality of pairs of channels, each of the plurality of pairs of channels being associated with one of the plurality of receptacles, each of the plurality of pairs of channels including a first channel having filter element, and a second channel having no filter element and providing access to the associated receptacle, the filtration subassembly including an o-ring layer, the o-ring layer including a plurality of small o-rings aligned with the first channels and a plurality of large o-rings aligned with the pairs of channels, the small o-rings being configured to form a seal with a sample dispensing device while a sample is being introduced from the sample dispensing device into the first channels for filtration, the large o-rings being configured to isolate the pairs of channels from other pairs of channels, each of the small o-rings being disposed within a region defined by a corresponding one of the large o-rings; a filter cover that secures said filtration subassembly to said reactor base, said filter cover having a plurality of pairs of holes that align said plurality of first and second channels. 15. The filtration assembly of claim 1, further comprising: a sample dispensing device for delivering samples to the first channels for filtration, the sample dispensing device being configured to engage with the first sealing element while a sample is being introduced into the first channel for filtration. 16. A method of filtering one or more liquid samples, the method comprising: providing a filtration assembly comprising a reactor base having a plurality of receptacles, and a filtration subassembly having a plurality of first and second channels, pairs of the first and second channels being associated with respective ones of the plurality of receptacles, at least one of the plurality of first channels including at least one filter element, the plurality of second channels having no filter element and providing access to the associated receptacles, the filtration subassembly including a plurality of sealing elements, the plurality of sealing a elements include a first sealing element associated with the at least one of the plurality of first channels and a second sealing element associated with the at least one of the plurality of first channels and the corresponding one of the plurality of second channels, the first sealing element being disposed within a region defined by the second sealing element; introducing a sample into the at least one of the plurality of first channels for filtration using a sample dispensing device, the sample dispensing device engaging with the first sealing element to form a seal in the at least one of the plurality of first channels during the introduction of the sample; and accessing the receptacle associated with the at least one of the plurality of first channels with a sample collecting device to collect a filtrate resulting from filtration of the sample. 