A mechanical release mechanism is provided. The mechanical release mechanism includes two structural members in slideable relation one to another. A latch holds one structural member in a latched position relative to the other structural member. A shape memory alloy member disposed within one of the structural members is used to move the latch holding the other structural member thereby allowing relative motion between the structural members.
Claims We claim: 1. A mechanical release mechanism comprising: a first structural member moveable between a latched position and an unlatched position; a bias member coupled to said first structural member; a second structural member; a latch integrated with the second structural member, the latch having a bias position above the surface of said second structural member, the latch positioned to oppose the force generated by the bias member when the first structural member is in the latched position; a shape memory alloy member mounted within said second structural member and coupled to said latch, said shape memory alloy member producing linear activation force that moves the latch towards the surface of the second structural member to produce relative movement between the first structural member and second structural member, wherein said shape memory alloy member is connected to a first connection point within the second structural member, to the latch, and to a second connection point within the second structural member such that an included angle is formed between the first and second connection points and the latch. 2. The mechanical release mechanism of claim 1 wherein the bias member is a spring. 3. The mechanical release mechanism of claim 1 wherein said second structural member is disposed within said first structural member. 4. The mechanical release mechanism of claim 1 wherein said shape memory alloy member comprises nickel and titanium. 5. The mechanical release mechanism of claim 1 wherein said shape memory alloy member produces a linear activation force when it is heated above its austenite transition temperature by applying an electric current to the shape memory alloy member. 6. The mechanical release mechanism of claim 5 further comprising a switch disposed within the second structural member, the switch positioned such that after the latch moves towards the surface of the second structural member the switch interrupts the electric current provided to the shape memory alloy member. 7. The mechanical release mechanism of claim 1 wherein the shape memory alloy member is a wire formed from a shape memory alloy material. 8. The mechanical release mechanism of claim 1 wherein when the first structural member moves to an unlatched position, the first structural member moves in a direction generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second structural member. 9. A mechanical release mechanism comprising: a first member having a first fixed mechanical obstruction, a second fixed mechanical obstruction and a moveable mechanical obstruction disposed between the first and second fixed mechanical obstructions, the moveable mechanical obstruction movable between a cocked position and a fired position; a second member disposed in slideable relation to the first member and moveable between a first position when the second member is urged into contact with the moveable mechanical obstruction by a stored energy member and a second position when the second member is in contact with the second fixed mechanical obstruction; and a shape memory alloy wire disposed within the first member to provide a linear actuation force that selectively alters the moveable mechanical obstruction from the cocked position to the fired position, causing the stored energy member to move the second member into contact with the second fixed mechanical obstruction on the first member, wherein said shape memory alloy wire is connected to a first connection point within the first member, to the moveable mechanical obstruction, and to a second connection point within the first member such that an included angle is formed between the first and second connection points and the moveable mechanical obstruction. 10. The mechanical release mechanism of claim 9 wherein the stored energy member is a spring. 11. The mechanical release mechanism of claim 9 wherein the second member moves along the longitudinal axis of the first member. 12. The mechanical release mechanism according to claim 9 where the included angle is greater than 90.degree.. 13. The mechanical release mechanism according to claim 9 where the included angle is less than 25.degree.. 14. The mechanical release mechanism according to claim 9 wherein the length of shape memory alloy wire between the first connection point and the moveable mechanical obstruction is substantially equivalent to the length of shape memory alloy wire between the second connection point and the moveable mechanical obstruction. 15. The mechanical release mechanism of claim 9 wherein the moveable mechanical obstruction is integrally formed in the first member. 16. An apparatus for using a shape memory alloy to control a moveable mechanical obstruction, comprising: a first member, positionable between a cocked position and a fired position; a second member disposed in slideable relation to the first member; a resilient member coupled to the first member; a moveable mechanical obstruction integral to the second member, the moveable mechanical obstruction moveable between a cocked position and a fired position such that when the movable mechanical obstruction is in the cocked position the first member is held in the cocked position against the resilient member; a shaped memory alloy wire disposed within said second member and attached to the moveable mechanical obstruction such that the moveable mechanical obstruction is moved from the cocked position to the fired position by a linear actuation force generated when the shape memory alloy wire is heated above its austenite transition temperature by applying electric current to the shape memory alloy wire and that when the moveable mechanical obstruction is in the fired position the resilient member causes the first member to move relative to the second member in a direction generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second member. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the moveable mechanical obstruction is adapted such that it is moveable from the fired position to the cocked position for repeated use. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising a heat sink disposed within said second member. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the heat sink is positioned such that the shape memory alloy wire is moved toward the heat sink when the moveable mechanical obstruction is moved from the cocked position to the fired position, whereby the heat sink prevents the shape memory alloy wire from exceeding a determined temperature. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the heat sink is integrally formed in said second member. 21. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the shape memory alloy wire contacts the heat sink when the moveable mechanical obstruction is moved from the cocked position to the fired position. 