A tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim includes a robot having at least one articulated joint and a wrist. The robot is moveable with at least three degrees of freedom along a selectable one of a plurality of programmable predetermined paths. A central processing unit selectively executes any one of the plurality of paths stored in memory. A bead mounting tool is attachable to the wrist of the robot for movement along the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths of the robot. The tool is orientatable with at least three degrees of freedom independent of the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths. A workpiece support positions the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the robot and positions the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim. A signal is generated and sent to the robot corresponding to a size of the rim and tire combination to be assembled. The central processing unit selects one of the plurality of predetermined paths corresponding to the rim and tire size combination. The robot includes one or more sensors for measuring load on the articulated joint arid wrist during a tire mounting cycle. The control program includes a sensor monitoring function for stopping movement of the tool in response to a load greater than a predetermined value. A clamp member prevents rotation of the tire with respect to the rim as the tool works a bead of the tire over the rim.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the apparatus comprising: a bead mounting tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths including at least one non-circular tire-mounting path; means for generating an electrical signal corresponding to a size of the rim and tire; and means for selectively controlling movement of the tool along one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths corresponding to the size of the rim and tire in response to the electrical signal, wherein the controlling means includes programmable means for defining the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths of movement for the tool including at least one three dimensional tire-mounting path. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising; a tool mount moveable along the selectable one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths; and the tool attachable to the tool mount, the tool orientatable independent of the selected one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths for the tool mount. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a workpiece support for positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the tool and for positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim. 4. A method for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the method comprising the steps of: orientating a bead mounting tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths including at least one non-circular tire-mounting path; generating an electrical signal corresponding to a size of the rim and tire; and selectively controlling movement of the tool along one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths corresponding to the rim and tire size in response to the electrical signal, wherein the controlling step includes programming movement of the tool to define the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths of movement for the tool including at least one three dimensional tire-mounting path. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the steps of: moving a tool mount along the selectable one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths; and orientating the tool independent of the selected one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths for the tool mount, the tool attachable to the tool mount. 6. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of: positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the tool and positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim on a workpiece support. 7. In a tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the improvement comprising: a bead-mounting tool having a rim engaging portion and a tire engaging portion for forcing the bead of the tire over the rim in response to controlled movement of the tool with respect to the rim and tire, the tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths corresponding to a size of the rim and tire to be mounted and including at least one non-circular tire-mounting path; and means for electrically controlling movement of the tool and for electrically selecting one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths in response to the size of the rim and tire to be mounted. 8. The improvement of claim 7 further comprising: a tool mount for controlled movement along one of a plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths; and the tool attachable to the tool mount, the tool orientatable independent of the selected one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths for the tool mount. 9. The improvement of claim further comprising: means for controlling movement of the tool mount and for selecting one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths in response to a size of the rim and tire to be mounted. 10. The improvement of claim 7 further comprising: the means for electrically controlling including programmable means for defining the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths of movement for the tool including at least one non-planar tire-mounting path. 11. A tire mounting apparatus for mounting flexible tire on a rim, the apparatus comprising: a bead mounting tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined tire- mounting paths including at least one tire-mounting path wherein at least one of an elevation of the tool relative to the rim, an angle of the tool relative to the rim, and a pitch of the tool relative to the rim can be changed during movement of the tool around a periphery of the rim; means for generating an electrical signal corresponding to a size of the rim and tire; and means for selectively controlling movement of the tool along one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths corresponding to the size of the rim and tire in response to the electrical signal. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising: a tool mount moveable along the selectable one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths; and the tool attachable to the tool mount, the tool orientatable independent of the selected one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths for the tool mount. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising: a workpiece support for positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the tool and for positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim. 14. A method for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the method comprising the steps of: orientating a bead mounting tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths including at least one non-planar tire-mounting path; generating an electrical signal corresponding to a size of the rim and tire; and selectively controlling movement of the tool along one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths corresponding to the rim and tire size in response to the electrical signal. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the steps of: moving a tool mount along the selectable one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths; and orientating the tool independent of the selected one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths for the tool mount, the tool attachable to the tool mount. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of: positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the tool and positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim on a workpiece support. 17. In a tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the improvement comprising: a bead-mounting tool having a rim engaging portion and a tire engaging portion for forcing the bead of the tire over the rim in response to controlled movement of the tool with respect to the rim and tire, the tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths corresponding to a size of the rim and tire to be mounted and including at least one non-planar tire-mounting path; and means for electrically controlling movement of the tool and for electrically selecting one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths in response to the size of the rim and tire to be mounted. 18. The improvement of claim 17 further comprising: a tool mount for controlled movement along one of a plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths; and the tool attachable to the tool mount, the tool orientatable independent of the selected one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths for the tool mount. 19. The improvement of claim 18 further comprising: means for controlling movement of the tool mount and for selecting one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths in response to a size of the rim and tire to be mounted. 20. A tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the apparatus comprising: a bead mounting tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths including at least one three dimensional tire-mounting path; means for generating an electrical signal corresponding to a size of the rim and tire; and means for selectively controlling movement of the tool along one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths corresponding to the size of the rim and tire in response to the electrical signal. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising: a tool mount moveable along the selectable one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths with three degrees of freedom; and the tool attachable to the tool mount, the tool orientatable with three degrees of freedom independent of the selected one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths for the tool mount. 22. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising: a workpiece support for positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the tool and for positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim. 23. A method for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the method comprising the steps of: orientating a bead mounting tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths including at least one three dimensional tire-mounting path; generating an electrical signal corresponding to a size of the rim and tire; and selectively controlling movement of the tool along one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths corresponding to the rim and tire size in response to the electrical signal. 24. The method of claim 23 further comprising the steps of: moving a tool mount along the selectable one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths for the tool mount, the tool attachable to the tool mount. 25. The method of claim 23 further comprising the step of: positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the tool and positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim on a workpiece support. 26. In a tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the improvement comprising: a bead-mounting tool having a rim engaging portion and a tire engaging portion for forcing the bead of the tire over the rim in response to controlled movement of the tool with respect to the rim and tire, the tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths corresponding to a size of the rim and tire to be mounted and including at least one three dimensional tire-mounting path; and means for electrically controlling movement of the tool and for electrically selecting one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths in response to the size of the rim and tire to be mounted. 27. The improvement of claim 26 further comprising: a tool mount for controlled movement along one of a plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths with three degrees of freedom; and the tool attachable to the tool mount, the tool orientatable with three degrees of freedom independent of the selected one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths for the tool mount. 28. The improvement of claim 27 further comprising: means for controlling movement of the tool mount and for selecting one of the plurality of predetermined tire-mounting paths in response to a size of the rim and tire to be mounted. 