A steerable, tendon-driven endoscope is described herein. The endoscope has an elongated body with a manually or selectively steerable distal portion and an automatically controlled, segmented proximal portion. The steerable distal portion and the segment of the controllable portion are actuated by at least two tendons. As the endoscope is advanced, the user maneuvers the distal portion, and a motion controller actuates tendons in the segmented proximal portion so that the proximal portion assumes the selected curve of the selectively steerable distal portion. By this method the selected curves are propagated along the endoscope body so that the endoscope largely conforms to the pathway selected. When the endoscope is withdrawn proximally, the selected curves can propagate distally along the endoscope body. This allows the endoscope to negotiate tortuous curves along a desired path through or around and between organs within the body.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for insertion into a body cavity comprising: an elongated body comprising a plurality of articulatable segments and a steerable distal portion; a plurality of tensioning members attached to each of at least a majority of said segments; each of said segments being configurable to assume a selected shape along an arbitrary path by actuation of the tensioning members attached thereto, wherein each of said segments is articulatable by at least one of said tensioning members; said tensioning members extending from said segments to the proximal end of said elongated body and being configured to be coupled to an external control unit; and wherein said segments adjacent to one another are adapted to assume a selected shape of the adjacent segment by actuation of said tensioning members when the elongated body is advanced distally or proximally. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a handle located proximal to said articulatable segments. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further wherein paid steerable distal portion is configurable via controls located on said handle. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the steerable distal portion is configurable via said external control unit. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said control unit further comprises a computer. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said control unit is adapted to adjust said tensioning members for compressive and tensile forces applied to said tensioning members. 7. The apparatus claim 1 wherein said control unit further comprises actuators for applying force to articulate said tensioning members. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said actuators are selected from the group consisting of electromechanical motors, pneumatic and hydraulic cylinders, pneumatic and hydraulic motors, solenoids, shape memory alloy wires, and electronic rotary actuators. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tensioning members are coupled to said external control unit via a quick-release attachment. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said segments are actuated by at least two of said tensioning members. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising at least one biasing element adapted to provide a biasing force in opposition to said tensioning members. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a segment proximal to another segment is adapted to assume the selected shape of the segment more distally located by actuation of said tensioning members when the apparatus is advanced distally. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a segment distal to another segment is adapted to assume the selected shape of the segment more proximally located by actuation of said tensioning members when the apparatus is retracted proximally. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the proximal segments are longer relative to a length of the distal segments. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the proximal segments have a wider diameter relative to a diameter of the distal segments. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a flexible, passive tubular member extending proximally from said elongated and segmented body. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said segments comprise a plurality of control rings and said control rings have passages defined therethrough comprising a lumen. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said control rings further comprise hinges for attaching to adjacent control rings. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said elongated body further comprises a flexible backbone axially located within said elongated body to which said control rings are attachable. 20. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein each said tensioning members comprises a tendon cable and a tendon housing radially encompassing said tendon cable such that said tendon cable is free to move axially within said tendon housing. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the most distal control ring of each of said segments further comprises attachment sites for at least two of said tendon cables, wherein the control rings proximal to the most distal control ring of each of said segments further comprise passageways for at least two of said tendon cables, and wherein the most proximal control ring of each of said segments further comprises attachment sites for said tendon housings. 22. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the elongated body defines one or more lumens therethrough. 23. A system for inserting an apparatus into a body cavity, comprising: an elongate body having a proximal end and a selectively steerable distal end, the elongate body comprising a plurality of segment; at least two tensioning members attached to each of at least a majority of segments for actuating said segments and wherein when the distal end assumes a selected curve, the selected curve is propagatable along the elongate body by said tensioning members selectively actuating said segments; and a control unit in communication with each of the segments for selectively controlling each tensioning member to alter the relative position of the segments when the selected curve is propagated along the elongate body. 24. The system claim 23 further comprising an axial transducer having a sensor for measuring a distance the elongate body is advanced into or withdrawn from the body cavity. 25. The system of claim 23 further comprising a steering controller in communication with the steerable distal end for choosing the selected curve. 26. The system of claim 25 wherein the steering controller comprises a controller selected from the group consisting of joysticks, touch pads, track balls, mouse controllers, sensory gloves and control wheels. 27. The system of claim 26 further comprising an imaging system for transmitting an image from the distal end to the proximal end of the elongated body. 28. The system of claim 27 wherein the imaging system comprises a fiberoptic imaging bundle extending from the distal end to the proximal end of the elongate body. 29. The system claim 28 wherein the imaging system comprises a CCD camera. 30. The system claim 28 wherein the imaging system comprises a CMOS camera. 31. The system of claim 23 further comprising at least one illumination source on the elongate body for providing a source of light. 32. The system of claim 31 wherein the illumination source comprises at least one illumination fiber extending from the distal end to the proximal end of the elongate body. 33. The system of claim 23 further comprising a recording device in communication with the elongate body for recording images from the distal end of the elongate body. 34. The system of claim 23 wherein the elongate body is configured as an endoscope for insertion into a patient's body. 35. The system of claim 23 wherein the elongate body is configured as a colonoscope for insertion into a patient's colon. 36. The system of claim 23 wherein the elongate body is configured as a laparoscope for insertion into a patient's body cavity. 37. The system of claim 23 wherein the elongated body defines one or more lumens therethrough. 38. A method of advancing an apparatus along a selected path, comprising: providing an elongate body having a proximal end and a selectively steerable distal end, the elongate body comprising a plurality of segments and at least two tensioning members connected to each of at least a majority of segments for actuating said segments and wherein each tensioning members is independently controllable; selectively steering the distal end to assume a first selected curve along a desired path; and advancing the elongate body distally while controlling the proximal end of the instrument to assume the first selected curve of the distal end. 39. The method of claim 38 further comprising measuring an axial position change of the elongate body while advancing the instrument distally. 40. The method of claim 39 further comprising incrementing a current axial position by the axial position change. 41. The method of claim 40 further comprising communicating to each segment to adjust a position of each segment while advancing the elongate body. 42. The method of claim 38 further comprising advancing the elongate body proximally while controlling the proximal end of the instrument to assume the first selected curve of the distal end. 43. The method of claim 42 further comprising measuring an axial position change of the elongate body while advancing the instrument proximally. 44. The method of claim 43 further comprising decrementing a current axial position by the axial position change. 45. The method of claim 44 further comprising communicating to each segment to adjust a position of each segment while advancing the elongate body. 46. The method of claim 38 further comprising re-initializing the apparatus such that the elongate body is recalibrated. 47. The method of claim 46 wherein re-initializing the apparatus comprises allowing the elongate body to conform to an arbitrary configuration. 48. The method of claim 47 further comprising storing at least one new position of at least one segment. 