A traveling highline aerial cable rail system for moving objects over large distances in three-dimensional space. A pair of track dollies mounted beneath substantially parallel and distantly separated support trusses allow the entire load bearing highline itself to traverse X-axis space. The highline defines the Y-axis of the system and supports a skate that moves along this axis. A platform suspended from the skate moves vertically in the Z-axis and can support extremely heavy loads depending on the gauge of the rope used in the system. A three motor pulley system with a multiplicity of sheaves allow independent movement of all three axes. The system can move objects weighing thousands of pounds stably at 60 miles per hour or more through three-dimensional space. The system can be modularly widened along the X-axis by adding truss sections, and the highline can be configured to up to 1000 feet or more, using rope that can support several tons or more. The Z-axis displacement can be multiplied via a pulley arrangement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for three dimensional movement of an object comprising: a first track and a second track, said second track arranged substantially parallel to said first track and wherein said first track and said second track are rigid; a first horizontal support structure and a second horizontal support structure, said first track coupled with said first horizontal support structure and said second track coupled with said second horizontal support structure; a first track dolly configured to travel along said first track; a second track dolly configured to travel along said second track; a highline coupled with said first track dolly and with said second track dolly; a skate supported by said highline; a platform suspended from said skate; a Y movement rope configured to move said skate wherein said Y movement rope is coupled with said skate via said first track dolly and said second track dolly; and, a Y movement motor coupled with said Y movement rope; a first X movement rope configured to move said first track dolly and a second X movement rope configured to move said second track dolly wherein a Y position of said skate is independent of an X-axis movement of said skate when said first X movement rope and said second X movement rope move and said Y movement rope is not moved between opposing sides of said skate; an X movement motor coupled with said first X movement rope and said second X movement rope wherein said first track dolly and said second track dolly move an equal distance when said X movement motor is rotated in a first direction; a Z movement rope configured to vertically move said platform wherein said Z movement rope is coupled with said platform via said skate and via said first track dolly and said second track dolly; a Z movement motor coupled with said Z movement rope; and, wherein said X movement motor, said Y movement motor and said Z movement motor are computer controlled and ground mounted distally from said first track, said second track, said first track dolly, said second track dolly, said highline, said skate and said platform. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising an electrical generator and plurality of drive units. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said platform is electrically coupled to said generator. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising a dampener mounted on said platform wherein said dampener is selected from the group consisting of an active dampener and a passive dampener. 5. The system of claim 1 further comprising a lower skate interposed between said skate and said platform. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said lower skate is coupled to a beam which is coupled to at least one universal joint that is coupled to said platform. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein said platform further comprises a tag line assembly. 8. A method of three dimensional movement comprising: placing a first track substantially parallel to a second track wherein said first track and said second track are rigid; coupling a first track with a first horizontal support structure and coupling a second track with said second horizontal support structure; mounting a first track dolly near said first track and mounting a second track dolly near said second track; coupling a highline to said first track dolly and to said second track dolly; mounting a skate on said highline; suspending a platform from said skate; coupling a Y movement rope with said skate; coupling a Y movement motor with said Y movement rope; coupling a first X movement rope with said first track dolly and coupling a second X movement rope with said second track dolly; moving said skate in an X-axis direction by moving said first X movement rope and said second X movement rope while maintaining a Y-axis position of said skate without moving said Y movement rope between opposing sides of said skate; coupling an X movement motor to move said first X movement rope and said second X movement rope wherein said first track dolly and said second track dolly move an equal distance when said X movement motor is rotated in a first direction; coupling a Z movement rope to said platform via said skate and via said first track dolly and said second track dolly; coupling a Z movement motor to said Z movement rope; and, mounting said X movement motor, said Y movement motor and said Z movement motor at ground level distally from said first track, said second track, said first track dolly, said second track dolly, said highline, said skate and said platform wherein said X movement motor, said Y movement motor and said Z movement motor are computer controlled. 9. The method according to claim 8 further comprising:. moving said first track dolly and said second track dolly; moving said skate; and, moving said platform. 10. The method according to claim 8 further comprising: controlling platform movement with a computer system and tag line assembly. 11. A system for three dimensional movement comprising: means for placing a first track substantially parallel to a second track wherein said first track and said second track are rigid; means for coupling a first track with a first horizontal support structure and means for coupling a second track with said second horizontal support structure; means for mounting a first track dolly near said first track and means for mounting a second track dolly near said second track; means for coupling a highline to said first track dolly and to said second track dolly; means for mounting a skate on said highline; means for suspending a platform from said skate; means for coupling a Y movement rope with said skate; means for coupling a Y movement motor with said Y movement rope; means for coupling a first X movement rope with said first track dolly and coupling a second X movement rope with said second track dolly; means for moving said skate in an X-axis direction by moving said first X movement rope and said second X movement rope while maintaining a Y-axis position of said skate without moving said Y movement rope between opposing sides of said skate; means for coupling an X movement motor to move said first X movement rope and said second X movement rope wherein said first track dolly and said second track dolly move an equal distance when said X movement motor is rotated in a first direction; means for coupling a Z movement rope to said platform via said skate and via said first track dolly and said second track dolly; means for coupling Z movement motor to said Z movement rope; and, means for mounting said X movement motor, said Y movement motor and said Z movement motor at ground level distally from said first track, said second track, said first track dolly, said second track dolly, said highline, said skate and said platform wherein said X movement motor, said Y movement motor and said Z movement motor are computer controlled. 12. The system according to claim 11 further comprising: means for moving said first track dolly and said second track dolly; means for moving said skate; and, means for moving said platform. 13. The system according to claim 11 further comprising: means for controlling platform movement with a computer system and tag line assembly. 