A processor for processing integrated circuit wafers, semiconductor substrates, data disks and similar units requiring very low contamination levels. The processor has an interface section which receives wafers in standard wafer carriers. The interface section transfers the wafers from carriers onto novel trays for improved processing. The interface unit can hold multiple groups of multiple trays. A conveyor having an automated arm assembly moves wafers supported on a tray. The conveyor moves the trays from the interface along a track to several processing stations. The processing stations are accessed from an enclosed area adjoining the interface section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing semiconductor articles comprising: an enclosure; an opening extending through the enclosure for loading articles into the apparatus; a docking station adjacent to the opening for receiving a closed container containing articles in a horizontal orientation; a container operator adjacent to the docking station for opening the container to provide access to the articles in the container, to allow the articles to be removed from the container; one or more centrifugal process chambers within the enclosure; a loading subsystem for changing the orientation of the articles from horizontal to substantially vertical and for loading and unloading articles within a carrier into and out of the process chambers; and a spin motor associated with each process chamber, for spinning the carrier holding the articles within the process chamber, with the articles in a substantially vertical orientation, while a process liquid is sprayed onto the articles. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the carrier has sidewalls including a plurality of grooves for receiving edges of the articles. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 comprising a plurality of process chambers aligned in an array in the process section. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a carriage linearly moveable within the enclosure and including a shelf for holding articles. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a control panel supported on the enclosure, and with a computer based control system linked to the control panel. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a centrifugal process chamber door mounted for controlled powered vertical motion between a closed upward position and a downwardly retracted open position. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 with the container operator including a moveable panel support for removing a door from the sealed container to unseal the container and provide access to the articles within the container. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 with the loading subsystem comprising a relay arm within the enclosure and a relay pivot drive motor for moving the relay arm between vertical and horizontal positions. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising an engagement head on the relay arm adapted to engage the carrier, for moving the carrier from a horizontal to a vertical orientation. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a transfer robot moveable along a guide track adjacent to a process chamber. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 with the docking station having positions for holding one or more batches of the articles. 12. An apparatus for processing semiconductor articles comprising: an enclosure; an opening extending through the enclosure for loading articles into the apparatus; docking means for receiving a container containing articles in a horizontal position; container opening means for opening the container to provide access to the articles in the container, to allow the articles to be removed from the container; position changing means for changing the position of the articles from horizontal to vertical; one or more centrifugal process chambers within the enclosure; process chamber loading means for loading and unloading articles within a carrier into and out of the process chambers; and a spin motor associated with each process chamber, for spinning the carrier holding the articles within the process chamber, with the articles in a vertical position, while a process liquid is sprayed onto the articles. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the carrier has sidewalls including a plurality of grooves for receiving edges of the articles. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 comprising a plurality of process chambers aligned in an array in the process section. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 further including a control panel supported on the enclosure, and with a computer based control system linked to the control panel. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 further including a centrifugal process chamber door means on substantially each of the one or more centrifugal process chambers, for controlled powered vertical motion between a closed upward position and a downwardly retracted open position. 17. The apparatus of claim 12 with the container operator including a moveable panel support for moving a removable panel from the container downwardly, to provide access to the articles within the container. 18. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the process chamber loading means includes an articulated robot having arm segments pivotably joined together. 19. The apparatus of claim 12 with the loading subsystem comprising a relay arm within the enclosure and a relay pivot drive motor for moving the relay arm between vertical and horizontal positions. 20. A system for processing semiconductor wafers comprising: an enclosure; an opening extending through the enclosure for loading wafers into the system; a docking station for receiving a closed container containing wafers in a horizontal orientation; a container operator including a moveable element for engaging and removing a door from a closed container, to provide access to the wafers within the container; a plurality of centrifugal process chambers aligned in an array within the enclosure; a chamber door on substantially each process chamber, with the chamber door movable downwardly from a closed position to an open position; a carrier having sidewalls including a plurality of grooves for receiving edges of the wafers; a loading subsystem associated with the carrier for changing the orientation of the carrier holding the wafers from horizontal to vertical and for loading and unloading wafers into and out of the process chambers; and a spin motor associated with each process chamber, for spinning the carrier within the process chamber, with the wafers in a vertical or near vertical orientation, while a process liquid is sprayed onto them. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the carrier has sidewalls including a plurality of grooves for receiving edges of the articles. 22. The apparatus of claim 20 further including a control panel supported on the enclosure, and with a computer based control system linked to the control panel. 23. The apparatus of claim 20 further including a centrifugal process chamber door mounted for controlled powered vertical motion between a closed upward position and a downwardly retracted open position. 24. The apparatus of claim 20 with the container operator including a moveable panel support for removing a door from the sealed container to unseal the container and provide access to the articles within the container. 