Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of C-reactive protein. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding C-reactive protein. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of C-reactive protein expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of C-reactive protein are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composition comprising a compound up to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule (SEQ ID NO: 3) encoding C-reactive protein, wherein said compound comprises SEQ ID NO: 27 and wherein said compound specifically hybridizes with at least an 8-nucleotide portion of said nucleic acid molecule encoding C-reactive protein and inhibits the expression of C-reactive protein, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 2. The composition of claim 1 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 3. The composition of claim 1 wherein the compound as an antisense oligonucleotide. 4. The composition of claim 3, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 5. The composition of claim 4 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 6. The composition of claim 3 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 7. The composition of claim 6 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 8. The composition of claim 3 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 9. The composition of claim 8 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 10. The composition of claim 3 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 11. A compound up to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule (SEQ ID NO: 3) encoding C-reactive protein, wherein said compound comprises SEQ ID NO: 27 and wherein said compound specifically hybridizes with at least an 8-nucleotide portion of said nucleic acid molecule encoding C-reactive protein and inhibits the expression of C-reactive protein. 12. The compound of claim 11 wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 13. The compound of claim 12, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 14. The compound of claim 13 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 15. The compound of claim 12 wherein all of the internucleoside linkages of the antisense oligonucleotide are phosphorothioate linkages. 16. The compound of claim 12 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 17. The compound of claim 16 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 18. The compound of claim 12 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 19. The compound of claim 18 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 20. The compound of claim 15 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 21. The compound of claim 20 wherein the chimeric oligonucleotide is a gapmer. 22. The compound of claim 21 wherein the gapmer comprises: a 5' wing segment; a 3' wing segment; and a gap segment positioned between said 5' wing segment and said 3' wing segment. 23. The compound of claim 22 wherein each of said 5' wing segment and 3' wing segment comprise at least one 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 24. The compound of claim 11 which is 20 nucleotides in length. 25. A method of inhibiting the expression of C-reactive protein in cells or tissues comprising contacting cells or tissues with a compound 12 to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding C-reactive protein (SEQ ID NO: 3), wherein said compound comprises at least an 8 nucleobase portion of SEQ ID NO: 27 and wherein said compound specifically hybridizes with at least an 8-nucleobase portion of said nucleic acid molecule encoding C-reactive protein and inhibits the expression of C-reactive protein, so that expression of C-reactive protein is inhibited. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 29. The method of claim 27 wherein the all of the modified internucleoside linkages of the antisense oligonucleotide are phosphorothioate linkages. 30. The method of claim 26 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 32. The method of claim 26 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 34. The method of claim 29 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the chimeric oligonucleotide is a gapmer. 36. The method of claim 35 wherein the gapmer comprises: a 5' wing segment; a 3' wing segment; and a gap segment positioned between said 5' wing segment and said 3' wing segment. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein each of said 5' wing segment and 3' wing segment comprise at least one 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 