A robot that includes a plurality of roller assemblies. Each roller assembly may include a transmission roller that is spun by a drive mechanism to rotate a drive ball. Rotation of the drive ball propels the robot across a surface. The transmission roller is in continuous contact with the drive ball. Continuous contact between the roller and ball eliminates roller induced wobble in the robot movement, reduces impact forces and resultant stress within the roller assembly and allows for the use of a drive ball that is more complaint than balls in the prior art.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A drive roller assembly of a platform that moves along a surface, comprising: a platform; a drive ball that is coupled to said platform and rotates along the surface; a transmission roller that is in continuous contact with said drive ball, said transmission roller can actively rotate about a first axis and passively rotate about a second axis, and, a drive mechanism that is coupled to said platform and rotates said transmission roller wherein said rotating transmission roller rotates said drive ball and moves said platform. 2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said drive mechanism includes a motor. 3. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said transmission roller is attached to a bracket. 4. The assembly of claim 3, wherein said bracket has a groove in an outside surface that allows a portion of said transmission roller to make contact with said drive ball. 5. The assembly of claim 3, wherein said drive mechanism includes a pulley that is coupled to a motor and said bracket. 6. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said transmission roller includes an addendum roller attached to a primary roller. 7. A drive roller assembly of a platform that moves along a surface, comprising: a platform: a drive ball that is coupled to said platform and rotates along the surface; a transmission roller that is in continuous contact with said drive ball, said transmission roller can actively rotate about a first axis and passively rotate about a second axis; and, a drive means for rotating said transmission roller and driving said drive ball wherein said rotating transmission roller rotates said drive ball and moves said platform. 8. The assembly of claim 7, wherein said drive means includes a motor. 9. The assembly of claim 7, wherein said transmission roller is attached to a bracket. 10. The assembly of claim 9, wherein said bracket has a groove in an outside surface that allows a portion of said transmission roller to make contact with said drive ball. 11. The assembly of claim 9, wherein said drive means includes a pulley that is coupled to a motor and said bracket. 12. The assembly of claim 7, wherein said transmission roller includes an addendum roller attached to a primary roller. 13. A method for operating a roller assembly comprising: activating a drive mechanism within a mobile robot; rotating a transmission roller about a first axis with the drive mechanism; rotating a drive ball to rotate along a surface through rotation of the transmission roller that is in continuous contact with the drive ball; and rotating the transmission roller about a second axis. 14. A mobile robot that moves along a surface, comprising: a platform; a first drive roller assembly that is coupled to said platform and includes; a drive ball that is coupled to said platform and rotates along the surface; a transmission roller that is in continuous contact with said drive ball, said transmission roller can actively rotate about a first axis and passively rotate about a second axis; a drive mechanism coupled to said transmission roller; a pedestal coupled to said platform; a camera coupled to said pedestal; and, a screen coupled to said pedestal. 15. The robot of claim 14, wherein said drive mechanism includes a motor. 16. The robot of claim 14, wherein said transmission roller is attached to a bracket. 17. The robot of claim 16, wherein said bracket has a groove in an outside surface that allows a portion of said transmission roller to make contact with said drive ball. 18. The robot of claim 16, wherein said drive mechanism includes a pulley that is coupled to a motor and said bracket. 19. The robot of claim 14, wherein said transmission roller includes an addendum roller attached to a primary roller. 20. The robot of claim 14, further comprising a second drive roller assembly and a third drive roller assembly. 21. The robot of claim 14, wherein said pedestal includes a pivot drive mechanism that is coupled to said camera and said screen, and a swivel drive mechanism that is coupled to said camera and said screen. 22. A mobile robot that moves along a surface, comprising: a platform; a first drive roller assembly that is coupled to said platform and includes; a drive ball that is coupled to said platform and rotates along the surface; a transmission roller that is in continuous contact with said drive ball, said transmission roller can actively rotate about a first axis and passively rotate a second axis; drive means for rotating said transmission roller and driving said drive ball; a pedestal coupled to said platform; a camera coupled to said pedestal; and, a screen coupled to said pedestal. 23. The robot of claim 22, wherein said drive means includes a motor. 24. The robot of claim 22, wherein said transmission roller is attached to a bracket. 25. The robot of claim 24, wherein said bracket has a groove in an outside surface that allows a portion of said transmission roller to make contact with said drive ball. 26. The robot of claim 24, wherein said drive means includes a pulley that is coupled to a motor and said bracket. 27. The robot of claim 22, wherein said transmission roller includes an addendum roller attached to a primary roller. 28. The robot of claim 22, further comprising a second drive roller assembly and a third drive roller assembly. 29. The robot of claim 22, wherein said pedestal includes pivot means for pivoting said camera and said screen, and swivel means for swiveling said camera and said screen. 30. A method for operating a mobile robot, comprising: generating an output signal to move a mobile robot; activating a drive mechanism within the mobile robot; rotating a transmission roller about a first axis with the drive mechanism; rotating a drive ball to rotate along a surface through rotation of the transmission roller that is in continuous contact with the drive ball; and rotating the transmission roller about a second axis. 31. The method of claim 30, further comprising swiveling a camera and a screen of the robot and pivoting the camera and the screen. 32. A drive roller assembly for a mobile robot that moves across a surface, comprising: a roller that includes an addendum roller attached to a primary roller that together are in continuous contact with the surface, said roller can passively rotate about a first axis; a bracket coupled to said roller; and, a drive mechanism coupled to said bracket to rotate said roller about a second axis. 33. The assembly of claim 32, wherein said drive mechanism includes a motor. 34. The assembly of claim 32, wherein said bracket has a groove in an outside surface that allows a portion of said roller to make contact with the surface. 35. The assembly of claim 32, wherein said drive mechanism includes a pulley that is coupled to a motor and said bracket. 36. A drive roller assembly for a mobile robot that moves across a surface, comprising: a roller that includes an addendum roller attached to a primary roller that together are in continuous contact with the surface, said roller can passively rotate about a first axis; a bracket coupled to said roller; and, drive means for rotating said bracket and said roller about a second axis. 37. The assembly of claim 36, wherein said drive means includes a motor. 38. The assembly of claim 36, wherein said bracket has a groove in an outside surface that allows a portion of said transmission roller to make contact with the surface. 39. The assembly of claim 36, wherein said drive means includes a pulley that is coupled to a motor and said bracket. 40. A method for operating a drive roller assembly for a mobile robot that moves across a surface, comprising: activating a drive mechanism within a mobile robot; and, rotating a roller that can rotate about at least two axes and is supported by a bracket, and includes an addendum roller attached to a primary roller that are together in continuous contact with the surface, to move the mobile robot. 