A probe assembly for use with a calibration/validation robot to calibrate/validate a plurality of semiconductor tester channels is disclosed. The probe assembly includes a bracket adapted for mounting to the robot and a probe element for engaging test points disposed on the semiconductor tester channels. A magnetic attach/release mechanism cooperates with the bracket and probe element to allow for the separation of the probe element from the bracket whenever the probe element meets a force that exceeds a predetermined value.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A probe assembly for use with a calibration/validation robot to calibrate/validate a plurality of semiconductor tester channels, the probe assembly comprising: a bracket configured to mount to a calibration/validation robot, the bracket including at least one groove; a probe element to engage electrically test points disposed on semiconductor tester channels, the probe element comprises at least one spherical ceramic to engage the at least one groove to form a kinematic coupling between the bracket and the probe element to effect repeatable registration to test points disposed on the tester channels and to effect electrical isolation between the bracket and the probe element; and a magnetic attach/release mechanism cooperating with the bracket and probe element to allow for the separation of the probe element from the bracket whenever the probe element comes under a force that exceeds a predetermined value. 2. The probe assembly of claim 1 wherein the magnetic attach/release mechanism comprises at least one magnet that forms a magnetic coupling force with a spaced-apart ferromagnetic element. 3. The probe assembly of claim 2 wherein: the at least one magnet is disposed on the bracket; and the ferromagnetic element is disposed on the probe element. 4. The probe assembly of claim 1 wherein the bracket is formed with a U-shaped base and an upwardly projecting rectangular mounting flange, the base having one end mounted to the flange to define an L-shape. 5. The probe assembly of claim 4 wherein the at least one groove is a first groove, a second groove and a third groove and the U-shaped base includes a bottom side having the first groove, the second groove and the third groove defining a "wye" configuration. 6. The probe assembly of claim 5 wherein the at least one spherical ceramic is a first spherical ceramic, a second spherical ceramic and a third spherical ceramic and the probe element includes a flat plate comprising the first spherical ceramic, the second spherical ceramic and the third spherical ceramic, each spherical ceramic engaging a corresponding groove. 7. A probe assembly for use with a calibration/validation robot to calibrate/validate a plurality of semiconductor tester channels, the probe assembly comprising: a bracket configured to mount to a calibration/validation robot, the bracket including at least one spherical ceramic; a probe element to engage test points disposed on semiconductor tester channels, the probe element comprises at least one groove to engage the at least one spherical ceramic to form a kinematic coupling between the bracket and the probe element to effect repeatable registration to test points disposed on the tester channels and to effect isolation between the bracket and the probe element; and a magnetic attach/release mechanism cooperating with the bracket and probe element to allow for the separation of the probe element from the bracket whenever the probe element comes under a force that exceeds a predetermined value. 8. The probe assembly of claim 7 wherein the magnetic attach/release mechanism comprises at least one magnet that forms a magnetic coupling force with a spaced-apart ferromagnetic element. 9. The probe assembly of claim 8 wherein: the at least one magnet is disposed on the bracket; and the ferromagnetic element is disposed on the probe element. 10. The probe assembly of claim 7 wherein the bracket is formed with a U-shaped base and an upwardly projecting rectangular mounting flange, the base having one end mounted to the flange to define an L-shape. 11. The probe assembly of claim 10 wherein the at least one spherical ceramic is a first spherical ceramic, a second spherical ceramic and a third spherical ceramic and the U-shaped base includes a bottom side comprising the first spherical ceramic, the second spherical ceramic and the third spherical ceramic. 12. The probe assembly of claim 11 wherein the at least one groove is a first groove, a second groove and a third groove and the probe element includes a flat plate comprising the first groove, the second groove and the third groove defining a "wye" configuration, each spherical ceramic engaging a corresponding groove. 