A switch mechanism that can be attached to a conventional cordless power tool. The switch is attached to the power pack on the cordless tool and when turned on starts the tool thereby eliminating the need to keep constant pressure on the conventional pressure switch associated with such tools.
Claims We claim: 1. A cordless tool having a handle, a motor, a battery and a pressure switch for connecting said battery with said motor and operating said motor, and means for bypassing said pressure switch and for connecting said battery with said motor and operating said motor, means for mechanically connecting said means for bypassing said pressure switch to said cordless tool, and means for electrically connecting said means for bypassing said pressure switch to said battery and to said motor. 2. The cordless tool as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for bypassing said pressure switch is a switch that does not have to be held in the on position. 3. The cordless tool as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for bypassing said pressure switch is an on/off switch which remains in the on or off position once activated without any further action by a user. 4. The cordless tool as claimed in claim 3, wherein there is a second on/off switch electrically connected between said means for bypassing said pressure switch and said cordless tool. 5. The cordless tool as claimed in claim 4, wherein said second on/off switch is normally in an on condition, and said second on/off switch is moved to an off condition when said means for bypassing said pressure switch is connected to said tool. 6. The cordless tool as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for means for mechanically connecting said bypassing said pressure switch to said cordless tool is at least one strap. 7. The cordless tool as claimed in claim 6, wherein said at least one strap has hook and loop fasteners to secure said means for bypassing said pressure switch to said cordless tool. 8. The cordless tool as claimed in claim 6, wherein said at least one strap is secured to a base of said cordless tool. 9. The cordless tool as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for electrically connecting said means for bypassing said pressure switch to said battery and to said motor comprises a first connector on said means for bypassing said pressure switch, and a second connector on said cordless tool, and at least one electrical wire is connected between said first and second connector. 10. The cordless tool as claimed in claim 9, wherein said first and second connectors are BNC connectors. 11. The cordless tool as claimed in claim 9, wherein said first connector has a first and a second contact, and said second connector has a first and a second contact, and said first contact on said second connector is electrically connected to said battery, and said second contact on said second connector is electrically connected to said motor. 