A flexible vacuum seal pad structure capable of, for example, sealingly securing a bowed substrate to a finger apparatus or "endeffector" used to robotically engage and/or move the substrate from one processing station to another, or capable of securing a wafer to a base member or susceptor during processing of the wafer, i.e., functioning as a chuck. The flexible vacuum seal pad structure of the invention comprises a hollow central post or shank which serves as a mounting or retention mechanism, a flexible arch-like member connected at one end to the central post, and a peripheral ring structure connected to the opposite end of the arch member. The peripheral ring structure contacts and forms a seal with the underside of the wafer, while the arch member provides the flexibility to permit the ring structure to make or form a sealing contact to a bowed wafer, and the central post provides a mechanism through which the flexible vacuum seal pad structure may be secured to the base or finger.
Claims Having thus described the invention what is claimed is: 1. A substrate retention apparatus used to engage and/or move a substrate, including a bowed substrate, comprising a base member and two or more spaced apart flexible vacuum seal pad structures mounted thereon, each of said flexible vacuum seal pad structures comprising: a) a central post secured to said base member; b) a flexible and generally flat circular arch member centrally connected perpendicular to said central post and generally parallel to said substrate; and c) a peripheral ring member formed at the periphery of said flexible and generally flat circular arch member, and capable of contacting and forming a vacuum seal with said bowed substrate; wherein said flexibility of said arch member is sufficient to permit said peripheral ring member thereon to engage a bowed substrate to achieve the desired vacuum seal, but insufficient to result in amount of distortion of said peripheral ring sufficient to prevent formation of the desired vacuum seal. 2. The substrate retention apparatus of claim 1 wherein said base member comprises a finger of a robotic apparatus. 3. The substrate retention apparatus of claim 1 wherein said base member comprises a platform to which said bowed substrate is secured by said flexible vacuum seal pad structure during processing of said bowed substrate. 4. A substrate retention apparatus of a finger apparatus with a flexible vacuum seal pad structure thereon for sealingly securing a bowed substrate to said finger apparatus used to engage and/or move the substrate comprises: a) a plurality of flat fingers on a finger apparatus facing the undersurface of a substrate; b) a flexible vacuum seal pad structure comprising: i) a flexible peripheral ring member; ii) a central post downwardly depending from a central portion of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure; and iii) a flexible and generally flat circular member centrally and perpendicularity connected to said central post and having said flexible peripheral ring member formed at the periphery of said flexible circular member; wherein said flexible peripheral member, said central post, and said flexible circular member are all formed using an elastomeric material selected from the group consisting of an acetal, a polycarbonate, a polyimide, and a polyaryletherketone: c) at least one large bore in the upper surface of each of said flat fingers, said large bore capable of slidably receiving therein said peripheral ring member on said flexible vacuum seal pad structure; and d) a second bore, smaller in diameter than said large bore but concentrically positioned in the bottom of said large bore and extending a further distance downwardly into said flat finger, said second bore capable of rigidly receiving said central post of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure; whereby when said flexible vacuum seal pad structure encounters a bowed substrate, the peripheral ring member of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure is capable of movement independent of said finger to engage said bowed substrate to thereby establish a vacuum seal between the underside of said bowed substrate and said flexible vacuum seal pad structure. 5. A substrate retention apparatus comprising a substrate retention apparatus flexible vacuum seal pad structure used to engage and/or move a substrate, including a bowed substrate, said flexible vacuum seal pad structure comprising: a) a central post capable of being secured to said support base; b) a flexible arch member connected at one end thereof to said post; and c) a peripheral ring member secured to an opposite end of said flexible arch member, and capable of contacting and forming a vacuum seal with said bowed substrate; and d) a support base formed as a portion of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure by molding said support base, said central post, said flexible arch member, and said peripheral ring member as a monolithic structure; said flexible arch member having a flexibility sufficient to permit movement of said peripheral ring member relative to said central post of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure to permit said peripheral ring member to form a vacuum seal with said substrate, but insufficient to permit an amount of distortion of said peripheral ring member which would inhibit formation of a vacuum seal between said peripheral ring member and said substrate, and said support base formed as a portion of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure by molding said support base, said central post, said flexible arch member, and said peripheral ring member as a monolithic structure. 6. The substrate retention apparatus of claim 5 wherein said flexible vacuum seal pad structure is formed from a flexible material selected from the group consisting of an acetyl material, a polycarbonate material, a polyimide material, and a polyaryletherketone material. 7. A substrate retention apparatus comprising a substrate retention apparatus flexible vacuum seal pad structure used to engage and/or move a substrate, including a bowed substrate, said flexible vacuum seal pad structure comprising: a) a central post capable of being secured to said support base; b) a flexible arch member connected at one end thereof to said post; c) a peripheral ring member secured to an opposite end of said flexible arch member, and capable of contacting and forming a vacuum seal with said bowed substrate; and d) a support base formed as a portion of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure by molding said support base, said central post, said flexible arch member, and said peripheral ring member as a monolithic structure; said flexible arch member having a flexibility sufficient to permit movement of said peripheral ring member relative to said central post of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure to permit said peripheral ring member to form a vacuum seal with said substrate, but insufficient to permit an amount of distortion of said peripheral ring member which would inhibit formation of a vacuum seal between said peripheral ring member and said substrate, and said support base is formed as a portion of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure by machining said support base, said central post, said flexible arch member, and said peripheral ring member from a single block of material as a monolithic structure. 8. The substrate retention apparatus of claim 7 wherein a peripheral lip formed on the upper surface of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure is capable of making contact with said underside of said substrate even when said substrate is non-planar, due to the vertical movement of the peripheral portion of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure due to the central attachment of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure to said substrate retention apparatus. 9. The substrate retention apparatus of claim 7 wherein said flexible vacuum seal pad structure is formed from a flexible material selected from the group consisting of an acetyl material, a polycarbonate material, a polyimide material, and a polyaryletherketone material. 10. A substrate retention apparatus used to engage and/or move a substrate, including a bowed substrate, comprising one or more fingers, each of said one or more fingers having mounted thereon one or more flexible vacuum seal pad structures, each of said flexible vacuum seal pad structures comprising: a) a central post secured to one of said one or more fingers by forming said central post and said finger as a single piece; b) a flexible arch member connected at one end thereof to said post; and c) a peripheral ring member secured to an opposite end of said flexible arch member, and capable of contacting and forming a vacuum seal with said bowed substrate. 11. A substrate retention apparatus used to engage and/or move a substrate, including a bowed substrate, comprising one or more fingers, each of said one or more fingers having mounted thereon one or more flexible vacuum seal pad structures, each of said flexible vacuum seal pad structures comprising: a) a base member; b) a central post secured to said base by forming said central post and said finger as a single piece; c) a flexible arch member connected at one end thereof to said post; and d) a peripheral ring member secured to an opposite end of said flexible arch member, and capable of contacting said substrate and forming a vacuum seal with said bowed substrate. 12. The substrate retention apparatus of claim 11 wherein said flexible arch member has a flexibility sufficient to permit movement of said peripheral ring member relative to said central post of said flexible vacuum seal pad structure to permit said peripheral ring member to form a vacuum seal with said substrate, but insufficient to permit an amount of distortion of said peripheral ring member which would inhibit formation of a vacuum seal between said peripheral ring member and said substrate. 13. The flexible vacuum seal pad structure of claim 12 wherein said flexibility of said flexible arch member is controlled at least in part by the choice of material and the cross-sectional area of said flexible arch member. 14. A substrate retention apparatus used to engage and/or move a substrate, including a bowed substrate, comprising one or more fingers, each of said one or more fingers having mounted thereon two or more flexible vacuum seal pad structures, each of said flexible vacuum seal pad structures comprising: a) a central post secured to one of said one or more fingers; b) a flexible and generally flat circular member centrally and perpendicularity formed monolithically with said central post; and c) a peripheral ring member secured to the periphery of said flexible circular member, and capable of contacting and forming a vacuum seal with said bowed substrate. 15. The substrate retention apparatus of claim 14 wherein said one or more fingers each has three or more of said flexible vacuum seal pad structures mounted thereon. 16. The substrate retention apparatus of claim 15 wherein said central post, said flexible flat circular member, and said peripheral ring member are secured together by forming said central post, said flexible flat circular member, and said peripheral ring member as a monolithic structure. 17. A substrate retention apparatus used to engage and/or move a substrate, including a bowed substrate, comprising one or more fingers, each of said one or more fingers having mounted thereon two or more flexible vacuum seal pad structures, each of said flexible vacuum seal pad structures comprising: a) a base member; b) a central post secured to said base member; c) a flexible flat circular member centrally connected to said central post; and d) a peripheral ring member formed monolithically at the periphery of said flexible flat circular member, and capable of contacting said substrate and forming a vacuum seal with said bowed substrate. 18. The substrate retention apparatus of claim 17 wherein said one or more fingers each have three or more of said flexible vacuum seal pad structures mounted thereon. 19. The substrate retention apparatus of claim 17 wherein flexible vacuum seal pad structures comprising said central post, said flexible flat circular member, and said peripheral ring member are secured together by forming said central post, said flexible flat circular member, and said peripheral ring member as a monolithic structure. 