A system for performing minimally invasive cardiac procedures. The system includes a pair of surgical instruments that are coupled to a pair of robotic arms. The instruments have end effectors that can be manipulated to hold and suture tissue. The robotic arms are coupled to a pair of master handles by a controller. The handles can be moved by the surgeon to produce a corresponding movement of the end effectors. The movement of the handles is scaled so that the end effectors have a corresponding movement that is different, typically smaller, than the movement performed by the hands of the surgeon. The scale factor is adjustable so that the surgeon can control the resolution of the end effector movement. The movement of the end effector can be controlled by an input button, so that the end effector only moves when the button is depressed by the surgeon. The input button allows the surgeon to adjust the position of the handles without moving the end effector, so that the handles can be moved to a more comfortable position. The robotic arm may contain a passive joint that provides an additional degree of freedom. Additionally, the system may include a disconnect input device that decouples the arm from an input device such as the handles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical robotic system that allows a surgeon to control an endoscope that has a tip, comprising: a robotic arm that has at least three degrees of freedom and which can move the endoscope within a robotic arm coordinate system; a monitor that can be coupled to the endoscope and display an image; an input device that creates an input command in response to an instruction from the surgeon to move the endoscope tip within an image coordinate system and; a controller that is coupled to said input device and said robotic arm, said controller receives said input command from said input device, transforms the input command in the image coordinate system to a movement of said robotic arm in the robotic arm coordinate system, and provides a output command to move said robotic arm. 2. The system as recited in claim 1 wherein said controller transforms the input command in the image coordinate system to an intermediate coordinate system and transforms from the intermediate coordinate system to the robotic coordinate system. 3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said input device is a foot pedal. 4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said robotic arm includes a mechanism to spin the endoscope. 5. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said robotic arm has an active joint. 6. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said robotic arm is enclosed by a sterile bag. 7. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said robotic arm has a pair of passive joints. 8. A method to allow a surgeon to control a tip of the endoscope, the endoscope being coupled to a monitor that displays an image, comprising: coupling the endoscope to a robotic arm; generating a first input command in response to an instruction from a surgeon to move the endoscope tip within an image coordinate system; transforming the first input command in the image coordinate system to a movement of the robotic arm in a robotic arm coordinate system; and generating an output command to move the robotic arm. 9. The method as recited in claim 8, further comprising transforming the input command in the image coordinate system to an intermediate coordinate system and transforming from the intermediate coordinate system to the robotic arm coordinate system. 10. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the output command spins the endoscope. 11. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the output command causes the endoscope to pivot about a pivot point. 12. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the output command moves the robotic arm in the robotic arm coordinate system and the endoscope tip in the image coordinate system. 