The invention provides a dryer for a printer such as a print on demand wallpaper printer. The dryer has a compartment with an opening across the top. The opening is in a path of a moving media web which is printed on by the printer. The opening is optionally covered by a door. A source of heated air is located above the opening and blows heated air downwardly onto the door, or the opening if the door is open. In general, the door covers the opening and acts to support the web when the door is closed. When the door is open, the moving web can enter the compartment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A dryer for a printer, the dryer comprising: a compartment with a top opening for receiving a media web fed from the printer, the top opening being configured so that the media web is received as a suspended partial loop within the compartment; and a source of heated air located above the top opening for blowing heated air into the compartment through the top opening to dry printing on the suspended partial loop of the media web. 2. A dryer as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the door covers the entire opening and acts to support the web when the door is closed. 3. A dryer as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the door pivots along an axis transverse to the path to reveal the opening. 4. A dryer as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the door is operated by a motor that operates a spool; the spool winding and releasing a cord which operates the door. 5. A dryer as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a preheater in the path but located before the opening. 6. A dryer as claimed in claim 5, wherein: the preheater is in the same plane as the door. 7. A dryer as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the source of heated air comprises a blower which feeds a stream of air into a plenum. 8. A dryer as claimed in claim 7, further comprising: a temperature sensor in the plenum. 9. A dryer as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the compartment has an air vent which supplies a recirculation duct. 10. A dryer as claimed in claim 9, wherein: the recirculation duct extends from the compartment to an intake of an air supply that feeds the compartment. 11. A dryer as claimed in claim 10, wherein: the recirculation duct is a tube which extends upwardly from the compartment and includes an exhaust vent at an upper extremity. 12. A dryer as claimed in claim 7, wherein: the source of heated air further comprises a second blower which feeds a stream of air into the plenum. 13. A dryer as claimed in claim 7, wherein: the plenum has a heating element within it. 14. A dryer as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the compartment has two vents, each one supplying vented air to a separate recirculation duct, the ducts located on opposite sides of the compartment, each duct supplying recirculated air to a source of heated air. 15. A dryer as claimed in claim 14, wherein: the source of heated air is a pair of blowers which direct air into a plenum. 16. A dryer as claimed in claim 15, wherein: the blowers are located above the plenum. 17. A dryer as claimed in claim 7, wherein: the dryer is located within an on-demand wallpaper printer and is controlled by a processor within the printer. 18. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead located in the path followed by the web such that the media is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.02 square meters per second (775 square feet per hour). 19. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full-width digital color printhead located in the path followed by the web such that the media is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.1 square meters per second (3875 square feet per hour). 20. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead located in the path followed by the web such that the media is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.2 square meters per second (7750 square feed per hour). 21. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead located in the path followed by the web and the printhead has more than 7680 nozzles. 22. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead located in the path followed by the web and the printhead has more than 20,000 nozzles. 23. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead located in the path followed by the web and the printhead has more than 100,000 nozzles. 24. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead located in the path followed by the web and the printhead has more than 250,000 nozzles. 25. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead located in the path followed by the web and the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 5 picoliters. 26. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead located in the path followed by the web and the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 3 picoliters. 27. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead located in the path followed by the web and the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 1.5 picoliters. 28. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is a self container printer for producing rolls of wallpaper, comprising: a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media cartridge loading area to a winding area; a full width digital color printhead located in the media path; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; and the winding area adapted to removably retain a core and wind onto it, wall paper produced by the printer. 29. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer uses a media cartridge, comprising: a case in which a roll of blank media may be deployed; the case having two halves, hinged together, an area between the two halves, when closed, defining a media supply slot; and the case having internally and adjacent to the slot, a pair of rollers, at least one of the rollers being a drier roller which is supported at each end, by the case, for rotation by an external motor. 30. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is adapted to produce rolls of wallpaper for carrying in a consumer tote, the tote comprising: a disposable exterior in which is formed a main access flap and a pair of core access openings; and the tote having an interior in which is located a disposable core which is aligned with the access openings. 31. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a transverse cutter, the transverse cutter comprising: a chassis having end plates; the end plates being separated to allow a web of media to pass between them; the end plates supporting between them a cutting blade; and the blade supported at each end to perform a cutting motion which begins on one side of the web and finishes on an opposite side of the web. 32. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a slitting mechanism, the slitting mechanism comprising: a chassis having end plates; the end plates being separated by a transverse portion of the chassis to allow a web of media to pass between them; one or more rotating slitting shafts extending between the end plates, each shaft having one or more slitters arranged along its length, each slitter having a cutting edge; and the slitting mechanism selectively engageable to either enter or not enter a path followed by the web according to an input provided by an operator of the printer. 33. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer comprises: a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a winding area; a printhead located in the media path; a processor which accepts operator inputs from one or more input devices which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; and the winding area adapted to removably retain a core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer wherein, the length and design of the roll are determined by the operator inputs. 34. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer prints wallpaper onto a web of media using a method comprising the steps of: utilizing an on-demand printer comprising a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a winding area, there being a printhead located in the media path, a processor which accepts operator inputs from one or more input devices; using one or more input devices which communicate with the processor to capture data from an operator regarding a specification for an operator's requirements; using the processor to operatively control the printer according to the data; and printing a single roll of wallpaper, on demand, according to a selected pattern. 35. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is used in a method for operating a wallpaper printing business, the method comprising the steps of: utilizing an on-demand printer comprising a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a printhead and from the printhead to a dispensing slot; using one or more printer input devices which communicate with a processor to capture data regarding one or more customer's requirements; the data comprising at least a customer selected pattern; printing a roll of wallpaper, onto a web of blank media, on demand, according to the selected pattern; and charging a customer for the roll. 36. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is used in a method for operating a wallpaper printing franchise, the method comprising the steps of: providing a to franchisees, an on-demand printer comprising a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a printhead and from the printhead to a dispensing slot; the printer having one or more printer input devices which communicate with a processor to capture data regarding one or more customer requirements, the data comprising at least a customer selected pattern; providing the franchise with a collection of patterns in a digital storage medium that can be read by the printer; enabling the franchisee to print a roll of wallpaper, onto a web of blank media, on demand, according to the selected pattern; and obtaining or attempting to obtain a fee from the franchisee. 37. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer comprises: a frame in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a winding area; a printhead located across the media path; one or more input devices for capturing operator instructions; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; and the winding area adapted to removably retain a core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer. 38. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer prints wallpaper onto a web of media using a method comprising the steps of: utilizing an on-demand printer comprising a cabinet in which is located a media path, there being a full width printhead located across the media path, there being a processor which accepts operator inputs from one or more input devices and which controls the printer; using one or more input devices which communicate with the processor to capture data from an operator regarding a specification; running the printer according to the data; printing a single roll of wallpaper, on demand, according to a selected pattern and configuration; changing the pattern according to a new datum from an operator; and then printing a new roll onto the same web. 39. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 adapted for drying a moving web of media in a printer such as a wallpaper printer using a method comprising the steps of: loading the web in a path that traverses a compartment in a dryer within the printer, the compartment having an opening across the top; allowing the moving web to descend into the compartment, as required; and blowing heated air from above the opening. 40. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is adapted to be supplied with a media web via a method comprising the steps of: opening a reusable case; placing into the case a core onto which has been located a supply roll of blank wallpaper media; supporting the core for rotation within the case; leading a free edge of the roll between a pair of rollers and past an edge of the open case; then with the rollers located within the case and on either side of the web, closing the case and loading it into a printer. 41. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a printhead assembly which prints onto a moving web that follows a path, the assembly comprising: a full width printhead located across the path; the printhead comprising a color printhead which is at least as wide as the web; the printhead being supplied with a number of different inks which are remote from the printhead and which supply the printhead through tubes. 42. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer comprises: a housing in which is located a media path which extends from a blank media intake to a wallpaper exit slot; a multi-color roll width removable printhead located in the housing and across the media path; the printhead being supplied by separate ink reservoirs, the reservoirs connected to the printhead by a an ink supply harness, thee being a disconnect coupling between the reservoirs and the printhead; one or more input devices for capturing operator instructions; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll. 43. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is adapted to produce rolls of wallpaper for carrying in a consumer tote, the tote comprising: a disposable exterior in which is formed a main access flap and a pair of core access openings; the tote having an interior in which is located a disposable core which is aligned with the access openings; both openings exposing a moulded coupling, one coupling attached to each end of the core, at least one of the couplings being a driven coupling and adapted to engage a driving spindle that rotates the core. 44. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a removable printhead assembly which prints onto a moving web, the assembly comprising: a full width stationary printhead located on a rail along which it slides for service and removal; a number of replaceable ink reservoirs which supply the printhead with different inks; the printhead comprising a color printhead which is at least as wide as the web; and the printhead being supplied with the different inks through the tubes which can be disconnected so the printhead may be removed. 45. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is a self threading printer comprising: a media loading area adapted to support a media cartridge in a position so that a media supply slot of the cartridge is closely adjacent to a pilot guide; a cabinet housing a media path which extends from the pilot guide to a printed media dispensing slot; a printhead located across the media path; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; a motor within the cabinet for advancing a media web out of the media cartridge; and one or more other motors adapted to urge the media along the path and out of the slot. 46. A dryer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is adapted to produce wallpaper on-demand via a method comprising the steps of: utilizing an on-demand printer comprising a cabinet in which is located a media path which passes a printhead on the way to a dispensing slot; selecting a pattern and a configuration; using one or more printer input devices which communicate with a processor to input the pattern and the configuration; and printing a roll of wallpaper, onto a web of blank media, on demand, according to the selected pattern and configuration. 