A system and method are described that use impulse radio technology to enhance the capabilities of a robot. In one embodiment, a system, a robot and a method are provided that use the communication capabilities of impulse radio technology to help a control station better control the actions of the robot. In another embodiment, a system, a robot and a method are provided that use the communication, position and/or radar capabilities of impulse radio technology to help a control station better control the actions of a robot in order to, for example, monitor and control the environment within a building.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling a robot, comprising: attaching, to said robot, a first ultra wideband impulse radio unit; determining a position of said robot based upon the interaction of said first ultra wideband impulse radio and at least two of a plurality of reference ultra wideband impulse radio units; and controlling the actions of said robot based on said position. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: enabling said first ultra wideband impulse radio unit to receive sensor information from at least one sensor, wherein the actions of said robot are controlled based on said position and said sensor information. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said sensor information is in video form. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein said as least one sensor monitors the environment within a building. 5. The method claim 1, wherein said position is determined by at least one of said robot and one of said plurality of reference ultra wideband impulse radio units. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, at a control station, impulse radio signals from said first ultra wideband impulse radio unit containing information, wherein the control station uses at least a portion of the received information and said position to control the actions of said robot. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said position is determined by at least one of said robot, said control station, and one of said plurality of reference ultra wideband impulse radio units. 8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: enabling said control station to receive sensor information from at least one sensor, wherein the actions of said robot are controlled based on said position and said sensor information. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said first ultra wideband impulse radio unit further includes an ultra wideband radar capability. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: detecting an object using said ultra wideband radar capability. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said object is one of a land mine and a person. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the location of said object is determined using said ultra wideband radar capability. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said location is determined relative to said position. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said robot is one of a toy, a security robot, an industrial robot, a welder, a manufacturer, a micro airplane, a micro ground vehicle, a lawn mower, a vacuum sweeper, a land mine, and an unmanned vehicle. 15. A system comprising: a robot including a first ultra widebend impulse radio unit; a plurality of reference ultra wideband impulse radio units, at least two of which interact with said first ultra wideband impulse radio to determine a position of said robot that can be used to control the actions of said robot. 16. The system of claim 15, further comprising: at least one sensor interfaced with said robot, said at least one sensor providing sensor information that can be used in conjunction with said position to control the actions of said robot. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said sensor information is in video form. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein said as least one sensor monitors the environment within a building. 19. The system of claim 15, wherein said position is determined by at least one of said robot and one of said plurality of reference ultra wideband impulse radio units. 20. The system of claim 15, further comprising: a control station configured to receive impulse radio signals from said first ultra wideband impulse radio unit containing information that can be used in conjunction with said position to control the actions of said robot. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein said position is determined by at least one of said robot, said control station, and one of said plurality of reference ultra wideband impulse radio units. 22. The system of claim 20, further comprising: at least one sensor interfaced with said control station, said at least one sensor providing sensor information that can be used in conjunction with said position to control the actions of said robot. 23. The system of claim 15, wherein said first ultra wideband impulse radio unit further includes an ultra wideband radar capability. 24. The system of claim 15, wherein said robot is one of a toy, a security robot, an industrial robot, a welder, a manufacturer, a micro airplane, a micro ground vehicle, a lawn mower, a vacuum sweeper, a land mine, and an unmanned vehicle. 