A dynamic sortation system and method. The invention is preferably utilized in a robotic containerization system having a number of locations for containers such as carts or pallets. Each location may be assigned a speed of loading rating that represents the time needed for a robot to load an item to a location. The system may be preprogrammed with a simplified, base scheme of destinations. After these initial steps, the system reads destination codes from each of the plurality of items in a load of items sent to the system for sortation. The system may store the destination code of each read item in a historical database. The system then determines whether the read destination code is assigned a location. If the destination code is assigned a location, the item is loaded in a container at the assigned location. If the destination code is not assigned a location, the system determines whether to assign the destination code a location based on whether the destination code is in the scheme of destinations, the projected or historical number of items having the same destination code, and the speed of loading rating for each location.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of sorting a plurality of items by destination, the method comprising: defining a number of locations, where each location is a position for a container; assigning each location a speed of loading rating; creating a scheme of destinations; reading a destination code from each of the plurality of items; determining whether the destination code from one of the plurality of items is assigned a location; if the destination code is assigned a location, loading the one of the plurality of items in a container at the assigned location; if the destination code is not assigned a location, determining whether to assign the unassigned destination code a location based on whether the unassigned destination code is in the scheme of destinations, a projected or historical number of items having a same destination, and the speed of loading rating for each location. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: recirculating an item when a determination is made not to assign the unassigned destination code a location. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: rejecting an item when a determination is made not to assign the unassigned destination code a location. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein determining whether to assign the unassigned destination code is further based on reviewing a set of restrictions. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the set of restrictions includes a type of container in which items are loaded. 6. A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the set of restrictions includes a work zone in which containers for items are located. 7. A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the set of restrictions includes a limit on the number of locations to be assigned to any one destination. 8. A method as claimed in claim 2, further comprising tracking an amount of items in recirculation. 