A substrate positioning system is provided to facilitate the performing of certain processing on the substrate, such as ion implantation. The system comprises a linkage rotatably mounted to a base and an end effector member rotatably mounted to the linkage and configured for receiving a substrate. Through the synchronized rotation of the linkage about the base and the end effector member about the linkage, the system acts as a robotic unit to move the substrate to the desired location for performing processing thereon. In another aspect, the base is movable along an axis such that the system maintains a constant distance of travel for an ion beam incident on the substrate as the linkage and end effector member travel in a curved path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate positioning system, comprising: a base; a linkage coupled to the base for rotation about a first rotary axis; and an end effector member for supporting a substrate and coupled for rotation to the linkage about a second rotary axis that is parallel to the first rotary axis; wherein rotation of the linkage and counter-rotation of the end effector member translates the substrate through an ion beam such that a surface of the substrate scans through the ion beam at a constant angle of incidence. 2. The positioning system of claim 1, further comprising a motor mounted within one or both of (a) a rotary joint coupling the linkage to the base and (b) a rotary joint coupling the end effector member to the linkage. 3. The positioning system of claim 1, wherein the linkage and the end effector member are mechanically coupled to effect the counter-rotation in response to the rotation. 4. The positioning system of claim 1, further comprising a logic circuit to control the rotation of the linkage and the counter-rotation of the end effector member. 5. The positioning system of claim 1, further comprising a processor to control the rotation of the linkage and the counter-rotation of the end effector member. 6. The positioning system of claim 1, wherein the constant angle of incidence is an angle within a range of zero to ninety degrees. 7. The positioning system of claim 1, wherein the first rotary axis is fixed in position along a z-axis, wherein the first and second rotary axes are along an x-axis, and wherein the ion beam substantially travels along a y-axis. 8. The positioning system of claim 7, wherein the base is configured for movement along the y-axis such that the ion beam travels a substantially constant distance to the surface. 9. The positioning system of claim 8, wherein the movement is determined by: wherein K is a linear distance of travel of the base to maintain the constant distance, E1 is y-axis distance measured from the first rotary axis to an ion beam impact point on the surface when the substrate is positioned at a desired distance from an ion beam output location, A is a length of the end effector member from the second rotary axis to the substrate affixed thereto plus the thickness of the substrate, B is a length of the linkage from the first rotary axis to the second rotary axis, C is z-axis distance from a reference x-y plane to the first rotary axis, D is z-axis distance from the reference x-y plane to the ion beam output location, .theta. is an angle between the linkage and the z-axis at the first rotary axis, positively measured above the z-axis, .GAMMA. is an angle between the end effector member and the z-axis at the second rotary axis, positively measured above the z-axis, and .alpha. is the angle of incidence, measured between the substrate surface and the z-axis at the ion beam impact point and having a fixed value between 0 and 90 degrees. 10. A method of positioning a substrate for ion implantation, comprising: directing an ion beam towards a substrate positioned on an end effector member; and translating the substrate past the ion beam by: rotating a linkage coupled to a base about a first rotary axis while counter-rotating the end effector member coupled to the linkage about a second rotary axis, to maintain a constant angle of incidence of the ion beam upon a surface of the substrate. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein one or both of the steps of rotating and counter-rotating comprising utilizing a motor within a rotary joint. 12. The method of claim 10, the step of counter-rotating the end effector member comprising utilizing mechanical coupling between the linkage and the end effector member. 13. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of adjusting at least one of an ion beam current, a duty cycle of an ion beam scan, and a mechanical scan velocity to produce a constant dose of ions across the surface. 14. The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps of: calculating a required movement of the base to maintain a constant travel distance for the ion beam, determined by: wherein K is a linear distance of travel of the base to maintain the constant distance, E1 is y-axis distance measured from the first rotary axis to an ion beam impact point on the surface when the substrate is positioned at a desired distance from an ion beam output location, A is a length of the end effector member from the second rotary axis to the substrate affixed thereto plus the thickness of the substrate, B is a length of the linkage from the first rotary axis to the second rotary axis, C is z-axis distance from a reference x-y plane to the first rotary axis, D is z-axis distance from the reference x-y plane to the ion beam output location, .theta. is an angle between the linkage and the z-axis at the first rotary axis, positively measured above the z-axis, .GAMMA. is an angle between the end effector member and the z-axis at the second rotary axis, positively measured above the z-axis, and .alpha. is the angle of incidence, measured between the substrate surface and the z-axis at the ion beam impact point and having a fixed value between 0 and 90 degrees; and moving the base along the y-axis by the amount K, such that the ion beam travels a substantially constant distance to the surface. 15. A substrate positioning system, comprising: a linkage coupled to a base for rotation in a y-z plane about a first rotary axis that is fixed along a z-axis; and an end effector member for supporting a substrate thereon and coupled to the linkage for counter-rotation about a second rotary axis; the rotation and the counter-rotation being controlled to (a) scan a surface of the substrate through an ion beam that travels generally in a y-axis and that scans in an x-y plane and (b) maintain a constant angle of incidenct between the surface and the ion beam, to facilitate ion implantation of the substrate. 16. The substrate positioning system of claim 15, the base configured to move along the y-axis to maintain a constant travel distance for the ion beam, to an impact point on the substrate. 