The present invention pertains to processing system use for instruction and simulated training. Observers evaluate the movements of user controllable images making interactive, personal, idiosyncratic, simulated movements. The invention includes the use of individual hand held devices, personal display appliances, personal computers and other processing systems communicating displays of user controllable images to other processing systems over local area and wide area networks and by means of a variety of interfaces, networks, servers and/or intraprocessing system means. Instruction and simulated training of observers is accomplished through viewing and evaluating user controllable image movements including, without limitation, individual drill, cooperation and opposition.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of simulated training for at least one observer to evaluate at least one user using at least one processing system having at least one processor displayable user controllable image for performing interactive, personal and idiosyncratic simulated movements, communicated to at least one other processing system, said method comprised of: generating, storing and maintaining in a memory means of said at least one processing system, said at least one processor displayable user controllable image controlled by said at least one user to perform a sequence of movements; providing to said at least one processing system display means to display said at least one user controllable image for performing interactive, personal and idiosyncratic simulated movements; providing to said at least one processing system input means to receive inputs from said at least one user to control said at least one user controllable image for performing said simulated movements; providing to said at least one processing system input means to receive inputs from said at least one observer evaluating said at least one user controlling said at least one user controllable image for performing said simulated movements; constructing said at least one user controllable image to make said simulated movements controlled by said input means from sad at least one user without requiring said at least one user to make corresponding physical movements; recording and maintaining, in said memory means, a record of said user controllable image movements such that said record is modified to represent said movements as controlled by said input means; recording and maintaining, in said memory means, a record of said observer's evaluations of said user controllable image movements; providing to said at least one processing system output means to send outputs of said controllable image movements from said memory means to said display means; and providing to said at least one processing system communications means to send and receive said inputs and outputs to said at least one other processing system thereby said at least one observer, records on said memory means said observer's evaluation of said at least one user performing said simulated movements by using said at least one user controllable image to interact with at least one other user controllable image from said at least one other processing system displayed on said display means of said at least one other processing system. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said communication means of said at least one processing system is a modem, a universal serial bus, parallel port, Ethernet, optical fiber or wireless interfaces. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said communication means of said at least one processing system are interconnected by dedicated or switched networks. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said communication means of said at least one processing system are interconnected by at least one of point to point, local area or wide area networks. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least one of said processing system means communicates with said at least one other of said processing system means. 