The present invention relates to electroactive polymers that are pre-strained to improve conversion from electrical to mechanical energy. When a voltage is applied to electrodes contacting a pre-strained polymer, the polymer deflects. This deflection may be used to do mechanical work. The pre-strain improves the mechanical response of an electroactive polymer. The present invention also relates to actuators including an electroactive polymer and mechanical coupling to convert deflection of the polymer into mechanical work. The present invention further relates to compliant electrodes that conform to the shape of a polymer. The present invention provides methods for fabricating electromechanical devices including one or more electroactive polymers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An actuator for converting electrical energy into displacement in a first direction, the actuator comprising: at least one transducer, each transducer comprising: at least two electrodes, and a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field, wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus below about 100 MPa; and a flexible frame coupled to the polymer, the frame providing mechanical assistance to improve displacement in the first direction. 2. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the mechanical assistance comprises a set of springs. 3. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the mechanical assistance changes the resting position of the actuator. 4. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the polymer comprises pre-strain. 5. The actuator of claim 4 wherein the polymer comprises pre-strain in a second direction which improves displacement in the first direction. 6. The actuator of claim 5 wherein the actuator contracts in the second direction in response to the electric field. 7. The actuator of claim 6 wherein the flexible frame couples polymer deflection in the second direction into displacement in the first direction. 8. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the polymer has a compliance in one direction greater than in a second. 9. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the polymer has an aspect ratio of at least 4:1. 10. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the polymer has a dielectric constant between about 2 and about 20. 11. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the polymer comprises one of a silicone rubber and an acrylic. 12. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the polymer has a thickness between about 1 micrometer and 2 millimeters. 13. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus between about 0.05 MPa and about 10 MPa. 14. An actuator for converting electrical energy into displacement in a first direction, the actuator comprising: at least one transducer, each transducer comprising: at least two electrodes, and a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field, wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus below about 100 MPa; and an output member coupled to a second portion of the polymer. 15. The actuator of claim 14 wherein the transducer is included in an artificial muscle. 16. The actuator of claim 14, further comprising: a support structure for securing the portion of the polymer at a first position wherein the portion of the polymer is stretched from an initial surface area to a first surface area to improve the mechanical response of the transducer when it deflects from the first position to a second position and wherein the support structure is for supplying a force to the stretched portion of the polymer that prevents the stretched portion of the polymer from returning from the first surface area to about its initial surface area. 17. The actuator of claim 16 wherein a ratio of the first surface area to the initial surface area is in the range of about 1.3 to 50. 18. An actuator for converting electrical energy into mechanical energy, the actuator comprising: a transducer comprising: at least two electrodes and a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a first portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field provided by the at least two electrodes, wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus below about 100 MPa; and a flexible member having fixed end and a free end coupled to the polymer. 19. The actuator of claim 18 wherein the flexible member is a second transducer. 20. The actuator of claim 18 wherein the free end has two degrees of freedom. 21. The actuator of claim 18 wherein the flexible member has a stiffness greater than the polymer. 22. The actuator of claim 18 further comprising a bias pressure added to a first side of the polymer. 23. The actuator of claim 22 wherein the transducer is included in an artificial muscle. 24. The actuator of claim 18 further comprising: a support structure for securing the portion of the polymer at a first position wherein the portion of the polymer is stretched from an initial surface area to a first surface area to improve the mechanical response of the transducer when it deflects from the first position to a second position and wherein the support structure is for supplying a force to the stretched portion of the polymer that prevents the stretched portion of the polymer from returning from the first surface area to about its initial surface area. 25. The actuator of claim 18 wherein a ratio of the first surface area to the initial surface area is in the range of about 1.5 to 50. 26. The actuator of claim 25 wherein the polymer comprises pre-strain in a second direction which improves displacement in the first direction. 27. The actuator of claim 18 wherein the actuator is used to provide linear output. 28. An actuator for converting electrical energy into mechanical energy, the actuator comprising: a transducer comprising: a least two electrodes and a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a first portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field provided by the least two electrodes, wherein the electroactive polymer has an elastic modulus below about 100 MPa; and a body having at least one degree of freedom between a first body portion and a second body portion, the body including the transducer attached to the first body portion and the second body portion and a first clamp attached to the first body portion and a second clamp attached to the second body portion. 29. The actuator of claim 28 wherein the polymer is rolled. 30. The actuator of claim 28 wherein the first and second clamps are electrostatic clamps. 31. The actuator of claim 28 wherein the polymer has a dielectric constant between about 2 and about 20. 32. The actuator of claim 28 wherein the polymer comprises one of a silicone rubber and an acrylic. 33. The actuator of claim 28 wherein the polymer has a thickness between about 1 micrometer and 2 millimeters. 34. The actuator of claim 28 wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus between about 0.05 MPa and about 10 MPa. 35. An actuator for converting electrical energy into mechanical energy, the actuator comprising: a transducer comprising: at least two electrodes and a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a first porting of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field provided by the at least two electrodes, wherein the electroactive polymer has an elastic modulus below about 100 MPa; and a frame attached to a second portion of the polymer, the frame comprising at least one circular hole, wherein the first portion deflects out of the plane of the at least one circular hole in response to the change in electric field. 36. The actuator of claim 35 further comprising a bias pressure added to a first side of the polymer. 37. The actuator of claim 36 wherein the bias pressure is provided by a swelling agent. 38. The actuator of claim 35 wherein the actuator is included in a pump. 39. The actuator of claim 35 wherein the first portion deflects at least partially through the hole. 40. The actuator of claim 39 wherein the first portion deflects at least partially through the hole to a height greater than half the hole diameter. 41. A transducer for converting from electrical energy to mechanical energy, the transducer comprising: at least two electrodes; a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the polymer to deflect from a first position with a first surface area to a second position with a second surface area in response to a change in electric field, wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus below about 100 MPa; a support structure for securing the portion of the polymer at the first position wherein the portion of the polymer is stretched from an initial surface area to the first surface area to improve the mechanical response of the transducer when it deflects from the first position to the second position and wherein the support structure is for supplying a force to the stretched portion of the polymer that prevents the stretched portion of the polymer from returning from the first surface area to about its initial surface area and wherein a ratio of the first surface area to the initial surface area is in the range of about 1.5 to 50. 42. The transducer of claim 41 further comprising a barrier layer. 43. The transducer of claim 41 further comprising a stiff member attached to a portion of the polymer. 44. The transducer of claim 43 wherein the stiff member is included in a flexible frame. 45. The transducer of claim 41 further comprising a second polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the second polymer to deflect in response to a second change in electric field and the second polymer is coupled to the polymer. 46. The transducer of claim 45 wherein the second polymer is mechanically coupled to the first polymer such that they have the same deflection. 47. An actuator for converting electrical energy into displacement in a first direction, the actuator comprising: at least one transducer, each transducer comprising: at least two electrodes, and a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field, wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus below about 100 MPa; and at least one stiff member coupled to the at least one transducer, the at least one stiff member substantially preventing displacement in a second direction. 48. The actuator of claim 47 wherein the polymer has a compliance in one direction greater than in a second. 49. The actuator of claim 47 wherein the polymer has a dielectric constant between about 2 and about 20. 50. The actuator of claim 1 further comprising a second electrode pair coupled to a second portion of the polymer arranged in a manner which causes the second portion of the polymer to deflect in response to the change in the electric field and an output member coupled to the location wherein the location is between the portion and the second portion of the polymer. 51. An actuator for converting electrical energy into displacement in a first direction, the actuator comprising: at least one transducer, each transducer comprising: at least two electrodes, and a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field, wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus below about 100 MPa; and a frame coupled to the polymer wherein the frame and the polymer are arranged in a manner which causes a location on the polymer to deflect within a plane in response to the change in the electric field. 52. The actuator of claim 51 wherein the polymer has a compliance in one direction greater than in a second. 53. The actuator of claim 51 wherein the polymer has a dielectric constant between about 2 and about 20. 54. The actuator of claim 51 wherein the polymer has a thickness between about 1 micrometer and 2 millimeters. 