A multi-paned fenestration unit in which the glass panes are manufactured directly into the support structure without first manufacturing an insulated glass unit. The support structure is designed to provide the structural support for the glass panes without a separate spacer.
Claims We claim: 1. A fenestration unit comprising: a first glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion and the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion; a second glass pane having an inside surface and an outside surface, the outside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the inside surface having a border portion and an inner portion, and the inside surface of the first glass pane facing the inside surface of the second glass pane; and a support structure comprising: a first receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the inside surface of the first glass pane and the border portion of the outside surface of the first glass pane, the first receiving surface including a first raised portion that contacts the inside surface of the first glass pane; a second receiving surface for receiving the border portion of the outside surface of the second glass pane and the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane, the second receiving surface including a second raised portion that contacts the inside surface of the second glass pane; and a vapor barrier placed in contact with the first receiving surface and the second receiving surface. 2. The fenestration unit of claim 1 wherein the support structure further comprises an interior surface, between the first receiving surface and the second receiving surface, wherein there is a space between the first glass pane and the second glass pane, and the fenestration unit further comprises the vapor barrier located adjacent to the interior surface of the support structure to prevent outgassing from the support structure into the space. 3. The fenestration unit of claim 2 wherein the vapor barrier is attached to the interior surface of the support structure by an adhesive. 4. The fenestration unit of claim 2 where the vapor barrier comprises stainless steel. 5. The fenestration unit of claim 2 wherein the vapor barrier comprises aluminum. 6. The fenestration unit of claim 2 wherein the vapor barrier is a coating that is sprayed onto the interior surface of the support structure. 7. The fenestration unit of claim 2 wherein the vapor barrier is plastic. 8. The fenestration unit of claim 2 wherein the vapor barrier is ceramic. 9. The fenestration unit of claim 8 wherein the vapor barrier is in adhesive contact with the first receiving surface and the second receiving surface. 10. A method of manufacturing a fenestration unit, the fenestration unit including a first glass pane and a second glass pane each comprising an inside surface, an outside surface and an edge; each of the inside surfaces having a border portion and an inner portion and each of the outside surfaces having a border portion and an inner portion, the method comprising: constructing a support structure including a first receiving surface and a second receiving surface; placing a vapor barrier in contact with the first receiving surface and in contact with the second receiving surface; depositing a first primary sealant on at least a portion of the vapor barrier in contact with the first receiving surface; depositing a second primary sealant on at least a portion of the vapor barrier in the contact with the second receiving surface; placing a first glass pane onto the first primary sealant on the first receiving surface; placing a second glass pane onto the second primary sealant on the second receiving surface; depositing a first secondary sealant between the border portion of the outside surface of the first glass pane and the first receiving surface, wherein the first glass pane is structurally supported in its entirety by the first receiving surface; and depositing a second secondary sealant between the border portion of the outside surface of the second glass pane and the second receiving surface wherein the second glass pane is structurally supported in its entirety by the second receiving surface. 11. A method of manufacturing a fenestration unit, the fenestration unit including a first glass pane and a second glass pane each comprising an inside surface, an outside surface and an edge; each of the inside surfaces having a border portion and an inner portion and each of the outside surfaces having a border portion and an inner portion, the method comprising: constructing a plurality of support structure members, each support structure member having a first receiving surface, a second receiving surface, a first end, and a second end; depositing a first secondary sealant on the first receiving surfaces of each of the plurality of support structure members; depositing a second secondary sealant on the second receiving surfaces of each of the plurality of support structure members; positioning the first and second glass panes on the first and second receiving surfaces respectively; and fastening each end of each of the plurality of support structure members to exactly one end of a different one of the plurality of support structure members such that the plurality of support structure members form a support structure around the first glass pane and the second glass pane, the first receiving surface contacting the border portion of the inside surface of the first glass pane, and the second receiving surface contacting the border portion of the inside surface of the second glass pane, wherein the first and second glass panes are supported by the support structure. 12. The method of manufacturing of claim 10, wherein the first receiving surface of the support structure includes a first raised portion that contacts the inside surface of the lust glass pane, and the second receiving surface of the support structure includes a second raised portion that contacts the inside surface of the second glass pane. 13. The method of manufacturing of claim 11, wherein the first receiving surface of each support structure includes a first raised portion that contacts the inside surface of the first glass pane, and the second receiving surface of each support structure includes a second raised portion that contacts the inside surface of the second glass pane. 14. A fenestration unit comprising: a sash framing and defining an opening; a first receiving surface formed in said sash surrounding said opening; a second receiving surface formed in said sash surrounding said opening, said second receiving surface being spaced from said first receiving surface; a first glass pane having a peripheral portion, said first glass pane being mounted in said sash spanning said opening with said peripheral portion of said first glass pane received by said first receiving surface; a second glass pane having a peripheral portion, said second glass pane being mounted in said sash spanning said opening with said peripheral portion of said second glass pane received by said second receiving surface; a first seal between said peripheral portion of said first glass pane and said first receiving surface; a second seal between said peripheral portion of said second glass pane and said second receiving surface; and a first raised portion on said first receiving surface, said first raised portion projecting toward and engaging said first glass pane. 15. The fenestration unit of claim 14 and wherein said first raised portion bounds said first seal along one side thereof. 16. The fenestration unit of claim 14 and wherein said first raised portion extends around said opening. 17. The fenestration unit of claim 14 end wherein said first seal bonds said peripheral portion of said first glass pane to said first receiving surface. 18. The fenestration unit of claim 14 and wherein said first receiving surface is generally planar except for said first raised portion. 19. The fenestration unit of claim 14 and further comprising a second raised portion on said second receiving surface, said second raised portion projecting toward said second glass pane. 20. The fenestration unit of claim 19 and wherein said second raised portion engages said second glass pane. 21. The fenestration unit of claim 19 and wherein said second raised portion bounds said second seal along one side thereof. 22. A fenestration unit comprising: a plurality of elongated extruded sash members jointed together to circumscribe a central opening; each said sash member being formed with at least two spaced apart receiving surfaces that align with like receiving surfaces of adjacent sash members to define a first glazing bed and a second glazing bed each extending around the periphery of said opening; a first glass pane having a peripheral portion supported on said first glazing bed and sealed to said first glazing bed with a first sealant; a second glass pane having a peripheral portion supported on said second glazing bed and sealed to said second glazing bed with a second sealant; and, a first raised portion extending around said first glazing bed inboard of said first sealant, said first raised portion projecting toward and engaging said first glass pane. 23. The fenestration unit of claim 22 wherein the first raised portion bounds the first glazing bed along one side thereof. 24. The fenestration unit of claim 22 wherein the first raised portion extends around said opening. 25. The fenestration unit of claim 22 wherein the first glazing bed bonds said peripheral portion of said glass pane to a first receiving surface of the two spaced apart receiving surfaces. 26. The fenestration unit of claim 22 wherein tho first receiving surface is generally planar except for said first raised portion. 27. The fenestration unit of claim 22 and further comprising a second raised portion on a second receiving surface of the two spaced apart receiving surfaces, said second raised portion projecting toward said second glass pane. 28. The fenestration unit of claim 27 wherein the second raised portion engages the second glass pane. 29. The fenestration unit of claim 27 wherein the second raised portion bounds said second glazing bed along one side thereof. 