A composite wafer carrier according to an embodiment of the present invention comprises an operative portion formed of a first thermoplastic material and a support portion formed of a second different thermoplastic material. One of the operative portion and support portion is overmolded onto the other to form a gapless hermitic interface that securely bonds the portions together. The operative portion may be a transparent window, a portion of a latching mechanism or a wafer contact portion. Preferred embodiments of the invention include wafer carriers with said features, process carriers with said features and a process for manufacturing wafer carriers with said features.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composite wafer carrier comprising: an enclosure portion formed of a first thermoplastic material and a second plastic material, the wafer carrier enclosing a plurality of slots for holding wafers in an axially aligned arrangement, the enclosure portion including a transparent window formed of the first thermoplastic material thermophysically bonded within a support portion formed of the second thermoplastic material for allowing the wafers to be viewed through the window, and wherein the window portion is secured in the enclosure portion without separate mechanical fasteners. 2. The wafer carrier of claim 1, wherein the window comprises a plurality of gradations provided thereto for indicating a relative number of wafers contained within the wafer carrier. 3. The wafer carrier of claim 1, wherein the second thermoplastic material is an electrically conductive plastic. 4. A composite wafer carrier having a plurality of slots for holding wafers in an axially aligned configuration, the wafer carrier comprising: a container portion comprised primarily of plastic and having an opening on one end; a door configured to latch onto and sealingly close the opening, the door comprised of a latch portion having an operative portion and a support portion, the operative portion formed of a first thermoplastic material, the support portion formed of a second thermoplastic material, the operative portion and the support portion having a thermophysical bond therebetween formed from overmolding one of said support portions and operative portion on the other of said support portion and operative portion, whereby said portions are bonded together without separate mechanical fasteners. 5. The wafer carrier of claim 4, wherein the second thermoplastic material comprises polycarbonate and the first thermoplastic material comprises polyetheretherketone. 6. The wafer carrier of claim 4, wherein the operative portion is configured as a bearing post. 7. The wafer carrier of claim 4, wherein the latching mechanism comprises a cammed wheel with a key slot therein and the operative portion includes the key slot. 8. A wafer carrier comprising: an enclosure enclosing a plurality of slots for holding a plurality of wafers, the enclosure comprising a transparent window with a peripheral edge thermophysically bonded within the enclosure to the enclosure to a window support portion, the thermophysical bond formed by overmolding. 9. The wafer carrier apparatus of claim 8, wherein the wafer carrier comprises an H-bar wafer carrier and the plurality of slots are defined by said H-bar carrier. 10. The wafer carrier of claim 8, wherein the enclosure comprises a base portion and a cover. 11. The wafer carrier of claim 10, wherein the cover includes a latching mechanism therein for releasably securing the cover to the base portion, the latching mechanism including a bearing post overmolded with the cover. 12. The wafer carrier of claim 8, wherein the window comprises a plurality of gradations provided thereto for indicating a relative number of wafers contained within the wafer carrier. 13. A wafer carrier for holding a plurality of wafers, comprising: an enclosure having a first portion and a second portion selectively cooperatively engagable with the first portion to define an enclosure with a bottom, a top, a pair of opposing sides, a back, and a front, the enclosure including a pair of operable latches for selectively latching the first and second portions in engagement with each other, at least one of the first and second portions of the enclosure comprising an opaque body with a transparent window portion thermophysically bonded therein, the carrier further including a wafer support structure disposed in the enclosure and defining a plurality of slots, each slot adapted to receive a separate one of the plurality of wafers so that the wafers are positioned in a generally parallel, axially aligned, arrangement. 