A rapid throughput method for the preparation, analysis or both of libraries of material samples is provided. According to the method, a plurality of samples is provided. Providing the plurality of samples can include a variety of sample formation techniques including, but not limited to, extruding, milling, compression preparation, rotary mixing, microcentrifugation, molding and casting. Preferably, the samples are solidified into a near net shape configuration appropriate for testing of properties or characteristics of the samples.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for high throughput preparation and screening of blend materials, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a first polymer material; (b) providing at least one additional material; (c) blending said at least one additional material to form a blend with said first polymer material; (d) forming a miniature material sample of said blend to a desired sample shape; (e) characterizing said blend as to morphology, size, composition, property or a combination thereof; (f) repeating said steps (a)-(e) for forming and characterizing a plurality of material samples of a library of material samples; and (g) preparing at least one additional sample based upon information obtained from steps (a)-(f). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said resulting blend includes at least three different polymer materials. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the materials of said blend are compositionally the same but differ in architecture. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the materials of said blend are compositionally the same but differ in polydispersity. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one additional material is an inorganic material. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said materials is provided in a liquid state and said liquid state is selected from a molten state or a dissolved state. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said first polymer material is provided by an automated dispenser in a dissolved state. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said material sample is smaller than about 0.1 kg. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said step (f) is repeated to form a library of at least about 24 samples. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said step (e) or said step (f) is conducted simultaneously for a plurality of samples. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the blending is at least partially performed by a technique selected from melt blending, liquid blending or a combination thereof. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the blending is performed in a device selected from a miniature extruder, a calendar mill or a rotary mixer. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample is formed by a technique selected from molding, compression of a material sample between opposing surfaces, contact with a roller surface having a predefined topography, microcentrifugation or a combination thereof. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein step (c) is performed in a plural screw extruder and the repeating of step (c) is performed simultaneously by melt blending each said first polymer material with each said at least one additional material using a different screw of the plural screw extruder to form each blend. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein step (c) is performed with a milling apparatus that includes multiple roller assemblies, each assembly having a first roller and a second roller and wherein the repeating of step (c) is performed simultaneously by melt blending each said first polymer material with each said at least one additional material using a different roller assembly of the multiple roller assemblies to form each blend. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein step (c) and step (d) are performed in a substrate having multiple wells and multiple pistons and wherein the repeating of step (c) and (d) is performed by compressing each said first polymer material with each said at least one additional material in a different well of the multiple wells using a different piston of the multiple pistons to form each sample. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein step (c) is performed with a rotary mixing apparatus that includes multiple rotor shafts and wherein the repeating of step (c) is performed simultaneously by mixing each said first polymer material with each said at least one additional material using a different rotor shaft of the multiple rotor shafts to form each blend. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein step (d) is performed with a rotating microcentrifugation tool that includes multiple radial wells and wherein the repeating of step (d) is performed by dispensing each said first polymer material with each said at least one additional material into a different radial well as the rotating tool rotates to form each sample. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein step (d) is performed by supplying each said first polymer material and each said at least one additional material to one or more molds either simultaneously or serially for forming the plurality of samples. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein said first polymer material is selected from a polyolefin, a polyethylene, a polypropylene, a polyethylene terephthalate, a vinyl, a polyvinyl chloride, a polyamide, a polyimide, a polyurethane, an acrylic, a polyester, a cellulose, an acetate, a melamine, a thermoplastic rubber, a thermosetting rubber, a fluorocarbon, a polytetrafluoroethylene, a polystyrene, a nitrile, a phenolic, a polycarbonate, an epoxy, an acrylonitrilebutadienestyrene, a polyethylene ether ketone, an acetal or a combination thereof. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein the desired shaped of the sample is selected from circular, cylindrical, rectangular, block, annular, square or a combination thereof. 22. The method of claim 1 wherein step (e) employs a techniques selected from beam radiation analysis, x-ray diffraction, high-throughput x-ray scattering, scattering from experimental systems, viscometry, failure or strength testing, adhesion testing, birefrigerance, rheo-optics, electron radiation, neutron radiation, synchotron radiation, infrared techniques, thermal analysis techniques, chromatographic techniques, resonance, spectroscopy, light scatter, spectrometry, microscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance, optical measurements, electrochemical measurements or a combination thereof. 23. A method for high throughput preparation and screening of blend materials, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a first polymer material; (b) providing at least one additional polymer material; (c) blending said at least one additional polymer material to form a blend with said first polymer material; (d) forming a miniature material sample of said blend to a desired sample shape; (e) characterizing said blend as to morphology, size, composition, property or a combination thereof; (f) repeating said steps (a)-(e) for forming and characterizing a plurality of material samples of a library of material samples; (g) correlating the results of said steps (a)-(f) with known information about each said blend; and (h) preparing at least one additional sample based upon information obtained from said steps (a)-(g). 24. The method of claim 23, wherein said material sample is smaller than about 0.01 kg. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said step (f) is repeated to form a library of at least about 24 samples. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein at least one of said characterizing steps (g)-(h) is performed simultaneously for all samples in said library. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein at least one of said step (e) or said step (f) is conducted simultaneously for a plurality of samples. 28. The method of claim 23, wherein the blending is at least partially performed by a technique selected from melt blending, liquid blending or a combination thereof. 29. The method of claim 23, wherein the blending is performed in a device selected from a miniature extruder, a calendar mill or a rotary mixer. 30. The method of claim 23, wherein the sample is formed by a technique selected from molding, compression of a material sample between opposing surfaces, contact with a roller surface having a predefined topography, microcentrifugation or a combination thereof. 31. The method of claim 23 wherein step (c) is performed in a plural screw extruder and the repeating of step (c) is performed simultaneously by melt blending each said first polymer material with each said at least one additional material using a different screw of the plural screw extruder to form each blend. 32. The method of claim 23 wherein step (c) is performed with a milling apparatus that includes multiple roller assemblies, each assembly having a first roller and a second roller and wherein the repeating of step (c) is performed simultaneously by melt blending each said first polymer material with each said at least one additional material using a different roller assembly of the multiple roller assemblies to form each blend. 33. The method of claim 23 wherein step (c) and step (d) are performed in a substrate having multiple wells and multiple pistons and wherein the repeating of step (c) and (d) is performed by compressing each said first polymer material with each said at least one additional material in a different well of the multiple wells using a different piston of the multiple pistons to form each sample. 34. The method of claim 23 wherein step (c) is performed with a rotary mixing apparatus that includes multiple rotor shafts and wherein the repeating of step (c) is performed simultaneously by mixing each said first polymer material with each said at least one additional material using a different rotor shaft of the multiple rotor shafts to form each blend. 35. The method of claim 23 wherein step (d) is performed with a rotating microcentrifugation tool that includes multiple radial wells and wherein the repeating of step (d) is performed by dispensing each said first polymer material with each said at least one additional material into a different radial well as the rotating tool rotates to form each sample. 36. The method of claim 23 wherein step (d) is performed by supplying each said first polymer material and each said at least one additional material to one or more molds either simultaneously or serially for forming the plurality of samples. 37. The method of claim 23 wherein said first polymer material is selected from a polyolefin, a polyethylene, a polypropylene, a polyethylene terephthalate, a vinyl, a polyvinyl chloride, a polyamide, a polyimide, a polyurethane, an acrylic, a polyester, a cellulose, an acetate, a melamine, a thermoplastic rubber, a thermosetting rubber, a fluorocarbon, a polytetrafluoroethylene, a polystyrene, a nitrile, a phenolic, a polycarbonate, an epoxy, an acrylonitrilebutadienestyrene, a polyethylene ether ketone, an acetal or a combination thereof. 38. The method of claim 23 wherein the desired shaped of the sample is selected from circular, cylindrical, rectangular, block, annular, square or a combination thereof. 39. The method of claim 23 wherein step (e) employs a techniques selected from beam radiation analysis, x-ray diffraction, high-throughput x-ray scattering, scattering from experimental systems, viscometry, failure or strength testing, adhesion testing, birefrigerance, rheo-optics, electron radiation, neutron radiation, synchotron radiation, infrared techniques, thermal analysis techniques, chromatographic techniques, resonance, spectroscopy, light scatter, spectrometry, microscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance, optical measurements, electrochemical measurements or a combination thereof. 40. A method for high throughput preparation and screening of materials, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a polymer material; (b) forming a miniature material sample of said polymer material to a desired sample shape; (c) characterizing said sample as to morphology, size, composition, property or a combination thereof; (d) repeating said steps (a)-(c) for forming and characterizing a plurality of material samples of a library of material samples; (e) correlating the results of said steps (a)-(d) with known information about each said material sample; and (f) preparing at least one additional sample based upon information obtained from said steps (a)-(e). 41. The method of claim 40, wherein the samples are compositionally the same but differ in architecture. 42. The method of claim 40, wherein the samples are compositionally the same but differ in polydispersity. 43. The method of claim 40, wherein said polymer material is provided in a liquid state and said liquid state is selected from a molten state or a dissolved state. 44. The method of claim 40, wherein said material sample is smaller than about 0.1 kg. 45. The method of claim 40, wherein said step (d) is repeated to form a library of at least about 24 samples. 46. The method of claim 40, wherein at least one of said steps (e)-(f) is performed simultaneously for all samples in said library. 47. The method of claim 40, wherein at least one of said step (c) or said step (d) is conducted simultaneously for a plurality of samples. 48. A method for high throughput preparation and screening of materials, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a polymer blend; (b) forming a miniature material sample of said blend to a desired sample shape; (c) characterizing said sample as to morphology, size, composition, property or a combination thereof said characterizing step including a step of adhesion testing; (d) repeating said steps (a)-(c) for forming and characterizing a plurality of material samples of a library of material samples; (e) correlating the results of said steps (a)-(d) with known information about each said blend; and (f) preparing at least one additional sample based upon information obtained from steps (a-(e). 49. The method of claim 48, wherein said polymer blend is provided in a liquid state and said liquid state is selected from a molten state or a dissolved state. 50. The method of claim 48 wherein step (c) further employs a techniques selected from beam radiation analysis, x-ray diffraction, high-throughput x-ray scattering, scattering from experimental systems, viscometry, failure or strength testing, birefrigerance, rheo-optics, electron radiation, neutron radiation, synchotron radiation, infrared techniques, thermal analysis techniques, chromatographic techniques, resonance, spectroscopy, light scatter, spectrometry, microscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance, optical measurements, electrochemical measurements or a combination thereof. 51. The method of claim 48 wherein said polymer blend includes an acrylic. 52. The method of claim 48 wherein said steps (a)-(c) are preformed on a flexible substrate. 53. The method of claim 48 wherein said polymer blend is provided in a liquid state, through an automated dispenser, onto a flexible substrate resulting in a material sample smaller than about 0.1 kg. 54. The method of claim 53 wherein said polymer blend includes an acrylic, said blend is dispensed, in a liquid state using an automated dispenser, onto a flexible substrate resulting in a material sample smaller than about 0.1 kg, and wherein said characterizing of said blend further comprises adhesion testing. 55. The method of claim 54 further comprising a step of preparing a bulk material based upon the results of said steps (a)-(e). 56. The method of claim 48 further comprising a step of preparing a bulk material based on the results of said steps (a)-(e). 