The present invention provides a method of cleaving a recombinantly expressed protein from an intein and ligating the protein to a peptide containing an N-terminal cysteine having an unoxidized sulfhydryl side chain which comprises contacting the protein with the peptide in a reaction solution comprising a conjugated thiophenol, thereby forming a C-terminal thioester of the recombinant protein which spontaneously rearranges intramolecularly to form an amide bond linking the protein to the peptide. The present invention also provides a method of producing a protein-chip composition comprising the steps of: (a) contacting a solid support chip containing an amine group with a peptide containing an N-terminal cysteine having an unoxidized sulfhydryl side chain thereby covalently linking the peptide to the solid support, forming a peptide-chip; and (b) contacting a recombinant protein having an intein domain with the peptide-chip of step (a) with a reaction solution containing a conjugated thiophenol, thereby forming a C-terminal thioester of the recombinant protein which spontaneously rearranges intramoleculaly to form an amide bond covalently linking the protein to the peptide-chip, thereby producing a protein-chip composition.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of cleaving a recombinantly expressed protein bound to an intein-chitin binding domain (CBD) and ligating said cleaved recombinant protein to a peptide containing an N-terminal cysteine having an unoxidized sulfhydryl side chain said method comprising contacting said recombinatly expressed protein bound to said intein-CBD with said peptide in a reaction solution containing a conjugated thiol, thereby effecting, in a one-pot reaction, cleavage of said recombinatly expressed protein from said intein-CBD and production of a C-terminal thioester of the recombinatly expressed protein which spontaneously undergoes intramolecular rearrangement to form an amide bond linking the C-terminus of said protein to the N-terminus of said peptide, wherein said conjugated thiol is selected from the group consisting of thiophenol, 2-nitrothiophenol, 2-thiobenzoic acid, 2-thiopyridine, 4-thio-2-pyridine carboxylic acid and 4-thio-2-nitropyridine. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the conjugated thiol is thiophenol. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein reaction is conducted at about pH 7. 4. The method according to claim 2, wherein reaction is conducted at about pH 7. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the reaction is conducted in a buffered solution. 6. The method according to claim 2, wherein the reaction is conducted in a buffered solution. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the recombinantly expressed protein is generated in a prokaryotic host. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the recombinantly expressed protein is generated in a eukaryotic host. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the recombinantly expressed protein is expressed by pCYB expression plasmids. 10. The method according to claim 2, wherein the recombinantly expressed protein is expressed by pCYB expression plasmids. 