This invention relates to an apparatus for the projection of a remote conferee's presence into a group meeting environment by using a combination of videoconferencing/teleconferencing and robotics technology. The remote conferee's face is shown substantially life-size on a video monitor. The remote conferee's eyes appear to be looking directly at the viewer. The video monitor can turn left or right to point at the person speaking, automatically or by manual control, to give the impression that the remote conferee is turning his head to look at the person speaking. The video screen can be raised and lowered to give the impression that the remote conferee is standing up and sitting down. An attention-getting mechanism prompts the attention of the other conferees when the remote conferee wants to interrupt or enter a conversation.
Claims We claim: 1. A teleconferencing robot, for enabling a remote conferee to project a sense of presence into a group meeting, the teleconferencing robot comprising: a base comprising an upper stage and a lower stage and wherein the lower and upper stages are rotatable relative to one another about a substantially vertical axis; one and only one video monitor is secured to the upper stage and the upper stage is rotatably mounted to the lower stage, said video monitor receiving and displaying a life-sized image of the remote conferee's face; a video camera movably mounted on the base; control means mounted on the base for moving the video monitor secured to the upper stage and the video camera in response to an input control signal; a sound location system for generating a speaker location signal in response to which the control means can automatically swivel said video monitor with said image of the remote conferee's face to look at another conferee speaking in an automatic mode; and wherein said upper stage to which said video monitor and said video camera are secured is moved in response to one of said input control signal to enable the remote conferee to project a sense of presence into the group meeting in a manual mode, and the speaker location signal generated by said sound location system in the automatic mode. 2. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the control means includes a rotating drive unit for rotation of the video monitor. 3. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 2, wherein the video camera is rotatably mounted with the video monitor to the base unit; and wherein the rotating drive unit rotates the video monitor and video camera. 4. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 2, wherein the video camera is rotatably mounted to the base, for rotation about a substantially vertical axis; and wherein the control means includes a pan drive unit for rotation of the video camera. 5. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 4, wherein the video camera is additionally mounted so as to be tiltable upwards and downwards; and wherein the control means includes a tilt drive unit for tiling the video camera upwards and downwards. 6. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein said input control signal is optionally derived from sound source detection means such that said control signal represents the direction of said sound source with respect to said monitor and said control means being adapted to drive said video monitor in response to said control signal, to a position substantially facing said detected direction. 7. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 6, wherein the upper stage has a defined forward direction with the video monitor normally being directed in said defined forward direction. 8. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 3, wherein the base comprises an upper part on which the video monitor is mounted and a lower part; and wherein the lower part of the base comprises a mobile ground unit including wheels and drive motors for rotating the wheels, to drive the teleconferencing robot across the ground. 9. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 3, wherein the screen of the video monitor is positioned at or near the vertical axis about which the video monitor rotates such that the angle formed by two straight lines lying in a horizontal plane crossing at the vertical axis and further extending through left and right hand edges of the screen of the video monitor is substantially 160.degree.-200.degree.. 10. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 3, further comprising an attention getting means for getting the attention of other conferees; and wherein the control means includes means for actuating the attention getting means. 11. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 10, wherein the attention getting means comprises a representation of a hand and arm; and wherein a free end of the arm is mechanically coupled to the base, whereby said representation of a hand and arm may be rotated alternatively inwardly and outwardly, to mimic a waving motion. 12. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 3, in combination with a remote teleconferencing unit which comprises a second microphone and a second video camera for obtaining an audio signal and an image from the remote conferee for transmission to the video monitor of the teleconferencing robot, and a second video monitor and a second speaker for providing an image and an audio signal received from the teleconferencing robot; wherein the video monitor of the teleconferencing robot is provided with a speaker for outputting an audio signal received from the microphone of the remote teleconferencing unit; and wherein the input control signal is provided by the remote teleconferencing unit. 13. A teleconferencing robot in combination with a remote teleconferencing unit as claimed in claim 12, wherein the remote teleconferencing unit and the teleconferencing robot are each provided with a respective communications controller for audio, video and data signals, for communication therebetween over a transmission system; and wherein the communications controllers transmit audio and video signals in both directions between the remote teleconferencing unit and the teleconferencing robot, and data signals to the teleconferencing robot for controlling the teleconferencing robot and data signals back to the remote teleconferencing unit, to provide information on movement of the teleconferencing robot. 14. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 5, further comprising microphone array means for enabling a location of a speaker to be determined and generating a detection signal indicative of the location of the speaker wherein the speaker location signal is derived from the detection signal and causes the rotating drive unit to rotate the video monitor to a position substantially facing the location of the speaker. 15. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 14, further comprising a switch unit enabling the input control signal to be selectively derived from the speaker location signal and a remote signal generated by the remote conferee. 16. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 14, wherein the base comprises a supporting arm extending around and behind the video monitor and supporting the video camera and the audio array means above the video monitor; and wherein the microphone array means is fixed to the base such that the video camera and the video monitor rotate independently of the microphone array means. 17. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 16, wherein a screen of the video monitor is positioned near the vertical axis about which the video monitor rotates; and wherein the video camera rotates substantially about the vertical axis. 18. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 5, including that: the sound location system is fixed to the base such that the video camera and the video monitor rotate independently of the sound location system; and wherein the input control signal is derived from the speaker location signal and causes the rotating drive unit and pan drive unit to rotate the video monitor and video camera, respectively, to a position substantially facing the location of the speaker. 19. A teleconferencing robot as claimed in claim 3, wherein the base comprises an upper part on which the video monitor is mounted and a lower part, and means for vertically displacing the upper and lower parts relative to one another. 20. A teleconferencing robot for enabling a remote conferee to project a sense of presence into a group meeting, said remote conferee located remotely from said group meeting, the teleconferencing robot comprising: a base comprising an upper stage and a lower stage and wherein the lower stage and upper stage are rotatably related to one another about a substantially vertical axis; one and only one video monitor secured to the upper stage and video monitor secured to the upper stage and movably mounted to the lower stage, said video monitor receiving and displaying a life-sized image of the remote conferee's face; the base includes means for vertically displacing the upper and lower parts relative to one another; a video camera; control means including a rotating drive unit for rotating the upper stage containing the video monitor relative to the lower stage in response to an input control signal derived from the remote signal generated by the remote conferee; a sound location system for generating a speaker location signal in response to which control means can automatically swivel said video monitor with said image of the remote conferee's face to look at another conferee speaking in an automatic mode; and wherein said video monitor moves in response to one of said input control signal to enable the remote conferee to project a sense of presence into the group meeting in a manual mode, and a speaker location signal generated by said sound location system in the automatic mode. 