Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of connective tissue growth factor. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding connective tissue growth factor. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of connective tissue growth factor expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of connective tissue growth factor are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound 8 to 50 nucleobases in length targeted to nucleobases 2212 through 2238 of a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO:19), wherein said compound specifically hybridizes with said nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor and inhibits the expression of connective tissue growth factor, wherein said compound is an antisense oligonucleotide and wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modification selected from the group consisting of a modified internucleoside linkage, a modified sugar moiety, and a modified nucleobase. 2. An antisense oligonucleotide up to 50 nucleobases in length targeted to nucleobases 2212 through 2238 of a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO:19), wherein said antisense oligonucleotide specifically hybridizes with said nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor and inhibits the expression of connective tissue growth factor and wherein the antisense oligonucleotide has a sequence comprising SEQ ID NO:47, 48, 63, or 64. 3. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The compound of claim 3 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 6. The compound of claim 5 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 7. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 8. The compound of claim 7 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 9. An antisense oligonucleotide 8 to 50 nucleobases in length targeted to nucleobases 2212 through 2238 of a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO:19), wherein said antisense oligonucleotide specifically hybridizes with said nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor and inhibits the expression of connective tissue growth factor and wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 10. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 11. The composition of claim 10 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 