A method and device for controllably combusting combustible material, including a combustion device comprising an elongate combustion tube having an inlet section including an inlet for combustible material, an ignition section, including an igniter displaced along a length of the tube from the inlet section to ignite the combustible material, and at least one energy extraction device operatively coupled to the combustion tube and configured to extract energy from combustion of the combustible mixture.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A combustion device, comprising: a combustion chamber having an extinguishing section, an ignition section, and a combustion section intermediate the extinguishing section and the ignition section; an igniter operatively coupled to the combustion chamber at the ignition section; a first supply system and a second supply system, operatively coupled to the combustion chamber at the extinguishing section, the first supply system configured to supply fuel to the combustion chamber, the second supply system configured to supply an oxidizer to the combustion chamber, the fuel and oxidizer being configured to combine and form a combustible mixture; the combustion chamber being configured to provide for the combustible mixture to fill the combustion chamber from the extinguishing section toward the ignition section and to be ignited by the igniter adjacent the ignition section, combustion proceeding through the combustion section from the ignition section toward the extinguishing section and then extinguishing; and at least one energy extraction device, operatively coupled to a side of the combustion chamber adjacent the ignition section, and being configured to extract energy from combustion of the combustible mixture. 2. A device in accordance with claim 1, wherein combustion proceeds through the combustion section from the ignition section toward the extinguishing section at a supersonic combustion rate. 3. A device in accordance with claim 1, wherein an inside surface of the combustion chamber includes surface irregularities to promote turbulent flow of the combustible material through the combustion chamber to thereby increase a combustion rate of the combustible material. 4. A device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the at least one energy extraction device is operatively coupled to an end of the combustion chamber proximate the ignition section of the combustion chamber. 5. A device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the energy extraction device is selected from the group consisting of a turbine, a thrust nozzle and a pressure chamber. 6. A device in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a flow restriction device, operatively coupled to the combustion chamber, and configured to restrict a rate at which the fuel and oxidizer enter the combustion chamber. 7. A device in accordance with claim 1, further comprising: a third supply system, operatively coupled to the combustion chamber, configured to introduce into the combustion chamber a buffer material; and the combustion chamber being configured to provide for the combustible mixture and the buffer material to simultaneously fill the chamber in a stratified condition. 8. A device in accordance with claim 7, further comprising an annular inlet port, operatively coupled intermediate the third supply system and the combustion chamber, configured to fill the combustion chamber with the buffer material in an annular path adjacent an inside diameter of the combustion chamber. 9. A device in accordance with claim 1 wherein a ratio of a length of the combustion chamber to an inside diameter of the combustion chamber is greater than 5:1. 10. A device in accordance with claim 1 wherein a length of the combustion chamber is less than 15 cm. 11. A method of extracting energy, comprising the steps of: filling from an inlet section at least one combustion tube with a combustible mixture; igniting the combustible mixture with an igniter displaced along a length of the combustion tube from the inlet section at an ignition section of the tube, combustion proceeding through the tube away from the ignition section; and extracting energy from combustion of the combustible mixture with at least one energy extraction device operatively coupled to a side of the combustion chamber adjacent the ignition section. 12. A method in accordance with claim 11, wherein the step of combusting the combustible material includes combusting the combustible material at a supersonic combustion rate. 13. A method in accordance with claim 11, wherein the step of extracting energy from combustion of the combustible material includes extracting energy from an end of the combustion tube. 14. A method in accordance with claim 11, wherein the step of extracting energy from combustion of the combustible material includes extracting energy with a secondary power output, the secondary power output being selected from the group consisting of a turbine, a thrust nozzle, and a pressure chamber. 15. A method in accordance with claim 11, further comprising the step of restricting a rate of flow of the combustible mixture into the combustion tube with a flow-restricting device. 16. A method in accordance with claim 11, further comprising the step of simultaneously filling the combustion tube with a buffer material and the combustible mixture in a stratified condition. 17. A combustion device, comprising: an elongate combustion tube having: i) an inlet section including an inlet for combustible material; and ii) an ignition section, including an igniter displaced along a length of the tube from the inlet section to ignite the combustible material; and at least one energy extraction device, operatively coupled to a side of the combustion tube adjacent the ignition section, configured to extract energy from combustion of the combustible mixture. 18. A device in accordance with claim 17, wherein the combustion tube is configured to be filled with the combustible material from the inlet section toward the ignition section, combustion proceeding through the combustion tube away from the ignition section. 19. A device in accordance with claim 17, further comprising a first supply system and a second supply system each operatively coupled to the combustion tube adjacent the inlet section, the first supply system configured to supply fuel to the combustion chamber, the second supply system configured to supply an oxidizer to the combustion chamber, the fuel and oxidizer configured to combine and form the combustible mixture. 20. A device in accordance with claim 17, wherein combustion proceeds through the combustion tube away from the ignition section at a supersonic combustion rate. 21. A device in accordance with claim 17, wherein an inside surface of the combustion tube includes surface irregularities to promote turbulent flow of the combustible material through the combustion tube to thereby increase a combustion rate of the combustible material. 22. A device in accordance with claim 17, wherein the at least one energy extraction device is operatively coupled to an end of the combustion tube. 23. A device in accordance with claim 17, wherein the energy extraction device includes a piston, operatively coupled to the combustion tube, configured to be driven by energy from combustion of the combustible mixture. 24. A device in accordance with claim 23, wherein the piston is operatively coupled to a power device, the power device being selected from the group consisting of an electric generator, a fluid pump, a hydraulic pump, a pneumatic pump, and a mechanical transducer. 25. A device in accordance with claim 17, wherein the energy extraction device is selected from the group consisting of a turbine, a thrust nozzle, and a pressure chamber. 26. A device in accordance with claim 17, further comprising a flow restriction device, operatively coupled to the combustion tube, configured to restrict a rate at which the fuel and oxidizer enter the combustion tube. 27. A device in accordance with claim 17, further comprising: a third supply system, operatively coupled to the combustion tube, configured to introduce into the combustion tube a buffer material; and the combustion tube being configured to provide for the combustible mixture and the buffer material to simultaneously fill the tube in a stratified condition. 28. A device in accordance with claim 27, further comprising an annular inlet port operatively coupled intermediate the third supply system and the combustion tube, the annular inlet port configured to fill the combustion tube with the buffer material in an annular path adjacent an inside diameter of the combustion tube. 29. A device in accordance with claim 17 wherein a ratio of a length of the combustion tube to an inside diameter of the combustion tube is greater than 5:1. 30. A device in accordance with claim 17 wherein a length of the combustion tube is less than 15 cm. 31. A combustion device, comprising: a plurality of combustion chambers each having an extinguishing section, an ignition section, and a combustion section intermediate the extinguishing section and the ignition section; at least one igniter operatively coupled to each combustion chamber at the ignition section; a first supply system and a second supply system, operatively coupled to the combustion chambers at the extinguishing section, the first supply system configured to supply fuel to the combustion chambers, the second supply system configured to supply an oxidizer to the chambers, the fuel and oxidizer being configured to combine and form a combustible mixture; the combustion chambers being configured to provide for the combustible mixture to fill the combustion chambers from the extinguishing section toward the ignition section and to be ignited by the igniter adjacent the ignition section, combustion proceeding through the combustion section from the ignition section toward the extinguishing section and then extinguishing; and at least one energy extraction device, operatively coupled to the combustion chambers adjacent the ignition section, and being configured to extract energy from combustion of the combustible mixture. 32. A device in accordance with claim 31, further comprising a combustion control system, operatively coupled to the plurality of combustion chambers, to selectively operate each of the plurality of combustion chambers. 33. A combustion device, comprising: a combustion chamber having an extinguishing section, an ignition section, and a combustion section intermediate the extinguishing section and the ignition section; an igniter operatively coupled to the combustion chamber at the ignition section; a first supply system and a second supply system, operatively coupled to the combustion chamber at the extinguishing section, the first supply system configured to supply fuel to the combustion chamber, the second supply system configured to supply an oxidizer to the combustion chamber, the fuel and oxidizer being configured to combine and form a combustible mixture; the combustion chamber being configured to provide for the combustible mixture to fill the combustion chamber from the extinguishing section toward the ignition section and to be ignited by the igniter adjacent the ignition section, combustion proceeding through the combustion section from the ignition section toward the extinguishing section and then extinguishing; at least one energy extraction device, operatively coupled to the combustion chamber adjacent the ignition section, and being configured to extract energy from combustion of the combustible mixture; and a plurality of energy release ports, formed in a side of the combustion chamber, configured to direct the energy from combustion of the combustible mixture to the at least one energy extraction device. 34. A combustion device, comprising: a combustion chamber having an extinguishing section, an ignition section, and a combustion section intermediate the extinguishing section and the ignition section; an igniter operatively coupled to the combustion chamber at the ignition section; a first supply system and a second supply system, operatively coupled to the combustion chamber at the extinguishing section, the first supply system configured to supply fuel to the combustion chamber, the second supply system configured to supply an oxidizer to the combustion chamber, the fuel and oxidizer being configured to combine and form a combustible mixture; the combustion chamber being configured to provide for the combustible mixture to fill the combustion chamber from the extinguishing section toward the ignition section and to be ignited by the igniter adjacent the ignition section, combustion proceeding through the combustion section from the ignition section toward the extinguishing section and then extinguishing; and at least one piston, operatively coupled to the combustion chamber adjacent the ignition section, and being configured to be driven by energy from combustion of the combustible mixture. 35. A device in accordance with claim 34, wherein the piston is operatively coupled to a power device, the power device being selected from the group consisting of an electric generator, a fluid pump, a hydraulic pump, a pneumatic pump, and a mechanical transducer. 36. A method of extracting energy, comprising the steps of: filling from an inlet section a plurality of combustion tubes with a combustible mixture; igniting the combustible mixture with an igniter displaced along a length of the combustion tubes from the inlet section at an ignition section of the tubes, combustion proceeding through the tubes away from the ignition section; and extracting energy from combustion of the combustible mixture with at least one energy extraction device operatively coupled to the combustion tubes adjacent the ignition section. 37. A method of extracting energy, comprising the steps of: filling from an inlet section at least one combustion tube with a combustible mixture; igniting the combustible mixture with an igniter displaced along a length of the combustion tube from the inlet section at an ignition section of the tube, combustion proceeding through the tube away from the ignition section; and extracting energy from combustion of the combustible mixture with a piston operatively coupled to the combustion chamber adjacent the ignition section. 38. A method in accordance with claim 37, further comprising the step of converting energy extracted by the piston into an alternate form, the alternate form being selected from the group consisting of electricity, fluid power and mechanical power. 39. A combustion device, comprising: a plurality of elongate combustion tubes each having: i) an inlet section including an inlet for combustible material; and ii) an ignition section, including an igniter displaced along a length of the tube from the inlet section to ignite the combustible material; and at least one energy extraction device, operatively coupled to the combustion tubes adjacent the ignition section, configured to extract energy from combustion of the combustible mixture. 40. A device in accordance with claim 39, further comprising a combustion control system, operatively coupled to the plurality of combustion tubes, to selectively operate each of the plurality of combustion tubes. 41. A combustion device, comprising: an elongate combustion tube having: i) an inlet section including an inlet for combustible material; and ii) an ignition section, including an igniter displaced along a length of the tube from the inlet section to ignite the combustible material; at least one energy extraction device, operatively coupled to the combustion tube adjacent the ignition section, configured to extract energy from combustion of the combustible mixture; a plurality of energy release ports, formed in a side of the combustion tube, configured to direct the energy from combustion of the combustible mixture to the at least one energy extraction device. 