Methods and systems for monitoring semiconductor fabrication processes are provided. A system may include a stage configured to support a specimen and coupled to a measurement device. The measurement device may include an illumination system and a detection system. The illumination system and the detection system may be configured such that the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of the specimen. For example, the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of a specimen including, but not limited to, critical dimension and overlay misregistration. In this manner, a measurement device may perform multiple optical and/or non-optical metrology and/or inspection techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system configured to determine at least two properties of a specimen during use, comprising: a stage configured to support the specimen during use; a measurement device coupled to the stage comprising: an illumination system configured to direct energy toward an upper surface of the specimen during use and to direct energy toward a bottom surface of the specimen during use; and a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect energy propagating from the upper surface of the specimen during use and to detect energy propagating from the bottom surface of the specimen during use, wherein the measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals in response to the detected energy during use; and a processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to determine a first property, a second property, and a third property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, wherein the first property comprises a critical dimension of the specimen, wherein the second property comprises overlay misregistration of the specimen, and wherein the third property comprises a presence of defects on the bottom surface of the specimen. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the stage is further configured to move laterally during use. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the stage is further configured to move rotatably during use. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the stage is further configured to move laterally and rotatably during use. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the illumination system comprises a single energy source. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the illumination system comprises more than one energy source. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the detection system comprises a single energy sensitive device. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the detection system comprises more than one energy sensitive device. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a non-imaging scatterometer. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a scatterometer. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a spectroscopic scatterometer. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a reflectometer. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a spectroscopic reflectometer. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises an ellipsometer. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a spectroscopic ellipsometer. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a bright field imaging device. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a dark field imaging device. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a bright field and a dark field imaging device. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a bright field non-imaging device. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a dark field non-imaging device. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a bright field and a dark field non-imaging device. 22. The system to claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a coherence probe microscope. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises an interference microscope. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises an optical profilometer. 25. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises at least a first measurement device and a second measurement device, and wherein the first and second measurement devices are selected from the group consisting of a non-imaging scatterometer, a scatterometer, a spectroscopic scatterometer, a reflectometer, a spectroscopic reflectometer, an ellipsometer, a spectroscopic ellipsometer, a bright field imaging device, a dark field imaging device, a bright field and a dark field imaging device, a bright field non-imaging device, a dark field non-imaging device, a bright field and a dark field non-imaging device, a coherence probe microscope, an interference microscope, and an optical profilometer. 26. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises at least a first measurement device and a second measurement device, and wherein optical elements of the first measurement device comprise optical elements of the second measurement device. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a fourth property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the fourth property comprises a presence of defects on the upper surface of the specimen. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the defects on the upper surface of the specimen comprise micro defects and macro defects. 29. The system of claim 1, wherein the defects comprise macro defects. 30. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a fourth property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the fourth property comprises a flatness measurement of the specimen. 31. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a fourth property and a fifth property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, wherein the fourth property comprises a presence of defects on the upper surface of the specimen, and wherein the fifth property comprises a flatness measurement of the specimen. 32. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a fourth property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the fourth property is selected from the group consisting of a roughness of the specimen, a roughness of a layer on the specimen, and a roughness of a feature of the specimen. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool selected from the group consisting of a lithography tool, an atomic layer deposition tool, a cleaning tool, and an etch tool. 34. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine at least the two properties of the specimen simultaneously during use. 35. The system of claim 1, wherein the illumination system is further configured to direct energy to multiple locations on the upper surface of the specimen substantially simultaneously, and wherein the detection system is further configured to detect energy propagating from the multiple locations on the upper surface of the specimen substantially simultaneously such that one or more of the at least two properties of the specimen can be determined at the multiple locations substantially simultaneously. 36. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool. 37. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the system is disposed within the process tool. 38. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the system is arranged laterally proximate to the process tool. 39. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the process tool comprises a wafer handler configured to move the specimen to the stage during use. 40. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the stage is configured to move the specimen from the system to the process tool during use. 41. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen to a process chamber of the process tool during use. 42. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the system is further configured to determine at least the two properties of the specimen while the specimen is waiting between process steps. 43. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, wherein the process tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during a process step, and wherein an upper surface of the support device is substantially parallel to an upper surface of the stage. 44. The system of claim 1, wherein the system coupled to a process tool, wherein the process tool comprise a support device configured to support the specimen during a process step, and wherein an upper surface of the stage is angled with respect to an upper surface of the support device. 45. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the process tool comprises a lithography tool. 46. The system of claim 1, wherein the system comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is coupled to a process tool. 47. The system of claim 1, wherein the system comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the measurement chamber, wherein the measurement chamber is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the measurement chamber is disposed within the process tool. 48. The system of claim 1, wherein the system comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the measurement chamber, wherein the measurement chamber is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the process tool. 49. The system of claim 1, wherein the system comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the measurement chamber, wherein the measurement chamber is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged vertically proximate to a process chamber of the process tool. 50. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a process chamber, wherein the stage is disposed within the process chamber, and wherein the stage is further configured to support the specimen during a process step. 51. The system of claim 50, wherein tho precursor is further configured to determine at least the two properties of the specimen during the process step. 52. The system of claim 50, wherein the processor is further configured to obtain a signature characterizing the process step during use, and wherein the signature comprises at least one singularity repesentative of an end of the process step. 53. The system of claim 52, wherein the processor is coupled to the process tool and is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to at least the two properties using an in situ control technique during use. 54. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprise a first process chamber and a second process chamber, and wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber during use. 55. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a first process chamber and a second process chamber, wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine at least the two properties of the specimen as the stage is moving the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber. 56. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a first process chamber and a second process chamber, wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber during use, wherein the processor is further configured to determine at least the two properties of the specimen as the stage is moving the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber, and wherein the process tool comprises a lithography tool. 57. The system of claim 56, wherein the first process chamber is configured to chill the specimen during use, and wherein the second process chamber is configured to apply resist to the specimen during use. 58. The system of claim 56, wherein the first process chamber is configured to chill the specimen subsequent to a post apply bake process step during use, and wherein the second process chamber is configured to expose the specimen during use. 59. The system of claim 56, wherein the first process chamber is configured to expose the specimen during use, and wherein the process chamber is configured to bake the specimen subsequent to exposure of the specimen during use. 60. The system of claim 56, wherein the first process chamber is configured to chill the specimen subsequent to a post exposure bake process step during use, and wherein the second process chamber is configured to develop the specimen during use. 61. The system of claim 56, wherein the first process chamber is configured to develop the specimen during use, and wherein the second process chamber is configured to bake the specimen subsequent to a develop process step during use. 62. The system of claim 56, wherein the first process chamber is configured to develop the specimen during use, and wherein the second process chamber is configured to receive the specimen in a wafer cassette during use. 63. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare at least the two properties of the specimen and properties of a plurality of specimens during use. 64. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare at least one of the first, second, or third properties of the specimen to a predetermined range for at least the one property. 65. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare at least one of the first, second, or third properties of the specimen to a predetermined range for at least the one property, and wherein the processor is further configured to generate an output signal if at least the one property of the specimen is outside of the predetermined range during use. 66. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a sampling frequency of the measurement device in response to the first, second, or third property of the specimen during use. 67. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of an instrument coupled to the measurement device in response to the first, second, or third property using a feedback control technique during use. 68. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of an instrument coupled to the measurement device in response to the first, second, or third property using a feedforward control technique during use. 69. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, and wherein the database comprises the first, second, and third properties of the specimen. 70. The system of claim 69, wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the measurement device using the database during use. 71. The system of claim 69, wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by measurement device using the database during use. 72. The system of claim 69, wherein the database further comprises first, second, and third properties of a plurality of specimens. 73. The system of claim 72, wherein the first, second, and third properties of the plurality of specimens are determined using the measurement device. 74. The system of claim 72, wherein the first, second, and third properties of the plurality of specimens are determined using a plurality of measurement devices. 75. The system of claim 74, wherein the processor is further coupled to the plurality of measurement devices. 76. The system of claim 75, wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 77. The system of claim 75, wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 78. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system during use. 79. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system and at least one additional system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system and at least the one additional system during use. 80. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine at least the two properties of the specimen at more than one position on the specimen, wherein the specimen comprises a wafer, and wherein the processor is configured to alter at least one parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a process tool in response to at least one of the first, second, and third properties of the specimen at the more than one position on the specimen to reduce within wafer variation of at least the one property. 81. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool. 82. The system of claim 81, wherein the process tool comprises a lithography tool. 83. The system of claim 81, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to the first, second, or third property using a feedback control technique during use. 84. The system of claim 81, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to the first, second, or third property using a feedforward control technique during use. 85. The system of claim 81, wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool during use. 86. The system of claim 85, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a relationship between the first, second, or third property and at least one of the monitored parameters during use. 87. The system of claim 86, wherein the processor is further configured to alter the parameter of the one or more instruments in response to the determined relationship during use. 88. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to plurality of measurement devices, and wherein each of the plurality of measurement devices is coupled to at least one of a plurality of process tools. 89. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises a local processor coupled to the measurement device and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the local processor is configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals doing use, and wherein the remote controller computer is configured to further process the at least partially remote one or more output signals during use. 90. The system of claim 89, wherein the local processor is further configured to determine the first property, the second property, and the third property of the specimen during use. 91. The system of claim 89, wherein the remote controller computer is further configured to determine the first property, the second property, and the third property of the specimen during use. 92. A method for determining at least two properties of a specimen, comprising: disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the stage is coupled to a measurement device, and wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system; directing energy toward an upper surface and a bottom surface of the specimen using the illumination system; detecting energy propagating from the upper surface and the bottom surface of the specimen using the detection system; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first property, a second property, and a third property of the specimen, wherein the first property comprises a critical dimension of the specimen, wherein the second property comprises overlay misregistration of the specimen, and wherein the third property comprises a presence of defects on the bottom surface of the specimen. 93. A computer-implemented method for controlling a system configured to determine at least two properties of a specimen during use, wherein the system comprises a measurement device, comprising: controlling the measurement device, wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system, and wherein the measurement device is coupled to a stage, comprising: controlling the illumination system to direct energy toward an upper surface and a bottom surface of the specimen; controlling the detection system to detect energy propagating from the upper surface and the bottom surface of the specimen; and generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first property, a second property, and a third property of the specimen, wherein the first property comprises a critical dimension of the specimen, wherein the second property comprises overlay misregistration of the specimen, and wherein the third property comprises a presence of defects on the bottom surface of the specimen. 94. A method for fabricating a semiconductor device, comprising; forming a portion of the semiconductor device upon a specimen; disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the stage is coupled to a measurement device, and wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system; directing energy toward an upper surface and a bottom surface of the specimen using the illumination system; detecting energy propagating from the upper surface and the bottom surface of the specimen using the detection system; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first property, a second property, and a third property of the specimen, wherein the first property comprises a critical dimension of the portion of the semiconductor device, wherein the second property comprises overlay misregistration of the portion of the semiconductor device, and wherein the third property comprises a presence of defects on the bottom surface of the specimen. 95. A system configured to determine a least two properties of a specimen during use, comprising: a stage configured to support the specimen during use; a measurement device coupled to the stage, comprising: an illumination system configured to direct energy toward an upper surface of the specimen during use and to direct energy toward a bottom surface of the specimen during use; and a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect energy propagating from the upper surface of the specimen during use and to detect energy propagating from the bottom surface of the specimen during use, wherein the measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals in response to the detected energy during use; a local processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals during use; and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the remote controller computer is configured to receive the at least partially processed one or more output signals and to determine a first property, a second property, and a third property of the specimen from the at least partially processed one or more output signals during us, wherein the first property comprises a critical dimension of the specimen, wherein the second property comprises overly misregistration of the specimen, and wherein the third property comprises a presence of defects on the bottom surface of the specimen. 96. A method for determining at least two properties of a specimen, comprising: disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the stage is coupled to a measurement device, and wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system; directing energy toward an upper surface and a bottom surface of the specimen using the illumination system; detecting energy propagating from the upper surface and the bottom surface of the specimen using the detection system; generating one or more output signals in response to the detected energy; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first property, a second property, and a third property of the specimen, wherein the first property comprises a critical dimension of the specimen, wherein the second property comprises overlay misregistration of the specimen, and wherein the third property comprises a presence of defects on the bottom surface of the specimen, wherein processing the one or more output signals comprises: at least partially processing the one or more output signals using a local processor, wherein the local processor is coupled to the measurement device; sending the at least partially processed one or more output signals from the local processor to a remote controller computer; and further processing the at least partially processed one or more output signals using the remote controller computer. 97. A system configured to determine at least three properties of a specimen during use, comprising: a stage configured to support the specimen during use; a measurement device coupled to the stage, comprising: an illumination system configured to direct energy toward a surface of the specimen during use; and a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect energy propagating from the surface of the specimen during use, wherein the measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals in response to the detected energy during use; and a processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to determine the at least three properties of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, wherein the at least three properties comprise a critical dimension of the specimen, overlay misregistration of the specimen, and a flatness measurement of the specimen. 98. A system configured to determine at least three properties of a specimen during use, comprising: a process tool configured to process the specimen during use; a measurement device coupled to the process tool, comprising: an illumination system configured to direct energy toward a surface of the specimen during use; and a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect energy propagating from the surface of the specimen during use, wherein the measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals in response to the detected energy during use; and a processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to determine the at least three properties of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, wherein the at least three properties comprise a critical dimension of the specimen, overlay misregistration of the specimen, and a roughness of the specimen, a roughness of a layer on the specimen, or a roughness of a feature on the specimen. 99. A system configured to determine at least three properties of a specimen during use, comprising: two or more measurement devices, wherein the two or more measurement devices are configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to one or more of the at least three properties of the specimen during use; and a processor coupled to the two or more measurement devices, wherein the processor is configured to determine the at least three properties of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the at least three properties of the specimen comprise a critical dimension of the specimen, overlay misregistration of the specimen, and a presence of defects on a bottom surface of the specimen. 100. A system configured to determine at least three properties of a specimen during use, comprising: a lithography track configured to perform one or more steps of a lithography process on the specimen during use; a measurement device coupled to the lithography track, wherein the measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to the at least three properties of the specimen during use; and a processor coupled to the measurement device, wherein the processor is configured to determine the at least three properties of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the at least three properties of the specimen comprise a critical dimension of the specimen, overlay misregistration of the specimen, and a presence of defects on a bottom surface of the specimen. 