A library of materials is screened for mechanical properties such as surface tension or interfacial tension. A library of materials is provided. A stimulus such as a stress or force is provided to each member of the library. A response (e.g., a resistance) of each of the materials due to the stimulus is measured and the response, the stimulus or both are recorded and related to provide data. Thereafter, the data is analyzed to reach conclusions regarding the material samples.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for screening an array of materials for surface tension or interfacial tension, the method comprising the steps of: providing at least four material samples in substantially liquid form; applying a force to the at least four material samples at a rate of no greater than 10 minutes per sample; monitoring a response of the at least four material samples to the force; and correlating the response of the at least four material samples to the surface tension or interfacial tension of the at least four material samples. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein the step of providing at least four material samples includes supporting the at least four material samples with a common singular substrate wherein each of the samples includes a characteristic that makes it different with respect to each of the other samples. 3. A method as in claim 1 wherein the step of applying a force to the at least four material samples includes dispensing at least a portion of each of the at least four material samples in several drops under the force of gravity. 4. A method as in claim 3 wherein the step of monitoring the response of the at least four material samples includes measuring the flowrate of the at least four material samples during dispensing. 5. A method as in claim 1 wherein at least part of the force is applied to the at least four material samples by contacting the material samples with a member. 6. A method as in claim 5 wherein the member is a substrate and the step of applying the force to the at least four material samples includes dispensing a drop of each of the at least four samples upon the substrate. 7. A method as in claim 1 wherein the force is applied to the at least four material samples by expanding a fluid within the at least four sample materials. 8. A method for screening an array of materials for a tension the method comprising the steps of: providing at least four material samples in substantially liguid form; applying a force to the at least four material samples at a rate of no greater than 10 minutes per sample wherein the force causes a portion of each of the material samples to separate from itself at a substantially known cross-section; monitoring a response of the at least four material samples to the force; and correlating the response of the at least four material samples to the tension of the at least four material samples. 9. A method as in claim 8 wherein each of the at least four samples are in substantially liquid form and wherein the tension is selected from surface tension or interfacial tension. 10. A method for screening an array of materials for a tension the method comprising the steps of: providing at least four material samples in substantially liguid form; applying a force to the at least four material samples at a rate of no greater than 10 minutes per sample wherein the force is applied substantially entirely by gravity; monitoring a response of the at least four material samples to the force; and correlating the response of the at least four material samples to the tension of the at least four material samples. 11. A method as in claim 10 wherein each of the at least four samples are in substantially liquid form and wherein the tension is selected from surface tension or interfacial tension. 12. A method for screening an array of materials for tension, the method comprising the steps of: providing at least four material samples in at least four wells of a substrate, the at least four material samples being different from each other with respect to at least one characteristic, the at least one characteristic being selected from the group consisting of composition, physical condition and temperature; aspirating the at least four material samples into one or more capillary tubes wherein the step of aspirating the at least four material samples includes employing an automated system with a robot arm for moving the one or more capillary tubes between the at least four wells of the substrate; dispensing the at least four material samples wherein each of the at least four material samples forms several separate drops during dispensing; monitoring a response of the at least four material samples during dispensing wherein the monitoring of the response includes monitoring the amount of time for the several separate drops to be dispensed; correlating the response of the at least four material samples to the tension of the at least four material samples wherein correlating the response includes correlating the amount of time for the drops to be dispensed to the tension of the at least four material samples and wherein the amount of time for the drops to be dispensed is correlated to a flow rate of the at least four samples during dispensing, which in turn is related to the tension of the at least four material samples. 13. A method as in claim 12 wherein one of the at least four material samples is dispensed within 2 minutes of another of the at least four material samples. 14. A method for screening an array of materials for tension, the method comprising the steps of: providing at least four material samples, the at least four material samples being different from each other with respect to at least one characteristic; aspirating the at least four material samples into one or more capillary tubes; dispensing the at least four material samples; monitoring a response of the at least four material samples during or after dispensing, the response being selected from a contact angle of the at least four material samples and a flowrate of the at least four material samples during dispensing; and correlating the response of the at least four material samples to the tension of the at least four material samples. 15. A method as in claim 14 wherein the step of providing at least four material samples includes supporting the at least four material samples with a common singular substrate. 16. A method as in claim 14 wherein the step of applying a force to the at least four material samples includes dispensing at least a portion of each of the at least four material samples in several drops under the force of gravity. 17. A method as in claim 16 wherein the step of monitoring the response of the at least four material samples includes measuring the flowrate of the at least four material samples during dispensing. 18. A method as in claim 14 wherein the step of dispensing the at least four material samples includes dispensing a drop of each of the at least four samples upon a substrate. 19. A method as in claim 14 wherein the material samples are dispensed such that drops of the material samples separate from themselves at a substantially known cross-section. 20. A method as in claim 14 wherein the at least four material samples are dispensed substantially entirely under only a force provided by gravity. 21. A method as in claim 14 wherein one of the at least four material samples is dispensed within 10 minutes of another of the at least four material samples. 22. A method as in claim 14 wherein one of the at least four material samples is dispensed within 2 minutes of another of the at least four material samples. 23. A method as in claim 14 wherein each of the at least four samples are in substantially liquid form and wherein the tension is selected from surface tension or interfacial tension. 