Integrated systems, apparatus, software, and methods for performing biochemical analysis, including DNA sequencing, genomic screening, purification of nucleic acids and other biological components and drug screening are provided. Microfluidic devices, systems and methods for using these devices and systems for performing a wide variety of fluid operations are provided. The devices and systems of are used in performing fluid operations which require a large number of iterative, successive or parallel fluid manipulations, in a microscale, or sealed and readily automated format.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of sequencing a template nucleic acid, the method comprising: mixing the template nucleic acid and one or more sequencing reagents in a microfluidic channel or chamber, whereby the template nucleic acid and the one or more sequencing reagents interact in the channel or chamber to form one or more sequencing products; wherein the sequencing reagent comprises a primer, wherein the primer is delivered to the chamber or channel from a set of primers comprising a subset of all possible primers of a given length; and, detecting the one or more sequencing products, thereby determining at least a subsequence of the template nucleic acid. 2. A method of sequencing a template nucleic acid, the method comprising: mixing the template nucleic acid and one or more sequencing reagents in a microfluidic channel or chamber, whereby the template nucleic acid and the one or more sequencing reagents interact in the channel or chamber to form one or more sequencing products; and, detecting the one or more sequencing products, thereby determining at least a subsequence of the template nucleic acid; wherein detecting the one or more sequencing products comprises separating the sequencing products by size by electrophoresis in a microfluidic channel to produce a plurality of size separated sequencing products, and detecting the size separated sequencing products. 3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the template nucleic acid comprises one or more of: an RNA, a DNA, a cloned nucleic acid, a plasmid, a lambda phage, a cosmid, a yeast artificial chromosome (YAC), a P1 artificial chromosome, a MAC, a PAC, or a Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC). 4. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the template nucleic acid is end labeled. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the sequencing product is formed by clevage of the end-labeled template. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the sequencing product is formed by hybridization of a primer to the end-labeled template nucleic acid. 7. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the template nucleic acid is not labeled. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the sequencing product is formed by template-dependent primer extension of a primer hybridized to the template nucleic acid. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the sequencing product is formed by hybridization of a labeled primer to the template nucleic acid. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the sequencing product is formed by hybridization of an unlabeled primer to the template nucleic acid, followed by template-dependent extension of the unlabeled primer with one or more labeled nucleotides. 11. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sequencing reagent/comprises one or more of: a primer that is complementary to a subsequence of the template nucleic acid, a perfectly matched sequencing by hybridization primer, an imperfectly matched sequencing by hybridization primer, a modular primer a labeled primer, an unlabeled primer, a dNTP, a labeled dNTP, a ddNTP, an enzyme, a polymerase, a thermostable polymerase, an E. coli DNA polymerase, an E. coli DNA pol I, a Klenow fragment, a T7 DNA polymerase, a Taq polymerase, a Pfu DNA polymeras, a Bst polymerase, a Vent polymerase, magnesium, potassium, sodium, NaOH, or a chemical that degrades the template nucleic acid. 12. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sequencing reagents comprise a primer that is complementary to the template nucleic acid, dNTPs, ddNTPs and a polymerase. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the sequencing product is a primer extension product that incorporates a ddNTP at one terminus of the product. 14. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sequencing products are formed by incorporation of one or more dideoxy residue into a primer extension product. 15. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sequencing reagents comprise an exonuclease and forming the sequencing products comprises exonuclease digestion. 16. The method of claim 1 or 2, comprising selectively incorporating boronated nuclease resistant nucleotides into one or more of the sequencing products, followed by digestion of the products with a nuclease to produce sized sequencing products. 17. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sequencing products comprise one or more radioactive moiety. 18. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sequencing products comprise one or more fluorescent moiety. 19. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sequencing products comprise a plurality of fluorescent moieties. 20. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sequencing products comprise four different fluorescent moieties. 21. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the detecting comprises four color detection. 22. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the template nucleic acid is flowed from a template nucleic acid source through a first microscale channel to a mixing region and the sequencing reagent is flowed from a reagent source through a second microscale channel into the mixing region. 23. The method of claim 1 or 2, or wherein mixing the template and the one or more sequencing reagents comprises: flowing the template nucleic acid from a template nucleic acid source through a first microscale channel to a mixing region; flowing a first nucleic acid sequencing reagent from a first reagent source into the mixing region; and, flowing a second nucleic acid sequencing reagent from a second reagent source into the mixing region. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the first and second nucleic acid sequencing reagents are flowed through a second microscale channel, or wherein the first and second nucleic acid sequencing reagents are flowed through a second and a third microscale channel, respectively. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the first or second sequencing reagent is a primer that is complementary to a subsequence of the template nucleic acid. 26. The method of claim 23, comprising selecting at least a third sequencing reagent based upon the subsequence of the template nucleic acid, or comprising selecting a second template nucleic acid for sequencing based upon the subsequence of the template nucleic acid. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the template nucleic acid and the second template nucleic acid are both genomic clones of an organism. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the third sequencing reagent is a primer that is complementary to a portion of the subsequence of the template nucleic acid. 29. The method of claim 2, wherein the sequencing reagent comprises a primer, wherein the primer is delivered to the chamber or channel from a set of primers comprising a subset of all possible primers of a given length. 30. The method of claim 1 or 29, wherein the primer is a modular primer. 31. The method of claim 1 or 29, wherein the primer is extended by a process comprising differential extension with nucleotide subsets (DENS). 32. The method of claim 1 or 29, wherein the subset comprises 70% or more of all possible primers of the given length. 33. The method of claim 1 or 29, wherein the subset comprises 90% or more of all possible primers of the given length. 34. The method of claim 1 or 29, wherein the given length is between about 4 and about 10. 35. The method of claim 1 or 29, wherein the set comprises at least about 3,000 different members. 36. The method of claim 1 or 29, wherein the set is located in a microfluidic device that comprises the microfluidic channel or chamber. 37. The method of claim 1 or 29, wherein the set is located on a substrate, wherein members of the set are accessed using a microfluidic device that comprises the microfluidic channel or chamber. 38. The method of claim 1 or 29, wherein the sequencing reagent is a primer, wherein the primer is delivered to the chamber or channel from a set of primers comprising all possible primers of a given length. 39. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sequencing reagents comprise a primer and the sequencing products are the result of template-dependent primer extension of the primer while the primer is hybridized to the template nucleic acid during or subsequent to mixing the template and the primer. 40. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the detecting is performed with a detector selected from the group of detectors consisting of: a spectrophotometer, a fluorescent detector, a microscope, a fluorescence polarization detector, and a scintillation counting device. 41. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequencing products are separated electrophoretically prior to detection. 42. The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising selecting one or more additional sequencing reagents based upon the subsequence of the template nucleic acid; mixing the one or more additional reagents with the template nucleic acid, thereby forming one or more additional sequencing products; and, detecting the one or more additional sequencing products, thereby determining an additional subsequence of the template nucleic acid. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein the one or more additional reagents and the template nucleic acid are mixed in the microfluidic channel or chamber, or in an additional microfluidic channel or chamber. 44. The method of claim 42, wherein the one or more additional reagents comprises a primer, wherein the primer is selected to be complementary to a region of the subsequence of the template nucleic acid. 45. The method of claim 44, wherein the primer is selected using a computer. 46. The method of claim 1, wherein the mixture resulting from mixing said template nucleic acid and said one or more sequencing reagents is subjected to thermocycling. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein the thermocycling comprises performing a polymerase chain reaction. 48. The method of claim 46, wherein the thermocycling comprises performing a ligase chain reaction. 49. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the mixture resulting from mixing said template nucleic acid and said one or more sequencing reagents is subjected to non-thermal nucleic acid amplification. 