A system that controls devices and integrally simulates the controlled motion of devices. The control and simulation system allows simultaneous development hardware and software in controlled device installations and increase operational ease-of-use and diagnostic capabilities. The control and three dimensional simulation system also allows client computers to remotely control the system and other devices connected to a network.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a robotic device, comprising: inputting a set of instructions for controlling the robotic device; controlling a first portion of the robotic device according to the instructions; simulating a second portion of the robotic device according to the instructions, wherein the second portion of the robotic device is disabled or absent; and displaying an animated image of the robotic device that includes both the first and second portions of the robotic device in a single image, the image depicting the first portion of the robotic device being controlled according to the instructions and the second portion of the robotic device being simulated according to the instructions. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the controlling the first portion of the robotic device comprises using a server computer to control the robotic device; and the displaying the animated image of the robotic device comprises using a client computer to display the image; and further comprising: interconnecting the server computer and the client computer via a network. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: controlling a first portion of each of a plurality of robotic devices according to the instructions; simulating a second portion of each of the plurality of robotic devices according to the instructions, wherein the respective second portion of the robotic device is disabled or absent; and displaying a plurality of animated images, each animated images depicting at least one of the robotic devices, each image including both the first and second portions of the at least one robotic device in a single image, each image depicting the first portion of the respective robotic device being controlled according to the instructions and the second portion of the respective robotic device being simulated according to the instructions. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting an error; and highlighting a portion of the animated image related to the error. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining a video image of at least a portion of a work cell that contains the robotic device; and displaying the video image in conjunction with displaying the animated image. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: pausing execution of the instructions; and displaying a position of the robotic device that includes both the first and second portions of the robotic device in a single image, the image depicting the first and second portions of the robotic device as of the most recent instruction executed. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the pausing execution of the instructions is in response to a user command. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the pausing execution of the instructions is in response to a pause instruction in the set of instructions. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the pausing execution of the instructions is in response to reaching an end of the set of instructions. 10. The method of claim 6, further comprising: in response to a user command, continuing execution of the instructions. 11. The method of claim 6, further comprising: inputting at least one additional instruction for controlling the robotic device. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: displaying a position of the robotic device that includes both the first and second portions of the robotic device in a single image, the image depicting the first and second portions of the robotic device as if the at least one additional instruction were executed. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: in response to a user command, executing at least one of the at least one additional instruction. 14. The method of claim 6, further comprising: in response to a user command, editing at least one of the instructions. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: displaying a position of the robotic device that includes both the first and second portions of the robotic device in a single image, the image depicting the first and second portions of the robotic device as if the at least one edited instruction were executed. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: in response to a user command, executing the at least one edited instruction. 17. A system for controlling a robotic device, comprising: a computer system connected to the robotic device to control operation of the robotic device; a memory connected to the computer system; a display device connected to the computer system; and a program stored in the memory to control operation of the computer system and the display device, the program being configured to: input a set of instructions for controlling the robotic device; control a first portion of the robotic device according to the instructions; simulate a second portion of the robotic device according to the instructions, wherein the second portion of the robotic device is disabled or absent; and display an animated image of the robotic device on the display device, the animated image including both the first and second portions of the robotic device in a single image, the image depicting the first portion of the robotic device being controlled according to the instructions and the second portion of the robotic device being simulated according to the instructions. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein: the computer system comprises a server computer and a client computer and further comprising a network interconnecting the server computer and the client computer; wherein: the server computer is connected to the robotic device to control operation of the robotic device; and the display device is connected to the client computer. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the computer system is connected to a plurality of robotic devices to control operation of the plurality of robotic devices and the program is further configured to: control a first portion of each of the plurality of robotic devices according to the instructions; simulate a second portion of each of the plurality of robotic devices according to the instructions, wherein the respective second portion of the robotic device is disabled or absent; and display a plurality of animated images, each animated images depicting at least one of the robotic devices, each image including both the first and second portions of the at least one robotic device in a single image, each image depicting the first portion of the respective robotic device being controlled according to the instructions and the second portion of the respective robotic device being simulated according to the instructions. 20. The system of claim 17, wherein the program is further configured to: detect an error; and highlight a portion of the animated image related to the error. 21. The system of claim 17, further comprising: a video image capture device connected to the computer system and oriented toward a portion of a work cell that contains the robotic device; and wherein the program is further configured to display a video image from the video image capture device in conjunction with displaying the animated image. 22. The system of claim 17, wherein the program is further configured to: pause execution of the instructions; and display a position of the robotic device that includes both the first and second portions of the robotic device in a single image, the image depicting the first and second portions of the robotic device as of the most recent instruction executed. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the program is further configured to: input at least one additional instruction for controlling the robotic device; and display a position of the robotic device that includes both the first and second portions of the robotic device in a single image, the image depicting the first and second portions of the robotic device as if the at least one additional instruction were executed. 24. The system of claim 22, wherein the program is further configured to: in response to a user command, edit at least one of the instructions; and display a position of the robotic device that includes both the first and second portions of the robotic device in a single image, the image depicting the first and second portions of the robotic device as if the at least one edited instruction were executed. 