A system is provided for ultrasonic inspection of cylindrical carbon articles, such as electrodes of the type utilized in electric arc steel making furnaces. An inspection station is provided for receiving the electrode in a fixed longitudinal location and for rotating the electrode about the longitudinal axis of the electrode. Master and slave robots are provided, and each carries a pair of transducers arranged to engage the electrode at circumferentially spaced positions about the electrode. Each pair of transducers is carried on a yoke. The inspection station rotates the electrode while the master and slave robots o each carry their associated pair of transducers along approximately one half the length of the electrode.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for inspection of a cylindrical carbon article having a length and a longitudinal axis parallel to the length, comprising: an inspection station for receiving the article in a fixed longitudinal location and rotating the article about the longitudinal axis of the article while the article is in the fixed longitudinal location; an encoder arranged to axially engage an end of the article for sensing a circumferential position of the article, the encoder being adjustable in elevation relative to the inspection station to accommodate different diameters of articles; a master robot, including a first pair of transducers arranged to engage the article at circumferentially spaced positions about the article; and a slave robot constructed to move in synchronization with the master robot, including a second pair of transducers arranged to engage the article at a location longitudinally spaced from the first pair of transducers, so that the first and second pairs of transducers may simultaneously scan first and second portions, respectively, of the length of the article. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the transducers are ultrasonic transducers for measuring sound velocities through the article. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: each of the robots includes a bi-furcated yoke having two arms with one of the transducers mounted on each arm. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the inspection station includes powered rotational rollers for rotating the article about the longitudinal axis of the article. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein: the powered rotational railers include first and second longitudinally spaced pairs powered rotational rollers, at least one of the pairs of powered rotational rollers being longitudinally movable to accommodate different lengths of articles. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the inspection station further includes an elevator for placing the article on the powered rotational rollers and for raising the article from the powered rotational rollers. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a conveyor system having an article path in line with the longitudinal axis of the article at the inspection station. 8. An apparatus for inspection of a cylindrical carbon article having a length and a longitudinal axis parallel to the length, comprising: an inspection station for receiving the article in a fixed longitudinal location and rotating the article about the longitudinal axis of the article while the article is in the fixed longitudinal location; an encoder arranged to axially engage an end of the article for sensing a circumferential position of the article, the encoder being adjustable in elevation relative to the inspection station to accommodate different diameters of articles; a master robot, including a first pair of transducers arranged to engage the article at circumferentially spaced positions about the article; and a slave robot constructed to move in synchronization with the master robot, including a second pair of transducers arranged to engage the article at a location longitudinally spaced from the first pair of transducers, so that the first and second pairs of transducers may simultaneously scan first and second portions; respectively, of the length of the article. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein: the transducers are ultrasonic transducers for measuring sound velocities through the article. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein: each of the robots includes a biurcated yoke having two arms with one of the transducers mounted on each arm. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein: the inspection station includes powered rotational rollers for rotating the article about the longitudinal axis of the article. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein: the powered rotational rollers include first and second longitudinally spaced pairs powered rotational rollers, at least one of the pairs of powered rotational rollers being longitudinally movable to accommodate different lengths of articles. 13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein: the inspection station further includes an elevator for placing the article on the powered rotational rollers and for raising the article from the powered rotational rollers. 14. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising: a conveyor system having an article path in line with the longitudinal axis of the article at the inspection station. 