A system for directing electromagnetic energy. The inventive system includes a first subsystem mounted on a first platform for transmitting a beam of the electromagnetic energy through a medium and a second subsystem mounted on a second platform for redirecting the beam. In accordance with the invention, the second platform is mobile relative to the first platform. In the illustrative embodiment, the beam is a high-energy laser beam. The first subsystem includes a phase conjugate mirror in optical alignment with a laser amplifier. The first subsystem further includes a beam director in optical alignment with the amplifier and a platform track sensor coupled thereto. In the illustrative embodiment, the second subsystem includes a co-aligned master oscillator, outcoupler, and target track sensor which are fixedly mounted to a stabilized platform, a beam director, and a platform track sensor. In the best mode, the stable platform is mounted for independent articulation relative to the beam director. A first alternative embodiment of the second subsystem includes first and second beam directors. The first beam director is adapted to receive the transmitted beam and the second beam director is adapted to redirect the received beam. In accordance with a second alternative embodiment, an optical fiber is provided for coupling the beam between the first platform and the second platform.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for directing electromagnetic energy comprising: a master oscillator for generating a beam of electromagnetic energy; first means for amplifying said beam of electromagnetic energy to form an amplified beam; second means for redirecting said amplified beam; and third means for correcting aberrations in said amplified beam introduced by said first means, wherein said first means is mounted on a first platform, and said master oscillator and said second means are mounted on a second platform, said second platform being mobile relative to said first platform. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein said second means includes a relay mirror arrangement. 3. The invention of claim 2 wherein said second means includes a beam director. 4. The invention of claim 3 wherein said second means includes a platform track sensor. 5. The invention of claim 4 wherein said second means includes an outcoupler. 6. The invention of claim 5 wherein said beam director and said outcoupler are mounted for mutually independent articulation. 7. The invention of claim 5 wherein said relay mirror is integral with said outcoupler. 8. The invention of claim 1 wherein said second means includes first and second beam directors, said first beam director being adapted to receive said amplified beam and said second beam director being adapted to redirect said amplified beam. 9. The invention of claim 1 wherein said beam of electromagnetic energy is a laser beam and said first means includes a high-energy laser amplifier. 10. The invention of claim 9 wherein said third means includes a phase conjugate mirror in optical alignment with said laser amplifier. 11. The invention of claim 10 wherein said first means includes a beam director in optical alignment with said laser amplifier. 12. The invention of claim 11 wherein said first means further includes a platform track sensor. 13. The invention of claim 1 further including an optical fiber for coupling said amplified beam between said first platform and said second platform. 14. A system for directing electromagnetic energy comprising: a master oscillator for generating a laser beam; first means for amplifying said laser beam to form an amplified laser beam, said first means including: a high-energy laser amplifier, and a phase conjugate mirror in optical alignment with said amplifier to correct aberrations in said amplified beam introduced by said amplifier; and second means for redirecting said amplified laser beam, said second means including: a beam director and an outcoupler mounted for independent articulation relative to said beam director; wherein said first means are mounted on a first platform, and said master oscillator and said second means are mounted on a second platform mobile with respect to said first platform. 15. A method for directing electromagnetic energy comprising the steps of: generating a beam of electromagnetic energy on a second platform; transmitting said beam of electromagnetic energy through a medium to a first platform; amplifying said beam on said first platform to form an amplified beam; correcting aberrations in said beam introduced by said amplifier; transmitting said amplified beam from said first platform through said medium to said second platform; and redirecting said amplified beam from said second platform, said second platform being mobile relative to said first platform. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the steps of transmitting said beam and transmitting said amplified beam comprise transmitting the beams through the atmosphere. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein the steps of transmitting said beam and transmitting said amplified beam comprise transmitting the beams through at least one fiber optic cable. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein the step of amplifying said beam includes correcting pointing and wavefront errors. 19. The invention of claim 1 wherein said means for correcting aberrations is a phase conjugate mirror. 20. The invention of claim 19 wherein said first means is an amplifier and said phase conjugate mirror is operationally coupled to the output thereof. 21. The invention of claim 15 wherein said step of correcting aberrations is performed with a phase conjugate mirror. 22. A system for directing electromagnetic energy comprising: a master oscillator for generating a beam of electromagnetic energy; first means amplifying said beam of electromagnetic energy to form an amplified beam; second means for redirecting said amplified beam, said first means being mounted on a first platform, and said master oscillator and said second means being mounted on a second platform, said second platform being mobile relative to said first platform; and an optical fiber for coupling said amplified beam between said first platform and said second platform. 23. A method for directing electromagnetic energy comprising the steps of: generating a beam of electromagnetic energy on a second platform; transmitting said beam of electromagnetic energy through a medium to a first platform; amplifying said beam on said first platform to form an amplified beam; transmitting said amplified beam from said first platform through said medium to said second platform; and redirecting said amplified beam from said second platform, said second platform being mobile relative to said first platform, wherein the steps of transmitting said beam and transmitting said amplified beam comprise transmitting the beams through at least one fiber optic cable. 