Methods and apparatus are disclosed for synthesizing a purality of compounds such as biopolymers on the surface of supports. The synthesis comprises a plurality of steps in which reagents for conducting the synthesis are deposited o the surface of the support to form precursors of the chemical compounds and, ultimately, the chemical compounds themselves. An error in the deposition may occur in one or more of the plurality of steps. A reagent for forming the chemical compounds is deposited on the surface of the support. A determination is made as to whether an error occurred in the depositing of the reagent. If an error is detected, the support is treated to re-deposit at least some of those reagents that were not correctly deposited. In one approach the support is treated to stabilize precursors of the chemical compounds, the source of the error is corrected, and the reagent applied above is re-deposited on the surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for synthesizing an array of biopolymers, selected from the group consisting of polynucleotides and polypeptides, on the surface of a support wherein said synthesis comprises a plurality of steps wherein reagents for forming said biopolymers are deposited on the surface of the support and wherein on or more of said plurality of steps may comprises an error in said deposition, said method comprising: (a) placing a support having a functionalized surface into a reaction chamber, (b) dispensing, to multiple locations on said surface from a plurality of nozzles, a plurality of drops of a reagent for forming said biopolymers, (c) repeating steps (a) and (b) in one or more cycles so as to form said biopolymers, wherein the reagents deposited in different cycles at the same locations on said surface may or may not be the same; the method additionally comprising in at least one selected cycle, (d) determining, using an imaging system, whether an error occurred in the dispensing of said reagent in the selected cycle, said error arising from the failure of one or more nozzles to dispense said reagents to one or more of said multiple locations, (e) if an error occurred, (i) isolating said support, (ii) stabilizing the surface of said support in said holding chamber, (iii) correcting the source of said error, and (iv) dispensing, to said surface from a plurality of nozzles, a plurality of drops of said reagent for the cycle in which the error occurred, and (f) subjecting said support to reagents for preparing said support for a subsequent dispensing step. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said error is determined by means of comparing an imprint of the delivered spots to a predetermined imprint. 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein said imprint of said delivered spots is determined by means of a camera. 4. A method according to claim 2 wherein said comparing is carried out by means of a computer. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said reagent for forming said biopolymers comprises a biopolymer subunit. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein said cycles comprise the steps of blocking and deblocking. 