Methods and systems for monitoring semiconductor fabrication processes are provided. A system may include a stage configured to support a specimen and coupled to a measurement device. The measurement device may include an illumination system and a detection system. The illumination system and the detection system may be configured such that the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of the specimen. For example, the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of a specimen including, but not limited to, a property of a specimen prior to, during, or subsequent to an etch process. In this manner, a measurement device may perform multiple optical and/or non-optical metrology and/or inspection techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system configured to determine at least one property of a specimen, comprising: an etch tool configured to etch the specimen; a beam profile ellipsometer coupled to the etch tool, comprising: an illumination system configured to direct an incident beam of light having a known polarization state to the specimen; and a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect light returned from the specimen, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to the detected light use; an eddy current device coupled to the etch tool; and a processor coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer and the eddy current device, and wherein the processor is configured to determine a property of the specimen from the one or more output signals use, and to determine a thickness of the specimen from one or more output signals generated by the eddy current device. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer, wherein the stage is configured to move laterally. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer, wherein the stage is configured to move rotatably. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer, wherein the stage is configured to move laterally and rotatably. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising an additional measurement device coupled to the etch tool, wherein the processor is further coupled to the additional measurement device, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine an additional property of the specimen from one or more output signals generated by the additional measurement device. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine an additional property of the specimen from the one or more output signals, generated by the beam profile ellipsometer, and wherein the additional property is selected from the group consisting of a roughness of the specimen, a roughness of a layer on the specimen, and a roughness of a feature of the specimen. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the property is selected from the group consisting of a thickness, an index of refraction, and an extinction coefficient. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine at least two properties of the specimen substantially simultaneously. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the illumination system is further configured to direct the incident beam of light to multiple locations on the specimen substantially simultaneously, and wherein the detection system is further configured to detect light returned from the multiple locations substantially simultaneously such that at least the one property can be determined at the multiple locations substantially simultaneously. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is further coupled to a process chamber of the etch tool. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the etch tool. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the etch tool, and wherein the etch tool comprises a wafer handler configured to move the specimen to a stage coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the etch tool, and wherein a stage coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer is configured to move the specimen from the beam profile ellipsometer to the etch tool. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the etch tool, and wherein a stage coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer is configured to move the specimen to the process chamber of the etch tool. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine at least the one property of the specimen while the specimen is waiting between process steps. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the etch tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during an etch process step, and wherein an upper surface of the support device is substantially parallel to an upper surface of a stage coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the etch tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during an etch process step, and wherein an upper surface of the support device is substantially perpendicular to an upper surface of a stage coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is disposed within a measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the etch tool. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is disposed within a measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged vertically proximate to a process chamber of the etch tool. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is further coupled to a stage disposed within a process chamber of the etch tool, and wherein the stage is configured to support the specimen during an etch process step. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is further coupled to a stage disposed within a process chamber of the etch tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the property of the specimen during an etch process step. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is further coupled to a stage disposed within a process chamber of the etch tool, wherein the processor is further configured to obtain a signature characterizing etching of the specimen, and wherein the signature comprises at least one singularity representative of an end of the etching of the specimen. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is further coupled to a stage disposed within a process chamber of the etch tool, wherein the processor is further coupled to the etch tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the etch tool in response to the property using an in situ control technique. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the etch tool comprises a first process chamber and a second process chamber, wherein a stage coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer is configured to move the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the property of the specimen as the stage is moving the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber. 25. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare the property of the specimen and properties of a plurality of specimens. 26. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare the property of the specimen to a predetermined range for the property. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare the property of the specimen to a predetermined range for the property, and wherein the processor is further configured to generate an output signal if the property is outside of the predetermined range. 28. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a sampling frequency of the beam profile ellipsometer in response to the property. 29. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer in response to the property using a feedback control technique. 30. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer in response to the property using a feedforward control technique. 31. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database, and wherein the database comprises the property. 32. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the beam profile ellipsometer using the database. 33. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by beam profile ellipsometer using the database. 34. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database, wherein the database comprises the property and properties of a plurality of specimens, and wherein the properties of the plurality of specimens are determined using the beam profile ellipsometer. 35. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database, wherein the database comprises the property and properties of a plurality of specimens, and wherein the properties of the plurality of specimens are determined using a plurality of beam profile ellipsometers. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the processor is further coupled to the plurality of beam profile ellipsometers, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the plurality of beam profile ellipsometers using the database. 37. The system of claim 35, wherein the processor is further coupled to the plurality of beam profile ellipsometers, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by the plurality of beam profile ellipsometers using the database. 38. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system. 39. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled the system and at least one additional system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system and at least the one additional system. 40. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine the at least one property of the specimen at more than one position on the specimen, wherein the specimen comprises a wafer, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter at least one parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a process tool in response to the at least one property at the more than one position on the specimen to reduce within wafer variation of the at least one. 41. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the etch tool. 42. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the etch tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the etch tool in response to the property using a feedback control technique. 43. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the etch tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the etch tool in response to the property using a feedforward control technique. 44. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the etch tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the etch tool. 45. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the etch tool, wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the etch tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine a relationship between the property and at least one of the monitored parameters. 46. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the etch tool, wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the etch tool, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a relationship between the property and at least one of the monitored parameters, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of at least one of the one or more instruments in response to the relationship. 47. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a plurality of beam profile ellipsometers, and wherein at least one of the plurality of beam profile ellipsometers is coupled to an additional etch tool. 48. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a plurality of etch tools, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the plurality of etch tools. 49. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises a local processor coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the local processor is configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals, and wherein the remote controller computer is configured to further process the at least partially processed one or more output signals. 50. The system of claim 49, wherein the local processor is further configured to determine the property. 51. The system of claim 49, wherein the remote controller computer is further configured to determine the property. 52. A method for determining at least one property of a specimen, comprising: etching the specimen in an etch tool; directing an incident beam of light having a known polarization state to the specimen using an illumination system; detecting light returned from the specimen using a detection system, wherein the illumination system and the detection system comprise a beam profile ellipsometer, and wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is coupled to the etch tool; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected light; generating one or more output signals using an eddy current device, wherein the eddy current device is coupled to the etch tool; and processing the one or more output signals from the beam profile ellipsometer to determine a property of the specimen and one or more output signals from the eddy current device to determine a thickness of the specimen. 53. A computer-implemented method for controlling a system configured to determine at least one property of a specimen, wherein the system comprises a beam profile ellipsometer and an eddy current device, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer the and eddy current device are coupled to an etch tool, and wherein the etch tool is configured to etch the specimen, the method comprising: controlling the beam profile ellipsometer, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer comprises an illumination system and a detection system, comprising: controlling the illumination system to direct light to the specimen; controlling the detection system to detect light propagating from the specimen; and generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected light; and controlling the eddy current device to generate one or more output signals responsive to a thickness of the specimen; and processing the one or more output signals from the beam profile ellipsometer to determine a property of the specimen and one or more output signals from the eddy current device to determine a thickness of the specimen. 54. A method for fabricating a semiconductor device, comprising: etching a specimen using an etch tool; directing an incident beam of light having a known polarization state to the specimen using an illumination system; detecting light returned from the specimen using a detection system, wherein the illumination system and the detection system comprise a beam profile ellipsometer, and wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is coupled to the etch tool; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected light; generating one or more output signals using an eddy current device, wherein the eddy current device is coupled to the etch tool; and processing the one or more output signals responsive to the detected light to determine a property of the specimen and the one or more output signals from the eddy current device to determine a thickness of the specimen. 55. A system configured to determine at least one property of a specimen, comprising: an etch tool configured to etch the specimen; a beam profile ellipsometer coupled to the etch tool, comprising: an illumination system configured to direct an incident beam of light having a known polarization state to the specimen; and a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect light returned from the specimen, wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to the detected light; an eddy current device coupled to the etch tool and configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to a thickness of the specimen; a local processor coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer and the eddy current device and configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals from the beam profile ellipsometer and the eddy current device; and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the remote controller computer is configured to receive the at least partially processed one or more output signals and to further process the at least partially processed one or more output signals to determine a property of the specimen, from the one or more output signals generated by the beam profile ellipsometer and the thickness of the specimen from the one or more output signals generated by the eddy current device. 56. A method for determining at least one property of a specimen, comprising: etching the specimen using an etch tool; directing an incident beam of light having a known polarization state to the specimen using an illumination system; detecting light returned from the specimen using a detection system, wherein the illumination system and the detection system comprise a beam profile ellipsometer, and wherein the beam profile ellipsometer is coupled to the etch tool; generating one or more output signals responsive to the deteced light; generating one or more output signals responsive to a thickness of the spceimen using an eddy current device, wherein the eddy current device is coupled to the etch tool; and specimen using an eddy current device, wherein the eddy current device is processing the one or more output signals from the beam profile ellipsometer to determine a property of the specimen and one or more output signals from the eddy current device to determine the thickness of the specimen, comprising: at least partially processing the one or more output signals from the beam profile ellipsometer and the eddy current device using a local processor, wherein the local processor is coupled to the beam profile ellipsometer and the eddy current device; sending the at least partially processed one or more output signals from the local processor to a remote controller computer; and further processing the at least partially processed one or more output signals using the remote controller computer. 