A mooring robot releasably fastening a first moveable object (S) to a second nearby object. The first moveable object (S) moves in response to the application of external forces to the object (S). The robot operates to restore the first object (S) to a predetermined operating position. With the particular reference to the mooring of a vessel (S), the mooring robot has attractive attachment element(s) fixable to a ship's hull and includes a movement unit with active three-degree-of-freedom translation, for controlling the position of the attachment element(s). The movement includes a restorative means associated with each of the two degrees of translation freedom in the horizontal plane which provide a restorative force acting to return the attachment element(s) to the predetermined operating system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mooring robot for releasably fastening to a vessel, the mooring robot being fixable to a mounting, wherein the mounting is either a fixed or floating dock or a second vessel, the mooring robot comprising: an attractive attachment element for releasable engagement with a surface for making fast the vessel; a three axis translation unit mounted at the mounting and acting on an arm at one end of which the attractive element is fixed, the translation unit providing power-actuated translational movement to the arm to provide the displacement thereby of the attachment element in three dimensions; at least one actuator driving the arm to thereby displace the attachment element in a horizontal plane so as to move the vessel relative to the mounting in both the fore-and-aft and athwartship directions, the actuator being releasable from a driving condition to the arm to allow external forces to displace the vessel and the attachment element relative to the mounting in the horizontal plane from a selected moored position; and resilient means acting on the arm so as to resiliently bias the vessel and the attachment element toward the selected moored position, the resilient means acting in both the fore-and-aft and athwartship directions. 2. The mooring robot of claim 1, wherein the resilient means operates when the at least one actuator is released from the driving condition, the mooring robot further comprising a vertical actuator fixed to the translation unit for driving the arm to thereby displace the attachment element vertically, and wherein the vertical actuator is releasable from a driving condition to the arm to allow the vessel and the attachment element to freely rise and fall relative to the mounting. 3. The mooring robot of claim 1, wherein the resilient means provides a restorative force proportional to the displacement of the attachment element in the horizontal plane from the selected moored position. 4. The mooring robot of claim 3, wherein the resilient means releases energy to restore the attachment element to the selected moored position, the energy being stored during displacement of the attachment element from the selected moored position. 5. The mooring robot of claim 1, wherein said surface is the freeboard of the hull of a floating vessel. 6. The mooring robot of claim 1, wherein the attractive attachment element comprises at least one vacuum cup having a circumferential elastomeric seal. 7. The mooring robot of claim 1, wherein the arm is telescopically mounted from the translation unit so as to allow linear translational motion of the attachment element in a horizontal direction in the horizontal plane, the robot arm being mounted by the translation unit in a pivoted manner about a substantially vertical axis. 8. The mooring robot of claim 2, wherein said vertical actuator and at least one actuator comprise linear actuators and are fixed to the translation unit for driving the arm to displace the attachment element. 9. The mooring robot of claim 7, wherein said vertical actuator and at least one actuator comprise linear actuators and are fixed to the translation unit for driving the arm to displace the attachment element. 10. The mooring robot of claim 7, wherein the arm is mounted for sliding in vertical guides of the translation unit. 11. The mooring robot of claim 8, wherein the linear actuators are double-acting hydraulic rams. 12. The mooring robot of claim 10, further comprising a counterbalance counterbalancing a substantial portion of the weight of the arm. 13. The mooring robot of claim 7, wherein the attachment element further comprises a vacuum cup and vacuum cup mounting assembly fixed to a distal end of the telescoping arm. 14. The mooring robot of claim 13, wherein the vacuum cup mounting assembly is attached to the arm by a universal joint permitting limited rotation of the attractive element relative to the arm and perpendicular to the axis thereof. 15. The mooring robot of claim 1, wherein the mounting is a dock and wherein the mooring robot is mounted on the front face of and below the top of the dock and is retractable within a fender line of the dock. 16. The mooring robot of claim 8, wherein the linear actuators are double-acting hydraulic rams. 17. The mooring robot of claim 1, wherein the translation unit comprises shock absorbing means for absorbing mooring forces between the attachment element and the mounting. 18. The mooring robot of claim 1, wherein said surface is fixed relative to said mounting. 19. The mooring robot of claim 1, wherein the three dimensions comprise two substantially perpendicular axes of rotation and a translational axis arranged substantially perpendicular to the plane of the two axes of rotation. 20. A mooring system comprising at least two mooring robots for releasably fastening a vessel, each said robot being fixable to a mounting, wherein the mounting is either a fixed or floating dock or a second vessel, the mooring robot comprising: an attractive attachment element for releasable engagement with a surface for making fast the vessel; an arm; a three axis translation unit mounted at the mounting and acting on the arm at one end of which the attractive element is fixed, the translation unit providing power-actuated translational movement to the arm to provide the displacement thereby of the attachment element in three dimensions; at least one actuator driving the arm to thereby displace the attachment element in a horizontal plane so as to move the vessel relative to the mounting in both the fore-and-aft and athwartship directions, the actuator being releasable from a driving condition to the arm to allow external forces to displace the vessel and the attachment element relative to the mounting in the horizontal plane from a selected moored position; and resilient means acting on the arm so as to resiliently bias the vessel and the attachment element toward the selected moored position, the resilient means acting in both the fore-and-aft and athwartship directions; and a power/control unit monitoring and controlling the operating condition of each mooring robot. 21. The mooring system of claim 20 wherein the power/control unit monitoring and controlling each mooring robot is linked to alarms of the vessel. 22. The mooring system of claim 20, wherein the three dimensions comprise two substantially perpendicular axes of rotation and a translational axis arranged substantially perpendicular to the plane of the two axes of rotation. 23. The mooring system of claim 20, further comprising a remote control unit configured to remotely control operation of the mooring system. 24. The mooring system of claim 23, wherein the remote control unit is arranged on a dock. 25. The mooring system of claim 20, wherein the power/control unit is connected to the mooring robots via service lines. 