A submersible robotic pool cleaner is provided with an integral sealed rechargeable battery and an inductive charging assembly, a first portion of which is mounted in the pool cleaner housing and during the charging, receives a second separate portion that is connected by a cable to a conventional power source. The pump motor drive shaft is treated with a specialized anti-friction lubricant composition to minimize frictional energy losses where the shaft contacts the seal(s) and any shaft bearing(s), to maximize efficiency and minimize the power consumption of the pump motor assembly and permit the pool cleaner to completely traverse the surfaces to be cleaned within the fully-charged power capacity of the battery.
Claims We claim: 1. A self-propelled, submersible pool cleaner comprising: a) an integral sealed rechargeable battery; b) a sealed water pump motor electrically connected to said battery, said motor having a shaft on which is mounted an impeller; and c) a waterproof sealed first portion of an inductive charging assembly electrically connected to said battery, said first portion of the inductive charging assembly being permanently affixed to said pool cleaner, said first portion of the inductive charging assembly having an aperture for receiving a sealed second portion of the inductive charging assembly adapted to be connected to an external power supply, wherein the aperture in the first portion of the inductive charging assembly receives the second portion in mating relation for recharging said battery while maintaining the first and second portions sealed. 2. The pool cleaner of claim 1, wherein the battery produces a voltage in the range of from 6 volts to 12 volts. 3. The pool cleaner of claim 1, wherein the battery is connected to the pump motor through a switch. 4. The pool cleaner of claim 1, wherein the pump impeller is a propeller. 5. The pool cleaner of claim 1, wherein the pump motor operates on twelve volts. 6. The pool cleaner of claim 1, which further comprises a housing, wherein the battery is positioned inside of the housing. 7. The pool cleaner of claim 6, which further comprises a switch mounted on said housing, whereby the power from the battery can be interrupted when the switch is moved to an off position. 8. The pool cleaner of claim 7, wherein the switch is a light-sensitive optical switch for interrupting the power to the pump and drive motors. 9. The pool cleaner of claim 7, wherein the switch is a toggle switch. 10. The pool cleaner of claim 1, which further comprises a drive motor electrically connected to the battery for propelling the pool cleaner. 11. A battery-powered submersible pool cleaner comprising a pool cleaner housing, an integral rechargeable battery secured to said housing, and a waterproof sealed inductive charging assembly, at least a first portion of which is secured to said housing and is electrically connected to the battery, wherein a sealed second portion of the inductive charging assembly mates with the first portion while maintaining the first and second portions sealed. 12. The pool cleaner of claim 11 that further includes an integral water pump and which is moved by the discharge of water from the water pump. 13. The pool cleaner of claim 11 that includes a programmed microprocessor and controller and which is programmed to move in a generally rectilinear path over the bottom surface of a pool or tank. 14. The pool cleaner of claim 11 in which the second portion of the inductive charging assembly is received in mating relation in a recess of the first portion connected to the battery. 15. The pool cleaner of claim 14 in which the second portion includes a power cable and is of waterproof construction. 