Apparatuses and methods of processing a substrate. The apparatus includes a wet-cleaning chamber, a drying chamber, and a substrate transferring chamber which transfers a substrate to and from the wet-cleaning chamber and the drying chamber. The drying chamber is one of a supercritical drying chamber or a low pressure drying chamber. The wet-cleaning chamber is one of a single-wafer cleaning chamber, a horizontal spinning chamber, a megasonic wet-cleaning chamber, or a horizontal spinning chamber having acoustic waves transmitted to the substrate.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for cleaning a substrate comprises a wafer, said method comprising: cleaning the substrate in a wet-cleaning chamber; drying the substrate in the wet-cleaning chamber; transferring the substrate from the wet-cleaning chamber to a supercritical drying chamber; and drying the substrate in the supercritical drying chamber using drying gas that is able to transition into a supercritical fluid; wherein each of the wet-cleaning chamber and the supercritical drying chamber is coupled to a substrate transferring chamber which transfers the substrate to and from the wet-cleaning chamber and the drying chamber. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein cleaning the substrate occurs in a single-wafer cleaning chamber. 3. A method as in claim 1 wherein the cleaning of the substrate occurs in a megasonic wet-cleaning chamber. 4. A method as in claim 1 wherein the cleaning of the substrate occurs in a horizontal spinning chamber. 5. A method as in claim 1 wherein the cleaning of the substrate occurs in a horizontal spinning chamber having sonic waves sent to a non-device side of the substrate. 6. A method as in claim 1 further comprising transferring the substrate to an inspection chamber and inspecting the substrate wherein the inspection chamber is coupled to the substrate transferring chamber. 7. A method as in claim 1 further comprising: pressurizing and heating the drying gas in a preparation chamber that is coupled to the supercritical drying chamber such that the drying gas transitions into the supercritical fluid; and delivering the supercritical fluid to the supercritical drying chamber. 8. A method as in claim 7 wherein the pressurizing and heating the drying gas in a preparation chamber includes: pressurizing the preparation chamber to a predetermined pressure; and heating the preparation chamber to a predetermined temperature. 9. A method as in claim 8 wherein the drying gas is CO.sub.2, the predetermined pressure is 1200 psi or greater, and the predetermined temperature is about 31.degree. C. or greater. 10. A method as in claim 1 further comprising converting the drying gas into the supercritical fluid which dries that substrate in the supercritical drying chamber. 11. A method as in claim 10 the converting the drying gas into the supercritical fluid includes: pressurizing the supercritical drying chamber to a predetermined pressure; and heating the supercritical drying chamber to a predetermined temperature. 12. A method as in claim 11 wherein the drying gas is CO.sub.2, the predetermined pressure is 1200 psi or greater, and the predetermined temperature is about 31.degree. C. or greater. 13. A method as in claim 1 wherein drying the substrate in the supercritical drying chamber occurs for a predetermined amount of time sufficient to dry the substrate. 14. A method as in claim 13 wherein the predetermined amount of time sufficient to dry the substrate ranges from 30 seconds to 120 seconds. 15. A method as in claim 1 wherein the substrate includes a material having pores. 16. A method as in claim 15 wherein the pores have residual liquids and wherein drying the substrate in the supercritical drying chamber includes the supercritical fluid dissolving the residual liquids in the pores. 17. A method as in claim 1 wherein the substrate includes a low-k dielectric material having pores. 18. A method as in claim 17 wherein the pores have residual liquids and wherein the drying of the substrate in the supercritical drying chamber includes the supercritical fluid dissolving the residual liquids in the pores. 19. A method as in claim 1 further comprising: filtering a used drying gas in a waste container connecting to the supercritical drying chamber to obtain a filtered drying gas; delivering the filtered drying gas to a preparation chamber connecting to the supercritical drying chamber; converting the drying gas into the supercritical fluid, wherein the converting includes; pressurizing the heading filtered drying gas to a predetermined pressure and the filtered drying gas to a predetermined temperature in the preparation chamber; and delivering the supercritical fluid to the supercritical drying chamber. 20. A method as in claim 1 wherein transferring the substrate from the wet-cleaning chamber to a supercritical drying chamber is preformed by a robot included in the substrate transferring chamber. 