A system for tele-operating a robot in an environment includes a user interface for controlling the tele-operation of the robot, an imaging device associated with the robot for providing image information representative of the environment around the robot, means for transmitting the image information to the user interface, means for converting the image information to a user-perceptible image at the user interface, means for designating one or more waypoints located anywhere in the user-perceptible image towards which the robot will move, the waypoint in the user-perceptible image towards which the robot will first move being designated as the active waypoint using an icon, means for automatically converting the location of the active waypoint in the user-perceptible image into a target location having x, y, and z coordinates in the environment of the robot, means for providing real-time instructions to the robot from the user interface to move the robot from the robot's current location in the environment to the x, y, and z coordinates of the target location in the environment, and means for moving the icon representing the active waypoint in the user-perceptible image to a new location in the user-perceptible image while the robot is executing the real-time instruction, wherein the location-converting means automatically converts the new location of the icon representing the active waypoint into a new target location having x, y, and z coordinates in the environment of the robot towards which the robot will move.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for tele-operating a robot in an environment, comprising: a user interface for controlling the tele-operation of the robot; an imaging device associated with the robot for providing image information representative of the environment around the robot; means for transmitting the image information to the user interface; means for converting the image information to a user-perceptible image at the user interface; means for designating one or more waypoints located anywhere in the user-perceptible image towards which the robot will move, the waypoint in the user-perceptible image towards which the robot will first move being designated as the active waypoint using an icon; means for automatically converting the location of the active waypoint in the user-perceptible image into a target location having x, y, and z coordinates in the environment of the robot; means for providing real-time instructions to the robot from the user interface to move the robot from the robot's current location in the environment to the x, y, and z coordinates of the target location in the environment; and means for moving the icon representing the active waypoint in the user-perceptible image to a new location in the user-perceptible image while the robot is executing the real-time instructions; wherein the location-converting means automatically converts the new location of the icon representing the active waypoint into a new target location having x, y, and z coordinates in the environment of the robot towards which the robot will move. 2. The robot tele-operating system of claim 1 wherein the active waypoint moving means comprises: means for selecting and dragging the icon representing the active waypoint to the new location in the user-perceptible image; and means for dropping the icon at the new location in the user-perceptible image. 3. The robot tele-operating system of claim 2 wherein the active waypoint moving means comprises a mouse having a click button configured to act as said selecting and dragging means and said dropping means wherein depressing and holding of the click button permits a user to select and drag the icon representing the active waypoint to the new location in the user-perceptible image and releasing of the click button drops the icon representing the active waypoint at the new location in the user-perceptible image. 4. The robot tele-operating system of claim 2 wherein the active waypoint moving means comprises: means for moving the icon representing the active waypoint a predetermined amount in the user-perceptible image to the new location wherein the predetermined amount of movement of the icon is with respect to a directional vector defined between the robot's current location and the location of the active waypoint. 5. The robot tele-operating system of claim 4 wherein the icon-moving means is operative to move the icon representing the active waypoint the predetermined amount along the directional vector away from or towards the robot. 6. The robot tele-operating system of claim 4 wherein the icon-moving means is operative to move the icon representing the active waypoint the predetermined amount orthogonal to the directional vector. 7. The robot tele-operating system of claim 4 wherein the icon-moving means is operative to move the icon representing the active waypoint the predetermined amount along the directional vector away from or towards the robot and to move the icon representing the active waypoint the predetermined amount orthogonal to the directional vector. 8. The robot tele-operating system of claim 2 wherein the active waypoint moving means comprises: means for rotating the icon representing the active waypoint a predetermined angle in the user-perceptible image to the new location wherein the predetermined angle of rotation of the icon is with respect to a directional vector defined between the robot's current location and the location of the active waypoint. 9. The robot tele-operating system of claim 1 wherein the real-time instructions prohibit movement of the robot in the environment until the active waypoint has completed movement to the new location in the user-perceptible image. 10. The robot tele-operating system of claim 1 wherein the real-time instructions allow movement of the robot in the environment while the active waypoint is being moved to the new location in the user-perceptible image. 