A mold assembly for blow molding plastic articles is provided having an upper mold member, a lower mold member and a lower support member. The lower mold member is preferably a relatively lightweight plate having a generally centrally located molding cavity matingly matched with an upper molding cavity in the upper mold member. The lower mold member is moved horizontally and optionally vertically beneath an extrusion head as a molten parison is extruded. The lower mold member is then transported to, and positioned within, the lower support member. The upper mold member is then closed over the lower mold member and lower support to close the mold assembly. The molten parison is then expanded in the mold cavity. After the molding operation, the plastic part may be removed and the lower mold member may be cooled by immersion in a cooling fluid. The apparatus to move the lower mold member during extrusion of the parison and to the molding station may be a robotic arm. The lower mold member is relatively lightweight so that it may be efficiently moved by the robot arm while the necessary structural support is provided by the lower support member.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for blow molding a plastic article comprising: (a) providing a mold assembly having: (i) an upper mold member having an upper molding cavity; (ii) a lower support member; and (iii) a lower mold member having a lower molding cavity, said lower molding cavity being shaped to co-operate with said upper molding cavity, said lower mold member being matingly receivable in said lower support member; (b) extruding a parison from an extrusion head; (c) moving said lower mold member beneath said extrusion head as said parison is extruded so that said parison is received in said lower molding cavity; (d) translating said lower mold member and said parison to adjacent said lower support member; (e) positioning said lower molding member in said lower support member; (f) closing said mold assembly by moving said upper mold member toward said lower support member with said lower mold member positioned intermediate said upper mold member and said lower support member; (g) expanding said parison. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said upper mold member and said lower support member are positioned remote from said extrusion head. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: (a) opening said mold assembly by removing said upper mold member from said lower support member; (b) removing said lower mold member from said lower support member; and (c) cooling said lower mold member. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said cooling comprises applying a fluid to said lower mold member. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein said cooling comprises substantially immersing said lower mold member in a liquid. 