A data library comprising a plurality of partitions, at least one data transfer element, each of the data transfer elements assigned to one of the partitions and assigned an internally unique element address, a plurality of data storage element slots, each of the slots assigned to a partition and assigned an internally unique element address, at least one media transport element shared by the partitions to move media between the slots and the at least one data transfer elements, the transport assigned an internally unique element address, and a library controller that assigns a different logical unit designation to each of the partitions and that assigns external element addresses to the transport, the data transfer elements, and the slots for each of the partitions and maps the internally unique addresses to the external addresses, the controller restricting movement of media to and from the slots assigned to a same of the partitions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data library adapted to be attached to a storage area network, said library comprising: a plurality of partitions; at least one data transfer element assigned to one of said partitions and assigned an internally unique element address; a plurality of data storage element slots, each of said slots assigned to a partition and assigned an internally unique element address; at least one media transport element shared by said partitions to move media between said slots and said at least one data transfer elements, said transport assigned an internally unique element address; and a library controller that assigns a different logical unit designation to each of said partitions and that assigns external element addresses to said at least one transport element, said at least one data transfer element, and said slots for each of said partitions and maps said internally unique addresses to said external addresses, said controller restricting movement of media to and from said slots assigned to a same of said partitions. 2. The library of claim 1 wherein said library controller restricts movement of said media to and from said at least one data transfer elements, said slots assigned to a same partition and said at least one data transfer elements assigned to a same of said partitions. 3. The library of claim 1 wherein each of said partitions comprise at least one of said data transfer elements and at least one of said slots corresponding to as an existing data library model of a plurality of existing library models. 4. The library of claim 3 wherein said controller identifies each of said partitions to a user as said corresponding existing data library model. 5. The library of claim 3 wherein said controller responds to an inquiry command by providing at least one response of a group of responses consisting of: a vendor of said corresponding existing data library model, a product identification for said corresponding existing data library model, and a product revision level of said corresponding existing data library model. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one of said slots in at least one of said partitions is defined as an import/export slot. 7. The library of claim 1 wherein said controller employs said internally unique element address of said transport in response to a move medium command to carry out said command. 8. The library of claim 1 wherein said external element addresses for each partition begin with a same element number. 9. The library of claim 1 wherein said controller identifies a user of said storage area network by which logical unit designation said user addresses. 10. A method for partitioning a data library adapted to be attached to a storage area network, said method comprising: assigning a different logical unit designation to each of a plurality of library partitions; numbering at least one media transport, a plurality of data transfer elements and a plurality of storage element slots with a set of unique internal element numbers, each said slots adapted to store media, each of said data transfer elements adapted to receive said media and transfer data to and from said media and said at least one transport adapted to move said media between said slots and said data transfer elements; establishing said partitions in said data library, each of said partitions comprising at least one of said slots, at least one of said data transfer elements and at least one of said at least one transports; renumbering said transport, slots and data transfer elements in each of said partitions with externally presented element numbers starting from a same externally presented element number for each partition; mapping said externally presented element numbers for each of said partitions to said internal element numbers; and controlling movement of said media to and from said slots assigned to a same partition. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said controlling comprises controlling movement of said media to and from said data transfer elements assigned to a same partition, wherein said slots assigned to a same partition and said data transfer elements assigned to a same partition are assigned to a same partition. 12. The method of claim 10 further comprising: employing said internal element address of said transport in response to a move medium command. 13. The method of claim 10 further comprising: defining at least one of said slots as an import/export slot. 14. The method of claim 10 further comprising: identifying a user of said storage area network by which logical unit designation said user addresses. 15. The method of claim 10 wherein said establishing includes establishing each of said partitions with a number of said slots and a number of said data transfer elements corresponding to an existing data library model. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising: identifying each of said partitions to a user as said corresponding existing data library model. 17. The method of claim 10 further comprising: responding to an inquiry command by providing at least one response of a group of responses consisting of: a vendor of an existing data library model, a product identification for an existing data library model, and a product revision level of an existing data library model. 18. A partitioned storage area network with an attached data library, said network comprising: a data storage array that is divided into a plurality of partitions; and a library management interface that accepts user input partitioning said library and assigns a logical unit number to library partitions, said library comprising: a plurality of data transfer elements, each of said data transfer elements assigned to one of said partitions and assigned an internally unique element address; a plurality of data storage element slots, each of said slots assigned to one of said partitions and assigned an internally unique element address; at least one media transport element, said at least one media transport element shared by said partitions to move media between said slots and said data transfer elements, said transport assigned an internally unique element address; and a library controller that assigns external element addresses to said transport, data transfer elements, and slots for each of said partitions and maps said internal addresses to said external addresses for each of said partitions, said controller restricting movement of media between said slots, data transfer elements assigned to a same one of said partitions. 19. The network of claim 18 wherein each of said partitions comprise a number of said data transfer elements and a number of said slots corresponding to as an existing data library model of a plurality of existing library models. 20. The network of claim 19 wherein said controller identifies each of said partitions to a user as said corresponding existing data library model. 21. The network of claim 18 wherein said controller responds to an inquiry command by providing at least one response of a group of responses consisting of: a vendor of an existing data library model, a product identification for an existing data library model, and a product revision level of an existing data library model. 22. The network of claim 18 wherein said external element addresses for each partition begins with a same element address. 23. The network of claim 18 wherein at least one of said slots in at least one of said partitions is defined as an import/export slot. 24. The network of claim 18 wherein said controller identifies a network user by which logical unit number it addresses. 