Non-symmetrical molded articles, such as large preforms, are handled by a handling system into which an array of molded articles are transferred from a mold having a pitch separation The handling system has an arranging station configured to receive and align a first set of molded articles, which arranging station is further configured to receive and align a second set of molded articles in an opposingly orientated direction to the first set. To reduce the pitch separation, the arranging station includes a closure mechanism that brings together the first and second sets of molded articles in a substantially linear array. Once in the linear array, a handling device operates to pick up and crate the linear array of preforms. Transfer and pick-up of the preforms can be accomplished using a multi-function, multi-axis robot that supports take-out tubes and suction pads.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A handling device for handling molded articles comprising an arranging station; said arranging station comprising: a first longitudinal receiving plate for receiving, in use, a first end of at least one article; said first receiving plate including at least one holder for holding said at least one article on said first receiving plate, and said first receiving plate having a first pivot axis; a second longitudinal receiving plate for receiving, in use, a first end of at least one article; said second receiving plate including at least one holder for holding said at least one article on said second receiving plate, and said second receiving plate having a second pivot axis substantially parallel to said first pivot axis; and an actuator for pivoting said first and second receiving plates about their respective pivot axis so as to bring said articles side-by-side in a linear array between said receiving plates. 2. The handling device according to claim 1, further including multiple first and second sets of receiving plates. 3. The handling device according to claim 1, wherein said first receiving plate includes a plurality of said first holders that are arranged in a row along said first receiving plate for receiving a first row of articles, and said second receiving plate includes a plurality of said second holders that are arranged in a row along said second receiving plate for receiving a second row of articles, and said holders are arranged on respective receiving plates such that when, in use, said articles are placed on said holders, a gap of at least the width of an article exists between adjacent articles. 4. The handling device according to claim 1, wherein said arranging station further comprises means for longitudinally displacing one receiving plate with respect to the other. 5. The handling device according to claim 1, wherein said holders are pegs mounted on said receiving plates, said pegs being dimensioned so as to engage said end of said articles. 6. The handling device according to claim 1, wherein said arranging station further comprises release means for releasing said articles from said holders. 7. The handling device according to claim 6, wherein said release means are pusher means for pushing said articles off said holders. 8. The handling device according to claim 6, wherein said release means are means for retracting said holders into said receiving plates. 9. The handling device according to claim 6, wherein said arranging station further comprises support means for supporting said articles after they have been released from said receiving plates. 10. The handling device according to claim 6, wherein said arranging station further comprises alignment means for aligning and/or bringing together said articles after they have been released from said receiving plates. 11. The handling device according to claim 1, further comprising a robot for transferring, in use, said articles from a mold of said molding machine to said receiving plates. 12. The handling device according to claim 11, wherein said robot comprises: a take-out plate for receiving said articles from said mold; and a robot arm for operating said take-out plate so as to transfer said articles from said mold onto said first and second holders on said receiving plates. 13. The handling device according to claim 12, wherein said take-out plate further comprises take-out tubes for receiving said molded articles therein. 14. The handling device according to claim 13, wherein said take-out plate further comprises cooling means for cooling said articles. 15. The handling device according to claim 13, wherein said robot further comprises transport means for transporting said articles, arranged side-by-side, to a shipping crate or the like. 16. The handling device according to claim 15, wherein said transport means comprises suction means arranged on said take-off plate. 17. The handling device according to claim 1, wherein said articles are large injection molded preforms, said preforms having a weight of at least 100 g, a length of at least 20 cm and a diameter of at least 5 cm. 18. An apparatus for handling molded articles comprising: a robotic transfer device that includes a first handling means thereon for, in use, receiving said molded articles in an array from a mold and transferring said array of molded articles to an arranging station, said mold having a pitch separation; and said arranging station which comprises: means for receiving and aligning a first set of articles of said array; means for receiving and aligning a second set of articles of said array; means for grouping said first set and said second set of articles together in a linear array, said means for grouping being arranged to permit the pitch separation between adjacent articles to be reduced; and said robotic transfer device further comprises: a second handling means thereon that is configured for receiving, in use, said linear array from said arranging station and thereafter delivering and depositing said molded articles. 19. The handling device according to claim 18, further including means for receiving and aligning a plurality of said first and second sets of molded articles. 20. The handling device according to claim 18, wherein the means for receiving and aligning the first and second set of molded articles are pins extending from a first and a second receiving plate respectively. 21. The handling device according to claim 20, wherein the pins are hollow pins that are selectively connected, in use, to a source of cooling fluid. 22. The handling device according to claim 18, wherein the means for transferring the array is a take-out plate including a plurality of take-out holders. 23. The handling device according to claim 22, wherein the take-out plate has the transport means located adjacent thereto. 24. The handling device according to claim 22, wherein the take-out plate includes at least twice the number of take-out holders as there are injection molded articles produced during each cycle of the injection molding machine. 25. The handling device according to claim 22, said means for transferring includes a robot that rotates, in use, the take-out plate to cause opposite longitudinal orientation of said second set of articles relative to said first set of articles on said transport means. 26. The handling device according to claim 18, wherein said arranging station further includes means for orientating said second set of articles relative to said first set of articles such that said second set of articles are orientated in an opposing direction to said first set of articles. 27. A method for handling molded articles comprising the steps of: receiving said articles in a take-out plate and operating said take-out plate so as to place at least one article onto a first longitudinal receiving plate and at least one article onto a second longitudinal receiving plate, said first and second receiving plates each comprising at least one holder for holding said articles on said receiving plates, said first and second receiving plates having substantially parallel pivot axis; and pivoting said first and second receiving plates about their respective pivot axis, said first and second receiving plates being pivoted so as to bring said articles side-by-side between said receiving plates in a linear array. 28. A method for handling molded articles using a robot supporting a multi-function take-out plate, the molded articles formed in a multi-cavity mold having a first pitch separation between adjacently molded articles, the method comprising: using the take-out plate to remove and transfer an array of molded articles from the mold; placing a plurality of sets of molded articles of said array onto a plurality of sets of pins; and manipulating the robot arm in a sequence to pick up the molded articles from the plurality of sets of pins in a linear array for subsequent delivery and deposition, the linear array of molded articles on the robot having a reduced pitch separation between adjacent injection molded articles relative to the first pitch separation in the mold. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the step of placing the plurality of sets of molded articles occurs after repositioning of the take-out plate by the robot. 30. The method of claim 28, further comprising proactively cooling the molded articles during at least one of: the transfer of the molded articles from the mold; and location of the molded articles on the pins. 31. A handling device for handling molded articles comprising an arranging station; said arranging station comprising: a support table; a first longitudinal receiving plate pivotably mounted to said support table about a first pivot axis that is substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of said first receiving plate; a first holder arranged on said first receiving plate for holding, in use, an end of a first molded article on said first receiving plate; a second longitudinal receiving plate pivotably mounted to said support table about a second pivot axis that is substantially parallel to both a longitudinal axis of said second receiving plate and said first pivot axis; a second holder arranged on said second receiving plate for holding, in use, an end of a second molded article on said second receiving plate; said first and second receiving plates being pivotable about said first and second pivot axes, respectively, between a loading position and an interlacing position; said first and second receiving plates being mutually positioned on said support table to include a spacing therebetween that is sufficient to at least partially interlace, in use, said first and second molded articles when said first and second receiving plates are in their interlacing position, and wherein said first and second holders, located thereon, are arranged in a staggered relation to the extent that a longitudinal gap of at least the width of an article exists therebetween; an actuator for pivoting said first and second receiving plates about their respective pivot axis so as to bring said articles side-by-side in a linear array between said receiving plates; and a means for releasing said articles from said first and second holders. 32. The handling device according to claim 31, further including multiple first and second sets of receiving plates. 33. The handling device according to claim 31, wherein said first receiving plate includes a plurality of said first holders that are arranged in a row along said first receiving plate for receiving a first row of articles; said second receiving plate includes a plurality of said second holders that are arranged in a row along said second receiving plate for receiving a second row of articles; and said holders are arranged on respective receiving plates such that when, in use, said articles are placed on said holders, a gap of at least the width of an article exists between adjacent articles. 34. The handling device according to claim 31, wherein said arranging station further comprises means for longitudinally displacing one receiving plate with respect to the other such that the first and second holders may be mutually aligned mutually aligned for receiving molded articles simultaneously. 35. The handling device according to claim 31, wherein said holders are pegs mounted on said receiving plates, said pegs being dimensioned so as to engage said end of said articles. 36. The handling device according to claim 31, wherein said release means are pusher means for pushing said articles off said holders. 37. The handling device according to claim 31, wherein said release means are means for retracting said holders into said receiving plates. 38. The handling device according to claim 31, wherein said arranging station further comprises support means for supporting said articles after they have been released from said receiving plates. 39. The handling device according to claim 31, wherein said arranging station further comprises alignment means for aligning and/or bringing together said articles after they have been released from said receiving plates. 40. The handling device according to claim 31, further comprising a robot for transferring, in use, said articles from a mold of said molding machine to said receiving plates. 41. The handling device according to claim 40, wherein said robot comprises: a take-out plate for receiving said articles from said mold; and a robot arm for operating said take-out plate so as to transfer said articles from said mold onto said first and second holders on said receiving plates. 42. The handling device according to claim 41, wherein said take-out plate further comprises take-out tubes for receiving said freshly molded articles therein. 43. The handling device according to claim 41, wherein said take-out plate further comprises cooling means for cooling said articles. 44. The handling device according to claim 41, wherein said robot further comprises transport means for transporting said articles, arranged side-by-side, to a shipping crate or the like. 45. The handling device according to claim 44, wherein said transport means comprises suction means arranged on said take-off plate. 46. The handling device according to claim 31, wherein said articles are large injection molded preforms, said preforms having a weight of at least 100 g, a length of at least 20 cm and a diameter of at least 5 cm. 