An adaptive welding method and apparatus adjusts the amount of weld material deposited in a fillet weld based on gap width and gap orientation. The method includes the step of obtaining nominal area information identifying a nominal weld cross sectional area between a first plate and a second plate to be welded. The method further includes the step of obtaining gap width information identifying a width of a gap between the first plate and the second plate. The method still further includes the step of determining a supplemental area defining the cross sectional area in excess of the nominal weld cross sectional area, the determination based on the gap width information and a predetermined gap orientation. The method yet further includes the step of controlling one or more weld parameters based on the nominal area information and the determined supplemental area.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a welding operation, the method comprising the steps of: obtaining nominal area information identifying a nominal weld cross sectional area between a first plate and a second plate to be welded; obtaining gap width information identifying a width of a gap between the first plate and the second plate; determining a supplemental area defining the cross sectional area in excess of the nominal weld cross sectional area, the determination based on the gap width information and a predetermined gap orientation; and controlling one or more weld parameters based on the nominal area information and the determined supplemental area. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising a step of determining adjusted nominal area information if the width of the gap exceeds a predetermined threshold, wherein: the controlling step further comprises adjusting said one or more weld parameters based on the determined supplemental area and the adjusted nominal area information. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of determining the supplemental area further comprises: obtaining a select supplemental area relationship based at least in part on a gap orientation value, and using the select supplemental area relationship to determine the supplemental area. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein obtaining the select supplemental area relationship includes obtaining a select supplemental area relationship that comprises one or more linear functions, each linear function corresponding to one of a plurality of orientations of the gap. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the welding torch further includes a wire feed mechanism, and the controlling step includes the step of adjusting the rate at which the wire feed mechanism supplies wire to the welding torch. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the welding torch further includes a movement device which moves the welding torch from a first location to a second location, and the controlling step includes the step of adjusting the rate at which the movement device moves from the first location to the second location. 7. An apparatus for controlling one or more weld parameters of an automated welding device, said weld parameters including a movement rate and a wire feed rate of said automated welding device, the apparatus comprising: a) a memory device for storing weld parameters; b) a weld torch assembly operable to perform a weld between a first plate and a second plate; and c) a processing unit connected to said memory device and said weld torch assembly, said processing unit being operable to obtain weld parameters from said memory and control the operation of the weld torch assembly based on said weld parameters, obtain nominal area information identifying a nominal weld cross sectional area between a first plate and a second plate from said memory device, obtain gap width information identifying a width of a gap between said first plate and said second plate from said memory device, determine a supplemental area defining a cross section area in excess of said nominal weld cross sectional area, said determination based on said gap width information and a predetermined gap orientation, and adjust one or more of said weld parameters based on said nominal area information and said supplemental area. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising a sensor, wherein said sensor provides said memory device with said gap width information the width of the gap between said first plate and said second plate. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said sensor comprises an optical sensor. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said weld torch assembly further comprises a wire feed mechanism which is operable to supply wire to said welding torch at a controllably variable rate, and wherein said processing unit is further operable to cause said wire feed mechanism to adjust the rate at which wire is supplied to said welding torch based on the adjusted weld parameters. 11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the weld torch assembly further comprises a movement device which moves said welding torch along a joint between said first plate and said second plate, and wherein said processing unit is further operable to cause said movement device to adjust the rate at which the welding torch moves along said joint. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said movement device comprises a robotic arm. 13. An apparatus for controlling one or more weld parameters of an automated welding device, said weld parameters including a movement rate and a wire feed rate of said automated welding device, the apparatus comprising: a) a memory device for storing weld parameters; b) a weld torch assembly operable to perform a fillet weld between a first plate and a second plate; and c) a processing unit connected to said memory device and said weld torch assembly, said processing unit being operable to obtain weld parameters from said memory and control the operation of the weld torch assembly based on said weld parameters, obtain nominal area information identifying a nominal weld cross sectional area between a first plate and a second plate from said memory device, obtain gap width information identifying a width of a gap between said first plate and said second plate from said memory device, determine a supplemental area defining a cross section area in excess of said nominal weld cross sectional area, said determination based on said gap width information, and adjust one or more of said weld parameters based on said nominal area information and said supplemental area. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a sensor, wherein said sensor provides said memory device with said gap width information the width of the gap between said first plate and said second plate. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said sensor comprises an optical sensor. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the weld torch assembly further comprises a wire feed mechanism which is operable to supply wire to said welding torch at a controllably variable rate, and wherein said processing unit is further operable to cause said wire feed mechanism to adjust the rate at which wire is supplied to said welding torch based on the adjusted weld parameters. 17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the weld torch assembly further comprises a movement device which moves said welding torch along a joint between said first plate and said second plate, and wherein said processing unit is further operable to cause said movement device to adjust the rate at which the welding torch moves along said joint. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said movement device comprises a robotic arm. 