The solvent and air mixing system is used in an air solvent purging/cleaning system for an at least two liquid component mixing and applying system or a paint color changing system. The mixing and applying system includes at least two sources of liquid coupled to a mixer through respective control valves. An air solvent purging/cleaning system is provided including an air supply line and an air purge valve and a solvent supply line and a solvent purge valve coupled to the mixing and applying system or to a paint color changing system. A pneumatic valve control system is provided for controlling the supply of pressurized air to the air purge valve and for controlling the supply of solvent to the solvent purge valve. The solvent and air mixing system of the present invention includes a solvent and air mixing device having an air passageway coupled into the supply line for supplying pressurized air to the air purge valve. An air bleed backflow device is mounted in the pressurized air supply line. A solvent valve is coupled to the solvent supply line and to the solvent and air mixing device and communicates with a transverse passageway that opens onto, and is in communication with, the air passageway in the solvent and air mixing device. Control structures are coupled to the solvent valve for controlling operation of the solvent valve and for controlling the amount of solvent delivered from the solvent valve through the transverse passageway to the air passageway in the solvent and air mixing device. Preferably, part of the control structure is the pneumatic valve control system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A solvent and air mixing system for use in an air solvent purging/cleaning system for an at least two liquid component mixing and applying system or a paint color changing system; the mixing and applying system including at least two sources of liquid coupled to a mixer through respective control valves; said air solvent purging/cleaning system including an air supply line and an air purge valve and a solvent supply line and a solvent purge valve; means for supplying pressurized air to the air purge valve; means for supplying solvent to the solvent purge valve; and a pneumatic control system for controlling the operation of the air solvent purge system including control of the air purge valve and the solvent purge valve; said solvent and air mixing system including a solvent and air mixing device having an air passageway coupled into the supply line for supplying pressurized air to the air purge valve; an air bleed backflow device mounted in said pressurized air supply line for bleeding air and backflow liquid out of said air supply line to prevent contamination of said means for supplying pressurized air in the event of a breakdown in said purging/cleaning system that results in backflow of liquid through said solvent and air mixing system; a solvent valve for controlling delivery of solvent to said solvent and air mixing device, said solvent valve having an inlet coupled to the means for supplying solvent and an outlet coupled to said solvent and air mixing device air and communicating with a transverse passageway in the solvent and air mixing device that opens onto said air passageway in said solvent and air mixing device; means coupled to said solvent valve for controlling operation of said solvent valve; and means for controlling the amount of solvent delivered from said solvent valve through said transverse passageway to said air passage in said solvent and air mixing device. 2. The solvent and air mixing system of claim 1 including a check valve in said air pressurized air supply line located upstream from said solvent and air mixing device and downstream from said air bleed backflow device. 3. The solvent and air mixing system of claim 1 wherein said air bleed backflow device includes an adjustable air bleed opening. 4. The solvent and air mixing system of claim 1 wherein said pneumatic valve control means includes a control supply line to said air purge valve and said means for controlling said solvent valve includes a coupling to said control supply line whereby said solvent valve is actuated every time said air purge valve is actuated. 5. The solvent and air mixing system of claim 1 wherein said solvent supply line includes a coupling and a line extends from said coupling to said solvent valve for supplying solvent to said solvent valve. 6. The solvent and air mixing system of claim 1 wherein said means for controlling the delivery of solvent to said air passageway in said solvent and air mixing device includes a liquid throttling member. 7. The solvent and air mixing system of claim 1 wherein said means for controlling the delivery of solvent to said air passageway in said solvent and air mixing device includes a screw-in member having an orifice therethrough with a predetermined diameter, said screw-in member being mounted in said transverse passageway whereby said screw-in member can be removed from said transverse passageway in said solvent and air mixing device for changing the orifice by inserting another screw-in member with a different orifice diameter. 8. The solvent and air mixing system of claim 7 wherein said orifice diameter is approximately 0.40 inch. 9. The solvent and air mixing system of claim 1 wherein said transverse passageway has a recess for receiving a filter between said solvent valve and a throttling orifice in said transverse passageway. 10. The solvent and air mixing system of claim 9 wherein said filter is made of a solvent resistant material. 11. A method for cleaning one side of a two liquid component mixing system or a paint color changing system with an air and solvent purging/cleaning system, the method including the steps of: (a) supplying purging air through an air purge line to at least one valve and line for cleaning same; (b) adding a small amount of solvent to the air purge line; (c) cleaning the lines and valves for the one liquid component with air combined with a small amount of solvent; and, (d) bleeding a small amount of air from the air purge line through an air bleed opening at a point upstream of the point of addition of solvent to the air purge line thereby to prevent contamination of the source of pressurized air in the event of a breakdown in said purging/cleaning system that results in backflow of liquid through said solvent and air mixing system. 12. The method of claim 11 including the step of adjusting the size of the air bleed opening relative to the operating parameters of the component mixing system to ensure bleeding of any liquid backflow upstream at the point of adding solvent to the air purge line, thereby to provide optimum protection against contamination of a purge air supply system. 13. The method of claim 11 including the step of providing a check valve in the air purge line upstream from the point of adding solvent to the air purge line to protect against contamination of a purge air supply system in the event of a major failure in the component mixing system. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein the solvent to air mixture is in a ratio between approximately 1:50, solvent to air, and approximately 1:150, solvent to air, by volume. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein said solvent is selected from the class consisting of alcohol, water, MIBK, MEK, MAK, xylol, toluol, butyl cellosolve, or combinations thereof. 