A robotic endoscope for performing endoscopic procedures in a tubular organ comprising: (a) a plurality of segments, connected together by a plurality of flexible articulated joints, having a distal end; (b) a plurality of flexible linear actuators attached, skewed sideways with respect to the longitudinal axis of said robot, circumferentially round each segment; (c) a central cavity running longitudinally through said robotic endoscope which houses a plurality of optical fibres, a water/air hose, an instrumentation channel and a plurality of electrical wires associated with an imaging means being mounted at the distal end of the robotic endoscope; and (d) a network of tributary channels for the distribution of pressure to said linear actuators. The present invention is also applicable to an autonomous pipe robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic endoscope for performing endoscopic procedures in a tubular organ comprising: (a) a plurality of segments, connected together by a plurality of flexible articulated joints, having a distal end; (b) a plurality of flexible linear actuators attached circumferentially around each segment, each of said linear actuators including a portion that is extendible and retractable along a longitudinal axis of that linear actuator, wherein the longitudinal axis of each linear actuator is skewed sideways with respect to the longitudinal axis and diametrical axis of each respective segment; (c) a central cavity running longitudinally through said robotic endoscope which houses a plurality of optical fibers, a water/air hose, an instrumentation channel and a plurality of electrical wires associated with an imaging means being mounted at the distal end; and (d) a network of tributary channels for the distribution of pressure to said linear actuators. 2. The robotic endoscope of claim 1, wherein said articulated joints connecting the segments possess three passive degrees of freedom to allow the robotic endoscope to conform to different curvatures. 3. The robotic endoscope of claim 1, wherein the plurality of linear actuators are rubber bellows. 4. The robotic endoscope of claim 1, wherein the linear actuators are driven by pneumatics or hydraulics. 5. The robotic endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a control means for implementing a plurality of gaits relating to speed, and ability to advance against gravity or ability of advance through difficult bends. 6. The robotic endoscope of claim 1, wherein the distal end of the segments is steered by lead wires connected to an electric motor. 7. The robotic endoscope of claim 1, wherein the distal end of the segments is steered by lead wires connected to a plurality of shape memory alloy wires. 8. The robotic endoscope of claim 1, wherein the linear actuators are padded at the tips of the bellows. 9. The robotic endoscope of claim 1, wherein tone imaging means is a charge couple camera. 10. The robotic endoscope of claim 1, wherein the segments are cylindrical. 11. An autonomous robot capable of advancing in pipes of small diameters comprising: (a) a plurality of segments, connected together by a plurality of flexible articulated joints, having a distal end; (b) a plurality of electrically (pneumatically or hydraulically) driven linear actuators attached circumferentially around each segment, each of said linear actuators including a portion that is extendible and retractable along a longitudinal axis of that linear actuator, wherein the longitudinal axis of each linear actuator is skewed sideways with respect to the longitudinal axis of each respective segment; (c) a central cavity running longitudinally through the robot which houses a power source, a control means, and a transmitter for an autonomous robot. 12. The autonomous pipe robot of claim 11, wherein the plurality of the articulated joints connecting the segments possess three degrees of freedom to allow the robot to conform to different curvatures. 13. The robotic endoscope of claim 11, further comprising a control means for implementing a plurality of gaits relating to speed, ability to advance against gravity or ability of advance through difficult bends. 14. The autonomous pipe robot of claim 11, wherein said distal end of the segments is steered by a miniature motor. 15. The autonomous pipe robot of claim 11, wherein said distal end of the segments is steered by shape memory alloy wires. 16. The autonomous pipe robot of claim 11, wherein an imaging means is mounted at the distal end of the segments. 17. The autonomous pipe robot of claim 16, wherein the imaging means is a charge couple camera. 18. The autonomous pipe robot of claim 11, wherein the linear actuators are swivellable to an opposite direction to facilitate backwards propulsion. 19. The autonomous pipe robot of claim 11, wherein the plurality of segments are rigid and cylindrical in shape. 20. The autonomous pipe robot of claim 11, wherein the plurality of linear actuators are rubber bellows. 