A new class of actuators and mechanisms use opposing repulsive magnetic forces. The repulsive forces are typically generated between a stationary magnet and a moving magnet, where the moving magnet is coupled to the mechanism output member. The mechanisms are generally configured such that the repulsive force from one electromagnet is opposed by a repulsive force from another electromagnet, where the opposing forces are simultaneously applied to the mechanism's output member. This configuration is similar in certain aspects to the way biological flexor and extensor muscles are configured in a musculoskeletal system. The opposing configuration allows for open loop control of position and stiffness. The actuator mechanism may have both rotary and linear motion output, and may have either a single degree of freedom or multiple degrees of freedom. Permanent magnets can be used to create a baseline repulsive force without electric power, and electromagnets can modulate the repulsive force magnitude. The actuator can provide high fidelity motion and force output, and is well suited for human interface devices, such as force feedback joysticks. Other applications include adjustable stiffness devices, and high bandwidth mechanisms.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. An actuator assembly comprising: a. an interface member, constrained by a travel guide to have between one and six DOF of motion; b. a set of force generators, each being arranged to apply a force onto said interface member; and c. a set of actuators, each actuator of said set also being arranged to apply a force onto said interface member, the force of each actuator being generated by repulsive magnetic forces, each actuator being in opposition with at least one other actuator or force generator. 2. The actuator assembly of claim 1, said interface member comprising an interface member constrained to have between two and six DOF of motion. 3. The actuator assembly of claim 2, said interface member comprising an interface member constrained to have between three and six DOF of motion. 4. The actuator assembly of claim 1, the force generators comprising passive energy storage devices. 5. The actuator assembly of claim 4, one of said passive energy storage devices comprising a spring. 6. The actuator assembly of claim 4, one of said passive energy storage devices comprising a weight in a gravitational field. 7. The actuator assembly of claim 1, said interface member being movable through a number N of Degrees of Freedom equal to the total number of actuators plus force generators minus one. 8. The actuator assembly of claim 1, further comprising, for each actuator of said set, an electromagnet and an amplifier. 9. The actuator assembly of claim 1, further comprising, for each actuator of said set, a separate electromagnet and a separate amplifier. 10. The actuator assembly of claim 8, further comprising, for each of said amplifiers, a lookup table from which to select current values or an algorithm processor to establish current values. 11. The actuator assembly of claim 10, said current values corresponding to set positions of the actuator assembly. 12. The actuator assembly of claim 10, said current values corresponding to stiffnesses of the actuator assembly. 13. The actuator assembly of claim 10, said current values corresponding to combinations of set positions and stiffnesses of the mechanism. 14. An actuator assembly comprising: a. an interface member, constrained by a travel guide to have between one and six DOF of motion; b. a plurality of pairs of actuators, where: i. each actuator is arranged to apply a force onto the interface member, each force being generated by repulsive magnetic force; and ii. each of said pairs of actuators being configured such that the actuators within the pair are in opposition with each other. 15. The actuator assembly of claim 14, said interface member comprising an interface member constrained to have between two and six DOF of motion. 16. The actuator assembly of claim 15, said interface member comprising an interface member constrained to have between three and six DOF of motion. 17. The actuator assembly of claim 14, further comprising, for each pair of actuators, a single amplifier, coupled to said pair of actuators to control the actuators. 18. The actuator assembly of claim 17, each said actuator comprising an electromagnet, each said amplifier configured such that an increase in current from the amplifier increases the repulsive force in one of the pair of actuators and decreases the repulsive force in the other actuator of the actuator pair. 19. The actuator assembly of claim 17, each said actuator comprising an electromagnet, each said amplifier configured such that an increase in current from the amplifier changes the position of the interface member. 20. The actuator assembly of claim 18, further comprising a lookup table or an algorithm processor that specifies the current from said amplifier corresponding to an actuator assembly set position. 21. The actuator assembly of claim 18, furhter comprising a lookup table or an algorithm processor that specifies the current from said amplifier corresponding to a force applied by the actuator assembly. 22. The actuator assembly of claim 17, where said amplifier is configured such that an increase in current from the amplifier increase the repulsive force in both actuators of the pair. 23. The actuator assembly of claim 22, further comprising a lookup table or an algorithm processor that specifies the current from said amplifier corresponding to an actuator assembly stiffness. 