A wafer centering device which includes a wafer centering chuck and a wafer calibration disk and a method for using such device are disclosed. The wafer centering chuck can be advantageously used to replace a vacuum chuck in a processing station that utilizes a rotating wafer platform. A center locating pin provided at the center of the wafer centering chuck can then be used to calibrate a centering position for a liquid dispensing nozzle head which dispenses any type of liquid on a rotating wafer. The wafer calibration disk may be used advantageously to calibrate the motion of a robot arm wafer loader when the disk is used in place of a regular wafer. A center aperture and a calibration grid provided on the wafer calibration disk may be used advantageously to identify the deviation of the center when the calibration disk is placed on a wafer centering chuck by the robotic arm. An edge bead portion provided on a top surface of the wafer calibration disk may further be used to provide calibration for a spray nozzle head used in an edge bead rinsing process. The present invention novel wafer centering chuck and wafer calibration disk can therefore be used either individually, or in combination thereof, for the calibration of a wafer processing machine that utilizes a rotating wafer platform such that a wafer may be positioned on a properly centered vacuum chuck. The present invention novel apparatus and method can be used advantageously to replace conventional apparatus and methods which are both time and labor consuming.
Claims I claim: 1. A wafer centering chuck for centering a wafer processing machine comprising: a circular disk having two parallel surfaces of a top surface and a bottom surface, a hollow-centered shaft unitarily connected at one end to a center of said bottom surface of said circular disk and adapted for connecting at the other end to a motor means, and a plurality of pins protruding from said top surface of said circular disk, said plurality of pins comprises a center pin situated at a center of said circular disk and at least three peripheral pins situated along a periphery of said circular disk equally spaced radially from said center pin and circumferentially from each other. 2. A wafer centering chuck for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 1 further comprising: a wafer calibration disk having a shape substantially that of a wafer, a diameter of at least 0.1 mm larger than a wafer that it is used to calibrate, a top surface and a bottom surface, an edge bead portion protruding from said top surface of the wafer calibration disk having a width substantially similar to a width of a photoresist coating edge bead to be removed from a processed wafer, and an aperture at the center of the wafer calibration disk for alignment with the center pin on the wafer centering chuck when the calibration disk is positioned on top of the centering chuck and supported by the at least three peripheral pins. 3. A wafer centering chuck for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 2, wherein said calibration disk is used to calibrate a spray nozzle head for removing a photoresist coating edge bead from the surface of a photoresist coated wafer. 4. A wafer centering chuck for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 2, wherein said wafer calibration disk is fabricated of a material that is substantially transparent. 5. A wafer centering chuck for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 2, wherein said wafer calibration disk further comprises a grid pattern at the center aperture for measuring deviations from said center. 6. A wafer centering chuck for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of pins has a sharp-pointed tip. 7. A wafer centering chuck for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of pins are five pins comprises one center pin and four peripheral pins. 8. A wafer centering chuck for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 1, wherein said centering chuck is used to calibrate the centering of a liquid dispense nozzle for dispensing a liquid on a rotating wafer. 9. A wafer centering chuck for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 1, wherein said centering chuck is used to calibrate the centering of a photoresist liquid dispense nozzle for dispensing a photoresist coating on a rotating wafer. 10. A wafer centering chuck for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 5, wherein said wafer calibration disk is used in calibrating a wafer loading device by loading said calibration disk on said wafer centering chuck and measuring a deviation between said aperture on the calibration disk and said center pin on the centering chuck. 11. A wafer centering chuck for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 10, wherein said wafer loading device is a belt-driven loader for a photoresist coating/developing/edge bead rinsing apparatus. 12. A wafer centering device for centering a wafer processing machine comprising: a wafer centering chuck having two parallel surfaces of a top surface and a bottom surface, a hollow-centered shaft unitarily connected at one end to a center of said bottom surface of said centering chuck and adapted for connecting at the other end to a motor means, a plurality of pins protruding from said top surface of said centering chuck, said plurality of pins comprises a center pin situated at a center of said centering chuck and at least three peripheral pins situated along a periphery of said centering chuck equally spaced radially from said center pin and circumferentially from each other, a wafer calibration disk having a shape substantially that of a wafer, a diameter at least 0.1 mm larger than a wafer that it is used to calibrate, a top surface and a bottom surface, an edge bead portion protruding from said top surface of the wafer calibration disk having a width substantially similar to a width of a photoresist coating edge bead to be removed from a processed wafer, and an aperture at the center of the calibration disk for alignment with the center pin on the centering chuck when the calibration disk is positioned on top of the centering chuck and supported by the at least three peripheral pins. 13. A wafer centering device for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 12, wherein said wafer calibration disk is fabricated of a material that is substantially transparent. 14. A wafer centering device for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 12, wherein said wafer calibration disk further comprises a grid pattern at the center aperture for measuring deviations from said center. 15. A wafer centering device for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 12, wherein said calibration disk is used to calibrate a spray nozzle head for removing a photoresist coating edge bead front the surface of a photoresist coated wafer. 16. A wafer centering device for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 12, wherein said centering chuck is used to calibrate the centering of a liquid dispensing nozzle for dispensing a liquid on a rotating wafer. 17. A wafer centering device for centering a wafer processing machine according to claim 12, wherein said wafer calibration disk is used in calibrating a wafer loading device by loading said calibration disk on said wafer centering chuck and measuring a deviation between said aperture on the calibration disk and said center pin on the centering chuck. 18. A method for calibrating a wafer loading robot to accurately loading a wafer onto a rotatable wafer platform comprising the steps of: providing a wafer centering chuck having a top surface parallel to a bottom surface, a hollow-centered shaft unitarily connected at one end to a center of said bottom surface and adapted for connecting at the other end to a motor means, a plurality of pins protruding from said top surface comprise a center locating pin at a center of said top surface and at least three support pins along a periphery of said top surface equally spaced from said center locating pin and circumferentially from each other, removing a rotatable wafer platform from a motor shaft, mounting said wafer centering chuck to said motor shaft, providing a wafer calibration disk having a wafer shape, a top surface and a bottom surface, an edge bead portion protruding from said top surface of the calibration disk and an aperture and a measuring grid at the center of the calibration disk, loading said wafer calibration disk onto said wafer centering chuck by said wafer loading robot such that said disk being supported by said at least three support pins, and measuring a distance between the center locating pin on said wafer centering chuck and the center aperture in said wafer calibration disk by said measuring grid provided on the calibration disk. 19. A method for calibrating a wafer loading robot to accurately loading a wafer onto a rotatable wafer platform according to claim 18 further comprising the steps of: providing a width of said edge bead portion on said calibration disk substantially the same as the width of a photoresist coating edge bead to be removed on a processed wafer, and calibrating a spray nozzle head for removing said photoresist coating edge bead to the width of said edge bead portion on said calibration disk. 20. A method for calibrating a wafer loading robot to accurately loading a wafer onto a rotatable wafer platform according to claim 18 further comprising the steps of: providing a liquid dispensing head, and calibrating a center of said liquid dispensing head to said center locating pin on said wafer centering chuck. 21. A method for calibrating a wafer loading robot to accurately loading a wafer onto a rotatable wafer platform according to claim 18, wherein said wafer calibration disk is fabricated of a material that is substantially transparent. 22. A method for calibrating a wafer loading robot to accurately loading a wafer onto a rotatable wafer platform according to claim 18, wherein said plurality of pins are five pins comprises one center pin and four peripheral pins. 23. A method for calibrating a wafer loading robot to accurately loading a wafer onto a rotatable wafer platform according to claim 18, wherein said wafer loading robot is a belt-driven wafer loader for a photoresist coating/developing/edge bead rinsing apparatus. 24. A method for calibrating a wafer loading robot to accurately loading a wafer onto a rotatable wafer platform according to claim 18, wherein said measuring arid provided at the center of the calibration disk has a dimension of about 0.5 mm/grid. 