The present invention pertains to a method for sequencing genomes. The method comprises the steps of obtaining nucleic acid material from a genome. Then there is the step of constructing a clone library and one or more probe libraries from the nucleic acid material. Next there is the step of comparing the libraries to form comparisons. Then there is the step of combining the comparisons to construct a map of the clones relative to the genome. Next there is the step of determining the sequence of the genome by means of the map. The present invention also pertains to a system for sequencing a genome. The system comprises a mechanism for obtaining nucleic acid material from a genome. The system also comprises a mechanism for constructing a clone library and one or more probe libraries. The constructing mechanism is in communication with the nucleic acid material from a genome. Additionally, the system comprises a mechanism for comparing said libraries to form comparisons. The comparing mechanism is in communication with the said libraries. The system also comprises a mechanism for combining the comparisons to construct a map of the clones relative to the genome. The said combining mechanism is in communication with the comparisons. Further, the system comprises a mechanism for determining the sequence of the genome by means of said map. The said determining mechanism is in communication with said map. The present invention additionally pertains to a method for producing a gene of a genome.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of mapping a region of a genome comprised of the steps: (a) obtaining nucleic acid material from a genome; (b) constructing a clone library and a long-range probe library from said nucleic acid material; (c) hybridizing labeled long-range probes to the clone library to form pairing between homologous nucleic acid sequences; (d) detecting the labels of the long-range probes paired with the clone library to form signals; (e) recording the signals to form a set of data; and (f) combining said set of data with calibration information in a computing device with memory to construct a map of the clones which covers the region of the genome. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said clone library has an average DNA insert size not exceeding 350 kilobases. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said clone library includes bacterial or phage cloning vectors. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said clone library has a number of clones at least twice the total genome length divided by the average clone insert size. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said genome is a mammalian genome. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said mammalian genome is a human genome. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the long-range probe library consists of chromosomal DNA from somatic cell hybrids. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the long-range probe library consists of genome fragments in radiation hybrid form. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of data does not accurately correspond to chromosomal colocalization of probe and clone DNA sequences. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein step c includes hybridizing to at least 73 long-range probes. 11. A method for identifying and isolating a gene linked to a genetic trait comprised of the steps: (a) constructing a clone map of a region of a genome according to the method of claim 1; and (b) deriving DNA sequences from the clones in said map to aid in positional cloning and thereby identifying and isolating a gene linked to a genetic trait. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said gene is related to a human disease. 13. A method of forming a tiling path of overlapping clones comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining nucleic acid material from a genome; (b) constructing a clone library and a long-range probe library from said nucleic acid material; (c) hybridizing labeled long-range probes to the clone library to form pairing between homologous nucleic acid sequences; (d) detecting the labels of the long-range probes paired with the clone library to form signals; (e) recording the signals to form a first set of data; (f) performing short-range probings on the clone library with probes from a short-range probe library to form a second set of data different from the first set of data; (g) combining said first set of data and said second set of data to construct a map of the clones relative to said genome; and (h) producing sets of mapped overlapping clones from the clones in the clone library, thereby foiming a tiling path of mapped overlapping clones. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the short-range probe library consists of oligonucleotides of size between 5 base pairs and 15 base pairs. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the short-range probe library consists of a plurality of clones. 16. A method of sequencing a genome comprising the steps of: (a) constructing a tiling path of overlapping clones according to the method of claim 13; (b) determining the DNA sequences of the clones in the tiling path; and (c) combining these DNA sequences to form mapped DNA sequences, thereby sequencing said genome. 17. A method of mapping an expressed gene relative to a genome comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining an expressed gene whose corresponding gene is present in said genome; (b) labeling said expressed gene; (c) hybridizing the labeled expressed gene with clones in the tiling path constructed according to the method of claim 13, to form detections; (d) recording said detections to form a third set of data, different from the first and second sets of data from claim 13; and (e) combining said third set of data with the genome locations of the clones in the tiling path to map the expressed gene relative to said genome. 18. A method of performing a genetic linkage mapping comprising the steps of: (a) constructing a tiling path of overlapping clones according to the method of claim 13; and (b) using clones in the tiling path as hybridization probes in a genetic linkage mapping. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the genetic linkage mapping is a genome mismatch scanning. 