The present invention provides a library of compounds, each comprised of a common aminobenzenedicarboxylic acid core structure (scaffold) that serves as a template for synthesizing approximately 10.sup.1 -10.sup.6 compounds which are analogs of the scaffold. The library is employed to study ligand binding by biological receptors, such as enzymes, G-protein coupled receptors and membrane channels. For example, certain individual compounds within the library selectively bind and inhibit the action of trypsin-like serine proteases. The present invention also relates to combinatorial synthetic methods for making such libraries of compounds. Additionally, the present invention relates to novel scaffold-modified solid supports, particularly scaffold-modified polymer resins and methods for preparing said resins. Further, the present invention is directed to methods for screening a compound or plurality of compounds made according to the synthetic methods disclosed herein, which comprise using the compounds in suitable assays developed for detecting the compounds' utility as pharmaceutical agents.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composition of matter, comprising a solid support material having a plurality of pendant scaffold moieties covalently attached thereto, wherein said scaffold moieties have the formula: ##STR122## where Y' is nitro; Z' is hydrogen or a suitable carboxylic acid protecting group; and represents the attachment point of the scaffold moiety to the solid support material, wherein said attachment is either directly to the solid support material or via a cleavable linker. 2. The composition of claim 1, wherein; and Z' is trialkylsilyl, alkyl, alkenyl, aryl or aralkyl, any of which is optionally substituted. 3. The composition of claim 1, wherein Z' is methyl. 4. In a solid phase support material useful for the synthesis of organic compounds, wherein said solid phase support originally has a plurality of protected or free pendant amino or hydroxy groups, the improvement comprising one or more scaffold moieties having the formula: ##STR123## where Y is nitro and Z is hydrogen or a suitable carboxylic acid protecting group; and wherein said scaffold moieties are covalently attached to one or more of said amino or hydroxy groups via an amide or ester linkage. 5. A method for preparing one or more solid support-bound compounds said method comprising the steps of: (a) attaching a plurality of scaffold structures of the formula: ##STR124## where Y is nitro and Z is a suitable carboxylic acid protecting group to one or more polymeric resin supports by reacting the carboxylic acid functional group of said scaffold with pendant amino or hydroxy groups on said polymeric resin supports to form a plurality of resin-bound scaffolds; (b) reducing said one or more nitro groups to one or more amino groups; (c) optionally converting the one or more amino groups at position Y of said resin bound scaffolds to functional groups selected from isocyanato and isothiocyanato; (d) reacting one or more appropriate organic compounds selected from the group consisting of acid chlorides, sulfonyl chlorides, primary and secondary amines and alcohols, with the amino, isocyanato or isothiocyanato group at position Y on the scaffold molecules whereby the functional group of said one or more organic compounds chemically reacts with the amino, isocyanato or isothiocyanato groups on said scaffold molecules; and (e) hydrolyzing the carboxylic acid ester attached to said one or more resin-bound intermediates and reacting the resulting de-esterified intermediates with at least one primary or secondary amine to form said one or more resin-bound compounds. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of cleaving said one or more resin bound compounds from said one or more polymeric resins. 