Methods and apparatuses for assemblying, handling, and fabrication are disclosed in which targets are used on objects. The targets can be specifically applied to the object, or can be an otherwise normal feature of the object. Conveniently, the targets are removable from the object or covered by another object during an assemblying process. One or more robots and imaging devices for the targets are used. The robots can be used to handle or assemble a part, or a fixture may be used in conjunction with the robots. Conveniently, the CAD design system is used in designing the targets as well as for the assembly process using the targets. A plurality of targets can also be used to monitor and inspect a forming process such as on a sheet panel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining a 3D position or 3D orientation of a physical object, comprising the steps of: creating in a computer a 3D data base of a designed object, said data base including a plurality of natural object features of the designed object; selecting one or more of said natural object features of said data base for subsequent use in determining the 3D position or 3D orientation of a physical object which corresponds to the designed object of the 3D data base; storing the selected object features of the 3D data base in a computer for subsequent use in determining the 3D position or orientation of said physical object; presenting the physical object for position or orientation determination; and determining the 3D position or 3D orientation of the physical object using the stored selected object features. 2. A method for determining as claimed in claim 1, wherein said creating step includes using a simulation of said designed object from which the data base is created. 3. A method for determining as claimed in claim 1, wherein said data base also includes artificial object features of the designed object which are used as targets on said physical object in determining the 3D position or 3D orientation of said physical object. 4. A method for determining as claimed in claim 3, wherein said determining step includes the step of viewing said artificial and said natural object features with a plurality of cameras. 5. A method for determining as claimed in claim 3, wherein said determining step includes the step of viewing said artificial and said natural object features with a camera. 6. A method for determining as claimed in claim 1, wherein said data base of the designed object is a CAD generated data base. 7. A method for determining as claimed in claim 1, wherein said determining step includes the step of viewing said natural object features with a plurality of cameras. 8. A method for determining as claimed in claim 1, wherein said determining step includes the step of viewing said natural object features with a camera. 