A unitary prealigner and four link robot arm includes an upper arm, a middle arm, a forearm, and a hand that is equipped with vacuum pressure outlets to securely hold a specimen. The robot arm is carried atop a tube that is controllably positionable along a Z-axis direction. The prealigner is attached to the tube by a movable carriage that is elevatable relative to the robot arm. The prealigner further includes a rotatable chuck having a vacuum pressure outlet for securely holding a specimen in place within an edge detector assembly that senses a peripheral edge of the specimen. The prealigner may be elevated to receive a specimen from the robot arm or it may be lowered to allow clearance for the robot arm to rotate. In operation, the robot arm retrieves a specimen and places it on the prealigner, which performs an edge scanning operation to determine the effective center and specific orientation of the specimen. The robot arm then performs angular and extension correction operations to position the grasp center of the hand over the effective center of the specimen, thereby placing the specimen in a predetermined alignment relative to the hand. Finally, an exchange of vacuum pressure releases the specimen from the prealigner and secures it once again on the hand, and the robot arm delivers the specimen in the predetermined alignment to a processing station at a second elevation and at a location that compensates for the angular and extension correction operations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A specimen manipulating apparatus, comprising: a robot arm including an upper arm supporting a middle arm, a forearm, and a hand and operable for rotation about a shoulder axis, the middle arm having a first end that is supported by the upper arm for rotation about a proximal elbow axis and having a second end that supports the forearm for rotation about a distal elbow axis, the forearm having a first end that is supported by the middle arm for rotation about the distal elbow axis and having a second end that supports the hand for rotation about a wrist axis, the hand releasably grasping the specimen; a first motor for rotatably positioning the middle arm about the proximal elbow axis; a second motor for rotatably positioning the upper arm about the shoulder axis; a controller coordinating the operation of the first and second motors in first and second states, the first state characterized by operating the second motor and holding stationary the first motor so that the mechanical linkage causes linear displacement of the hand and the second state characterized by operating the first and second motors so that the mechanical linkage causes angular displacement of the hand about the shoulder axis; a Z-axis mechanism for moving the robot arm in a Z-axis direction parallel to the shoulder axis and in which the robot arm manipulates the hand for grasping and moving a specimen in an arcuate direction around the shoulder axis, in a radial direction relative to the shoulder axis, and in the Z-axis direction; and a unitary prealigner mechanism for aligning the specimen, the unitary prealigner mechanism arranged to move relative to the robot arm in the Z-axis direction. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the controller in the second state coordinates the operation of the first and second motors to provide essentially equal and opposite offsetting angular displacements of the upper arm about the shoulder axis and the middle arm about the proximal elbow axis that cause angular displacement of the hand about the shoulder axis but essentially no angular displacement of the hand about the wrist axis. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 in which the first and second motors rotate in the same direction. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the controller in the second state coordinates the operation of the first and second motors to provide dissimilar angular displacements of the upper arm about the shoulder axis and of the middle arm about the proximal elbow axis that cause angular displacements of the hand about the shoulder and wrist axes and thereby describe a nonradial, straight line path of travel for the hand. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the controller in the first state causes a change in the linear extension of the hand by actuating the second motor to rotate the upper arm and thereby impart rotational motion to the middle arm about the proximal elbow axis and to the hand about the wrist axis to effect a straight line movement of the hand and in the second state causes angular displacement of the hand about the shoulder axis by actuating the second motor to rotate the upper arm and the first motor to rotate the middle arm about the proximal elbow axis so that the straight line movement imparted to the hand by the rotation of the upper arm is at least partly offset by straight line movement imparted to the hand by the rotation of the middle arm. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 in which the first and second motors are coordinated to move in equal amounts so that the linear motions imparted to the hand by the rotations of the upper arm and the middle arm are essentially completely offset. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the hand comprises a forked end effector structure that is operable for rotation about the wrist axis. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the first motor includes a first spindle and the second motor includes a second spindle and in which the first and second motors are positioned in concentric relation such that their respective first and second spindles rotate about a common axis. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 in which the common axis constitutes the shoulder axis. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 in which the first and second spindles each have bearings that are journaled on a common structural element. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the second motor includes a second spindle and is positioned so that the second spindle rotates about the shoulder axis, the second spindle being directly mechanically connected to the upper arm. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the upper arm, middle arm, forearm, and hand constitute link elements through which a fluid pressure conduit passes to deliver vacuum pressure to releasably secure a specimen to the hand; in which the shoulder axis, proximal elbow axis, distal elbow axis, and wrist axis define rotary joints through which the fluid pressure conduit passes; and in which at least one of the rotary joints is fitted with a rotary fluid slip ring that has a central aperture through which vacuum pressure is delivered and that has first and second surfaces which form a vacuum pressure seal at an interface between the link elements forming the rotary joint into which the slip ring is fitted. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the robot arm and the unitary prealigner mechanism each have a movable mass and in which the Z-axis mechanism further includes a counterbalance system that provides a counterbalancing force that compensates for the movable mass of at least one of the robot arm and the prealigner mechanism. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 in which the counterbalancing force is an adjustable counterbalancing force and the counterbalance system comprises a fluid pressure-assisted counterbalance system that provides the adjustable counterbalancing force. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 in which the fluid pressure-assisted counterbalance system further includes a piston slidable in a cylinder containing a controllable amount of a vacuum pressure to provide the adjustable counterbalancing force. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 in which at least one of a belt and a pulley couple the counterbalancing force from the piston to the movable mass. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a structural backbone that supports the Z-axis mechanism and slidably supports the robot arm, the Z-axis mechanism including a motor turning a leadscrew that is coupled to the robot arm by a leadnut. 18. The apparatus of claim 15 in which the Z-axis mechanism further includes a motor controller driving a motor and sensing an amount of motor current required to move the robot arm in the Z-axis direction, the motor controller providing to the counterbalancing system a signal responsive to the amount of motor current for adjusting the counterbalancing force required to compensate for the movable mass. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 in which the Z-axis direction includes upward and downward directions and the signal is adjusted by the motor controller such that substantially a same amount of motor current is required to move the Z-axis mechanism in the upward and downward directions. 20. The apparatus of claim 18 in which the signal is further adjusted by the motor controller such that the counterbalancing force assists an acceleration of the movable mass in the Z-axis direction. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the unitary prealigner mechanism comprises a specimen edge detector and a rotatable chuck having a vacuum pressure outlet for releasably grasping the specimen, the robot arm and the unitary prealigner mechanism cooperating to transfer the specimen from the hand to the rotatable chuck, the rotatable chuck rotating a peripheral edge of the specimen adjacent to the specimen edge detector to determine a center and an alignment of the specimen, and the prealigner mechanism and the robot arm cooperating to deliver the specimen in a predetermined alignment. 22. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a motor-controlled moving carriage that moves the unitary prealigner mechanism in the Z-axis direction in cooperation with the robot arm. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 in which the moving carriage is coupled to the Z-axis mechanism to effect movement of the unitary prealigner mechanism in the Z-axis direction relative to the robot arm. 24. A specimen manipulating apparatus, comprising: a robot arm having a first movable mass and including at least an upper arm, a middle arm, and a hand that releasably grasps the specimen; a first motor rotatably positioning the middle arm relative to the upper arm; a second motor rotatably positioning the upper arm about a shoulder axis; a controller coordinating the operation of the first and second motors in first and second states, the first state causing linear displacement of the hand and the second state causing angular displacement of the hand about the shoulder axis; a unitary prealigner mechanism for aligning the specimen, the unitary prealigner mechanism having a second movable mass and arranged to move relative to the robot arm in a Z-axis direction parallel to the shoulder axis; and a Z-axis mechanism for moving the robot arm in the Z-axis direction, the Z-axis mechanism further including a counterbalance system that provides a counterbalancing force that compensates for at least one of the first movable mass and the second movable mass. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 in which the counterbalancing force is an adjustable counterbalancing force and the counterbalance system comprises a fluid pressure-assisted counterbalance system that provides the adjustable counterbalancing force. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 in which the fluid pressure-assisted counterbalance system further includes a piston slidable in a cylinder containing a controllable amount of a vacuum pressure to provide the adjustable counterbalancing force. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 in which at least one of a belt and a pulley couple the counterbalancing force from the piston to the movable mass. 28. A specimen manipulating apparatus, comprising: a robot arm including at least an upper arm, a middle arm, and a hand that releasably grasps the specimen; a first motor rotatably positioning the middle arm relative to the upper arm; a second motor rotatably positioning the upper arm about a shoulder axis; a controller coordinating the operation of the first and second motors in first and second states, the first state causing linear displacement of the hand and the second state causing angular displacement of the hand about the shoulder axis; a Z-axis mechanism for moving the robot arm in a Z-axis direction parallel to the shoulder axis; and a unitary prealigner mechanism for aligning the specimen and arranged to move relative to the robot arm in the Z-axis direction, the unitary prealigner mechanism comprising a specimen edge detector and a rotatable chuck having a vacuum pressure outlet for releasably grasping the specimen, the robot arm and the unitary prealigner mechanism cooperating to transfer the specimen from the hand to the rotatable chuck, the rotatable chuck rotating a peripheral edge of the specimen adjacent to the specimen edge detector to determine a center and an alignment of the specimen, and the prealigner mechanism and the robot arm cooperating to deliver the specimen in a predetermined alignment. 29. A specimen manipulating apparatus, comprising: a robot arm including at least an upper arm, a middle arm, and a hand that releasably grasps the specimen; a first motor rotatably positioning the middle arm relative to the upper arm; a second motor rotatably positioning the upper arm about a shoulder axis; a controller coordinating the operation of the first and second motors in first and second states, the first state causing linear displacement of the hand and the second state causing angular displacement of the hand about the shoulder axis; a Z-axis mechanism for moving the robot arm in a Z-axis direction parallel to the shoulder axis; a unitary prealigner mechanism for aligning the specimen, the unitary prealigner mechanism arranged to move relative to the robot arm in the Z-axis direction; and a motor-controlled moving carriage that moves the unitary prealigner mechanism in the Z-axis direction in cooperation with movement of the robot arm in the Z-axis direction. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 in which the moving carriage is coupled to the Z-axis mechanism to effect movement of the unitary prealigner mechanism in the Z-axis direction relative to the robot arm. 31. A specimen manipulating apparatus, comprising: a robot arm including an upper arm supporting a middle arm, a forearm, and a hand and operable for rotation about a shoulder axis, the middle arm having a first end that is supported by the upper arm for rotation about a proximal elbow axis and having a second end that supports the forearm for rotation about a distal elbow axis, the forearm having a first end that is supported by the middle arm for rotation about the distal elbow axis and having a second end that supports the hand for rotation about a wrist axis, the hand releasably grasping the specimen; the upper arm, middle arm, forearm, and hand constituting link elements through which a fluid pressure conduit passes to deliver vacuum pressure to releasably secure a specimen to the hand; in which the shoulder axis, proximal elbow axis, distal elbow axis, and wrist axis define rotary joints through which the fluid pressure conduit passes; and in which at least one of the rotary joints is fitted with a rotary fluid slip ring that has a central aperture through which vacuum pressure is delivered and that has first and second surfaces which form a vacuum pressure seal at an interface between the link elements forming the rotary joint into which the slip ring is fitted; a first motor for rotatably positioning the middle arm about the proximal elbow axis; a second motor for rotatably positioning the upper arm about the shoulder axis; a mechanical linkage operatively connecting the upper arm and the middle arm, the mechanical linkage forming an active drive link between the first motor and the middle arm to cause the middle arm to rotate about the proximal elbow axis in response to operation of the first motor and a passive drive link between the middle arm, the forearm, and the hand to cause the hand to rotate about the wrist axis in response to rotation of the middle arm about the proximal elbow axis; and a controller coordinating the operation of the first and second motors in first and second states, the first state characterized by operating the second motor and holding stationary the first motor so that the mechanical linkage causes linear displacement of the hand and the second state characterized by operating the first and second motors so that the mechanical linkage causes angular displacement of the hand about the shoulder axis. 32. A specimen manipulating apparatus, comprising: a robot arm including an upper arm supporting a middle arm, a forearm, and a hand and operable for rotation about a shoulder axis, the middle arm having a first end that is supported by the upper arm for rotation about a proximal elbow axis and having a second end that supports the forearm for rotation about a distal elbow axis, the forearm having a first end that is supported by the middle arm for rotation about the distal elbow axis and having a second end that supports the hand for rotation about a wrist axis, the hand releasably grasping the specimen; a first motor for rotatably positioning the middle arm about the proximal elbow axis; a second motor for rotatably positioning the upper arm about the shoulder axis; a mechanical linkage operatively connecting the upper arm and the middle arm, the mechanical linkage forming an active drive link between the first motor and the middle arm to cause the middle arm to rotate about the proximal elbow axis in response to operation of the first motor and a passive drive link between the middle arm, the forearm, and the hand to cause the hand to rotate about the wrist axis in response to rotation of the middle arm about the proximal elbow axis; a controller coordinating the operation of the first and second motors in first and second states, the first state characterized by operating the second motor and holding stationary the first motor so that the mechanical linkage causes linear displacement of the hand and the second state characterized by operating the first and second motors so that the mechanical linkage causes angular displacement of the hand about the shoulder axis; a Z-axis mechanism for moving the robot arm in a Z-axis direction parallel to the shoulder axis so that the robot arm manipulates the hand for grasping and moving a specimen in an arcuate direction around the shoulder axis, in a radial direction relative to the shoulder axis, and in the Z-axis direction; and a unitary prealigner mechanism for aligning the specimen, the unitary prealigner mechanism arranged to move relative to the robot arm in the Z-axis direction. 33. The apparatus of claim 32 in which the robot arm and the unitary prealigner mechanism each have a movable mass and in which the Z-axis mechanism further includes a counterbalance system that provides a counterbalancing force that compensates for the movable mass of at least one of the robot arm and the prealigner mechanism. 34. The apparatus of claim 33 in which the counterbalancing force is an adjustable counterbalancing force and the counterbalance system comprises a fluid pressure-assisted counterbalance system that provides the adjustable counterbalancing force. 35. The apparatus of claim 34 in which the fluid pressure-assisted counterbalance system further includes a piston slidable in a cylinder containing a controllable amount of a vacuum pressure to provide the adjustable counterbalancing force. 36. The apparatus of claim 35 in which at least one of a belt and a pulley couple the counterbalancing force from the piston to the movable mass. 37. The apparatus of claim 32 further comprising a structural backbone that supports the Z-axis mechanism and slidably supports the robot arm, the Z-axis mechanism including a motor turning a leadscrew that is coupled to the robot arm by a leadnut. 38. The apparatus of claim 33 in which the Z-axis mechanism further includes a motor controller driving a motor and sensing an amount of motor current required to move the robot arm in the Z-axis direction, the motor controller providing to the counterbalancing system a signal responsive to the amount of motor current for adjusting the counterbalancing force required to compensate for the movable mass. 39. The apparatus of claim 38 in which the Z-axis direction includes upward and downward directions and the signal is adjusted by the motor controller such that substantially a same amount of motor current is required to move the Z-axis mechanism in the upward and downward directions. 40. The apparatus of claim 38 in which the signal is further adjusted by the motor controller such that the counterbalancing force assists an acceleration of the movable mass in the Z-axis direction. 41. The apparatus of claim 32 in which the unitary prealigner mechanism comprises a specimen edge detector and a rotatable chuck having a vacuum pressure outlet for releasably grasping the specimen, the robot arm and the unitary prealigner mechanism cooperating to transfer the specimen from the hand to the rotatable chuck, the rotatable chuck rotating a peripheral edge of the specimen adjacent to the specimen edge detector to determine a center and an alignment of the specimen, and the prealigner mechanism and the robot arm cooperating to deliver the specimen in a predetermined alignment. 42. The apparatus of claim 32 further including a motor-controlled moving carriage that moves the unitary prealigner mechanism in the Z-axis direction in cooperation with the robot arm. 43. The apparatus of claim 42 in which the moving carriage is coupled to the Z-axis mechanism to effect movement of the unitary prealigner mechanism in the Z-axis direction relative to the robot arm. 