Disclosed are an automated data storage library and a method for operating the library. The library includes two pickers arranged on a common guideway; a plurality of media storage slots arranged in a plurality of regions alongside the guideway; a plurality of read/write stations arranged in regions alongside the guideway. Commands are received for jobs to move media amongst the storage slots and the read/write stations, and a controller queues the received commands and allocates the queued commands to the pickers and in an order of jobs which will allow the pickers to independently access and move the media so as to avoid interference in the same region, or in regions which are behind the other picker. The media storage slots may be arranged in row sets and regions alongside the guideway, each row set including one or more storage slots and each region including one or more columns, with the regions narrower than the pickers. The controller queues the received commands and allocates the queued commands to the pickers and in an order of jobs so as to allow the pickers to independently access and move the media to avoid interference in the same row set in adjacent regions, in the same region, or in regions which are behind the other picker.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for operating an automated data storage library, said library having two pickers arranged on a common guideway, a plurality of regions, said regions comprising columns of media storage slots, at least one of said regions comprising at least one read/write station, said regions arranged in sequence alongside said guideway, said library receiving input commands for jobs to move media amongst said storage slots and said read/write stations, said method comprising the steps of: queuing said received input commands in a job queue; and, allocating said input commands of said job queue alternately to each of said pickers and in an order of jobs which will allow said pickers to independently access and move said media so as to avoid interference by occupying the same said region, or occupying said regions which, in said sequence, are behind the other picker. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of allocating said queued commands additionally comprises the steps of: determining the regions of said library occupied by one of said pickers when executing the next queued command; selecting the next command for said other picker from said queued commands for said other picker which operates said other picker to occupy said same region, or to occupy regions behind said one picker; and delaying said next queued command for said one picker until after completion by said other picker of said next command for said other picker. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said delaying step additionally comprises moving said one picker out of any region to be occupied by said other picker during execution of said next command for said other picker. 4. A method for operating an automated data storage library having two pickers arranged on a common guideway, a plurality of regions, said regions comprising columns of row sets of media storage slots, at least one of said regions comprising at least one read/write station, said regions arranged in sequence alongside said guideway, said regions narrower than each of said pickers, such that when one of said pickers occupies one said region, said one picker additionally occupies at least one said row set of an adjacent said region toward the other of said pickers, said library receiving input commands for jobs to move media amongst said storage slots and said read/write stations, said method comprising the steps of: queuing said received input commands in a job queue; and allocating said input command s of said job queue alternately to each of said pickers and in an order of jobs which will allow said pickers to independently access and move said media so as to avoid interference by occupying the same row set in adjacent said regions of said sequence, occupying the same said region, or occupying said regions which, in said sequence, are behind the other picker. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said allocating step comprises the steps of: determining the row sets and regions of said library occupied by one of said pickers when executing a presently allocated command; and selecting the next command for said other picker in said order of jobs based on jobs other than those of said queued commands operating said other picker to occupy the same row set as said one picker in said adjacent said regions, to occupy the same said region as said one picker, or to occupy said regions which, in said sequence, are behind said one picker. 6. The method of claim wherein said step of allocating said queued commands additionally comprises the steps of: determining the regions and row sets of said library occupied by one of said pickers when executing the next queued command; selecting the next command for said other picker from said queued commands for said other picker which operates said other picker to occupy said same region, or to occupy regions behind said one picker; and delaying said next queued command for said one picker until after completion by said other picker of said next command for said other picker. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said delaying step additionally comprises moving said one picker out of any row set or region to be occupied by said other picker during execution of said next command for said other picker. 8. An automated data storage library, comprising: a guideway; two pickers arranged on said guideway; a plurality of regions, said regions comprising columns of media storage slots, at least one of said regions comprising at least on read/write station, said regions arranged in sequence alongside said guideway; an input receiving commands for jobs to move media amongst said storage slots and said read/write stations; and a controller having a job queue, for queuing said received input commands in said job queue and allocating said input commands of said job queue alternately to each of said pickers and in an order of jobs which will allow said pickers to independently access and move said media so as to avoid interference by occupying the same said region, or occupying said regions which, in said sequence, are behind the other picker. 9. The automated data storage library of claim 8, wherein said controller determines the regions of said library occupied by one of said pickers when executing the next queued command, selects the next command for said other picker from said queued commands for said other picker which operates said other picker to occupy said same region, or to occupy regions behind said one picker, and delays said next queued command for said one picker until after completion by said other picker of said next command for said other picker. 10. The automated data storage library of claim 9, wherein said controller additionally moves said one picker out of any region to be occupied by said other picker during execution of said next command for said other picker. 11. An automated data storage library, comprising: a guideway; two pickers arranged on said guideway; a plurality of regions, said regions comprising columns of row sets of media storage slots, at least one of said regions comprising at least one read/write station, said regions arranged in sequence alongside said guideway, said regions narrower than each of said pickers, such that when one of said pickers is in one said region, said one picker additionally occupies at least one said row set of an adjacent said region toward the other of said pickers; said guideway; an input receiving commands for jobs to move media amongst said storage slots and said read/write stations; and a controller having a job queue, for queuing said received input commands in said job queue and allocating said input commands of said job queue alternately to each of said pickers and in an order of jobs which will allow said pickers to independently access and move said media so as to avoid interference by occupying the same row set in adjacent said regions of said sequence, occupying the same said region, or occupying said regions which, in said sequence, are behind the other picker. 12. The automated data storage library of claim 11, wherein said controller determines the row sets and regions of said library occupied by one of said pickers when executing a presently a located command and selects the next command for said other picker from said job queue in said order of jobs based on jobs other than those of said queued commands operating said other picker to occupy the same row set as said one picker in said adjacent said regions, to occupy the same said region as said one picker, or to occupy said regions which, in said sequence, are behind said one picker. 13. The automated data storage library of claim 12, wherein said controller additionally determines the regions and row sets of said library occupied by one of said pickers when executing the next queued command, selects the next command for said other picker from said queued commands for said other picker which operates said other picker to occupy said same region, or to occupy regions behind said one picker, and delays said next queued command for said one picker until after completion by said other picker of said next command for said other picker. 14. The automated data storage library of claim 13, wherein said controller additionally moves said one picker out of any row set or region to be occupied by said other picker during execution of said next command for said other picker. 