Interactive toy apparatus including: a toy having a fanciful physical appearance and including: at least one audio transducer; and a toy transceiver communicating with the audio transducer; and a computer including: a user input receiver; a user information storage unit storing information relating to a user's preferences received from a user via the user input receiver and relating to a user; a computer transceiver; a speech recognition unit receiving speech inputs from the user; and an interactive content controller employing the information relating to the user's preferences received via the user input receiver and stored in the user information storage unit and also employing the speech recognition output for providing interactive audio content to the user at the toy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Interactive toy apparatus comprising: a toy having a fanciful physical appearance and including: at least one audio transducer; and a toy transceiver communicating with said at least one audio transducer; and a computer including: a user input receiver; a user information storage unit storing information relating to a user's preferences received from a user via said user input receiver and relating to a user; a computer transceiver; a speech recognition unit receiving speech inputs from said user via said at least one audio transducer and said toy transceiver of said toy and via said computer transceiver and providing a speech recognition output; and an interactive content controller employing said information relating to said user's preferences received via said user input receiver and stored in said user information storage unit and also employing said speech recognition output for providing interactive audio content to said user at said toy via said computer transceiver, said toy transceiver and said at least one audio transducer. 2. Interactive toy apparatus according to claim 1 and wherein said toy transceiver and said computer transceiver are wireless transceivers. 3. Interactive toy apparatus according to claim 1 and wherein said interactive content controller is operative to perform interactive branching. 4. Interactive toy apparatus according to claim 3 and wherein said interactive branching employs at least one branching point which is at least partially responsive to said speech recognition output. 5. Interactive toy apparatus according to claim 1 and wherein said speech recognition output comprises information content of a response of said user to said audio content provided to said user at said toy via said computer transceiver, said toy transceiver and said at least one audio transducer. 6. Interactive toy apparatus according to claim 1 and wherein said toy also includes at least one tactile transducer and wherein: said toy transceiver communicates with said tactile transducer; and said interactive content controller also employs information derived from said tactile transducer. 7. Interactive toy apparatus according to claim 1 and wherein said toy also includes at least one motion transducer and wherein said interactive content controller also provides inputs to said motion transducer. 8. Interactive toy apparatus according to claim 1 and wherein at least one of said toy and said computer also includes a time indicator and wherein said interactive content controller is responsive to said time indicator. 