A system for automatically calibrating a semiconductor wafer handling robot so that the robot will move wafers into and out of precise locations within enclosures that form process stations or storage cassettes is disclosed. The system comprises a controller having memory and logic sections connected to a robot having an articulated arm that is movable in vertical (Z), horizontal (.theta.), and radial (R) directions and having a wafer retaining wand at the end of the arm. Dimensional characteristics of the robot wand and the enclosures are stored in the controller memory. Sensors are provided at each enclosure and/or the robot wand which are activated and provide signals to the controller that are relative to the wand position. The robot is programmed to execute a series of progressive movements at each enclosure location which are controlled by a combination of sensor response signals and the appropriate dimensional characteristics. At the end of the programmed movements, the robot wand is positioned within a process station or cassette so that it can engage for removal or release a wafer therein at a precise predetermined location.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In combination with a robot having an arm with a wafer holding wand at its outer end, motor means for moving said arm vertically in a Z axis, rotatably about the Z axis in an angle .theta. and for extending said wand radially along an R axis, a system for automatically controlling said robot to cause said wand to be positioned precisely within the opening of a fixed enclosure near said robot so that it can repetitively place a semiconductor wafer within or remove it from said enclosure, said system comprising; a machine controller having a memory and logic circuitry and connected to said robot, said controller having stored dimensional characteristics of said wand and said enclosure; an I/O component and a motor amplifier connected to said machine controller; first sensor means for producing signals to said controller for causing said robot wand to be moved to a vertical Z axis position relative to said enclosure opening; and second sensor means within said fixed enclosure for producing signals to said controller that cause said robot wand to move automatically in .theta. and R directions so as to arrive at a precise position within said fixed enclosure to thereby enable said wand to pick up or drop off a wafer at said precise position. 2. The control system of claim 1 including means within said machine controller responsive to a first programmed signal for moving said wand to an approximate location relative to said enclosure; means responsive to signals from said first and second sensors coupled with said dimensional characteristics of said wand and said enclosure which are stored within said controller memory for causing said robot motor means to move said wand automatically through a series of scanning maneuvers and ultimately within said enclosure to a desired location therein; whereby the end position of said wafer holding wand is precisely referenced to a predetermined location within said enclosure. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said fixed enclosure comprises a semiconductor process station having a frontal frame member forming an elongated horizontal opening, said frame member being attached to a base member having a planar upper surface. 4. The system of claim 3 including a plurality of spaced apart support pins of equal height attached to said base member and extending above its upper surface for supporting a wafer within said enclosure. 5. The control system of claim 1 wherein said first sensor means comprises a laser sensor on said robot wand, said wand being rotatably attached to the end of said robot arm. 6. The control system of claim 5 wherein said first sensor means is attached to the rear end of the rotatable robot wand, said wand having a wafer retaining means on its opposite front end. 7. The control system of claim 5 wherein said second sensor means comprises a thrubeam sensor device having emitter and receiver elements mounted in said frame for producing a vertical beam across said opening. 8. The control system of claim 7 wherein said emitter and receiver elements are located in said frame so that the beam between them intersects a line extending through a horizontal mid-point of said opening and the desired center axis of a wafer that is properly positioned with said enclosure. 9. The control system of claim 4 wherein said first sensor means comprises a horizontal thrubeam sensor having emitter and receiver elements that are horizontally aligned and mounted in opposite end portions of said frame to provide a beam which extends horizontally across said opening. 10. The control system of claim 9 wherein the beam produced by said horizontal thrubeam sensor is in a horizontal plane above a horizontal plane above a horizontal plane formed by the upper ends of said wafer support pins. 11. The control system of claim 1 wherein said fixed enclosure comprises a wafer cassette having a plurality of wafer retaining slots, a base member for supporting said cassette and frontal members fixed to said base member having a horizontal edge located below the lowermost slot of said cassette. 12. The control system of claim 11 wherein said second sensor means comprises a reflective beam sensor device mounted at the horizontal mid-point of said frontal member for sensing the presence of said robot wand when it moves above said mid-point. 13. The control system of claim 12 including means in said controller for programming said robot to determine .theta. and R positions of said wand which enable said wand to place a wafer within or remove a wafer from any selected slot of the cassette relative to a virtual center axis of the cassette. 14. The control system of claim 13 wherein said means for programming include signals from said first and second sensors and dimensional characteristics of said wand and said cassette. 15. A method for automatically calibrating the positioning of a wafer handling robot wand to a desired location within an enclosure forming a process station and having elongated opening, said robot having an articulated arm that is movable in the vertical (Z), angular (.theta.), and radial (R) directions and is connected to a controller having memory and logic sections, said robot wand being rotatable at the end of said arm and having a first sensor at one end thereof and said process station having a second sensor within the opening of said enclosure, said method including the steps of: 1--providing said controller memory with dimensional characteristics of said wand and said process station; 2--programming said controller to cause said robot to move in a series of sequential movements; 3--rotating said wand 180.degree. so that said first sensor faces said opening of said process station; 4--causing said robot to move in the Z direction to determine one edge of said station opening and providing its measurement as a rough Z (Z.sub.rough) calibration to said controller; -- returning said robot wand to a preset normal position; 6--moving the robot to an initial calibration position within said opening using said second sensor within said enclosure; 7--moving the wand in first one angular (theta) direction and then in the opposite angular direction within said enclosure to determine the desired .theta..sub.cal position for the wand; 8--moving the wand to the initial calibration position based on R.sub.non, .theta..sub.cal and Z.sub.rough ; 9--moving the wand in the negative R direction until said second sensor is activated; 10'defining the Rcal distance by combining the R sensed position with the stored enclosure dimensions; 11--moving the wand to the initial calibration position with its sensor spaced from the enclosure opening based on R.sub.cal, .theta..sub.cal and Z.sub.rough ; 12--moving the robot wand in the negative Z direction; 13--measuring the Z position when the wand sensor passes a horizontal inner edge of the opening; 14--defining the Z.sub.cal position by adding dimensional values of the wand and enclosure. 15--returning the wand to its normal position; 16--moving the wand into the station opening to the position defined by Z.sub.cal, .theta..sub.cal and R.sub.cal. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said first sensor is a laser reflective sensor connected to said controller. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein said second sensor is a thrubeam sensor which provides a vertical beam across said enclosure opening at its horizontal mid-point. 18. A method for automatically calibrating the positioning of a wafer handling robot wand to a desired location within an enclosure forming a process station and having an elongated opening, said robot having an articulated arm that is movable in the vertical (Z), angular (.theta.), and radial (R) directions and is connected to a controller having memory and logic sections, said process station enclosure having a first sensor that provides a horizontal beam across mid opening and a second sensor that provides a vertical beam across said opening at its mid-point, said method comprising the steps of: 1--moving the robot arm manually to a rough Z and R position with said wand extending through said opening; 2--moving the wand in an angular direction to a first position and then in the opposite direction relative to said second sensor to record .theta., and .theta..sub.2 positions to determine the desired .theta..sub.cal position for the wand; 3--moving the wand in a negative R direction to activate said second sensor; -- defining the R.sub.cal distance by combing the R sensed position with the enclosure dimensions; 5--moving the wand in the negative Z direction to engage the horizontal beam of the first sensor to provide a signal to the controller; 6--using the signal from the first sensor and stored dimensional values of the wand and the enclosure to determine Z.sub.cal position for the wand; and 7--moving the wand into the enclosure opening to the position defined by Z.sub.cal, .theta..sub.cal and R.sub.cal. 