A method and apparatus for making a decorative mass of fiber fluff wherein a source of supply of staple fibers made of natural or synthetic textile fiber and arranged in continuous form, such as in a strand of yarn, are provided as a pattern array of discrete streams of different selected colors with the colors being uniform in each stream and comprising at least one base color and one contrasting color. The array stream of fibers is fed as an array of multiple strands of yarn into a carding operation wherein the fibers are brushed or carded from their input form into card or brush clothing to thereby only partially intermix fibers of at least two different colors in the bristles or wires of the card or brush clothing. The accumulated fibers are then removed film the clothing to form a pillow batt or roving having a streaked appearance representative of the original colors of the individual yarn strands, and with a partial intermixing and blending of the streaks of one color with those of another. The pillows, batts or roving are stretched, twisted or otherwise slightly further worked into a final fluff product having randomly dispersed bands, streaks and/or islands of one color softly merging into another color to produce a decorative candy-cane like appearance in the mass of final fiber fluff product. The novel fluff product can be packaged as is for use in artistic decorative projects, or spun into novel multi-color variegated yarn. Such yarn can be used to knit novel variegated color fabrics that then can be made in to novel variegated color fabric articles.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of making a decorative mass of fiber fluff comprising the steps of: (a) providing a source of supply of staple fibers made of natural or synthetic textile fiber and arranged in continuous form as a pattern array of discrete streams of different selected colors with the colors being uniform in each stream and comprising at least one base color and one contrasting color, (b) feeding the array stream of fibers into a carding operation wherein the fibers are brushed or carded from their input form into card or brush clothing to thereby only partially intermix fibers of at least two different colors in the bristles or wires of the card or brush clothing, (c) removing the accumulated fibers from the clothing to form a pillow or roving having a streaked appearance representative of the original colors with a partial intermixing and blending of the streaks of one color with those of another, and (d) accumulating and working a pillow or roving into a final fluff product having randomly dispersed bands, streaks and islands of one color softly merging into another color to produce a decorative candy-cane like appearance in the mass of final fiber fluff product. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein step (a) comprises providing the source of supply of staple fibers in yarn form arranged as discrete strands of yarn each of a given color coordinated and selected to form an array of side-by-side yarns to form the discrete streams of different selected colors. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein step (a) further comprises providing each of the yarns as a winding on an associated spool from which the yarn may be drawn by unwinding from the spool. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein step (a) further comprises arranging the spools on spindles and number coding spools to the color code of the selected colors in accordance with a pre-selected coding pattern of input for the decorative mass of fiber fluff to be made by the method. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the individual yarns are drawn from the associated spool winding to a convergence zone wherein an array of yarns is formed in a predetermined feed pattern to thereby provide the pattern array of discrete streams of different selected colors of staple fibers in yarn form with the yarns being fed as an array of closely spaced parallel strands of yarn into the carding operation step (b). 6. The method of claim 1 wherein step (a) comprises providing a generally parallel array of strands of yarn of the selected colors arranged side by side, and step (b) comprises feeding the array of yarns into a carding mechanism comprising two endless brush belts, each carrying card clothing and arranged with mutually adjacent runs in closely spaced parallel orientation with the card clothing on each run slightly intermeshing, and wherein the array of strands are fed into the convergence zone where the two adjacent runs converge for travel adjacent one another. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the endless card belts are operated to travel at the same linear speed with little or no relative motion between the two mutually adjacent runs of the belt. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the endless card belts are mounted for relative bodily motion between open and closed positions, the belt motion being stopped to move the belts to open position for unloading of the accumulated mass of carded fibers as an elongated batt from the associated card clothing of each belt to thereby perform step (c). 9. The method of claim 8 wherein step (a) further comprises providing each of the yarns as a winding on an associated spool from which the yarn may be drawn by unwinding from the spool. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein step (a) further comprises arranging the spools on spindles and number coding spools to the color code of the selected colors in accordance with a pre-selected coding pattern of input for the decorative mass of fiber fluff to be made by the method. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the individual yarns are drawn from the associated spool winding to a convergence zone wherein an array of yarns is formed in a predetermined feed pattern to thereby provide the pattern array of discrete streams of different selected colors of staple fibers in yarn form with the yarns being fed as an array of closely spaced parallel strands of yarn into the carding operation of step (b). 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the yarn strands are fed in the parallel strand array into a pair of nip rolls disposed upstream of the convergence zone of the brush belts and operated at a predetermined controlled rate to draw the array strands into the nip rolls and feed to the brush belts, the nip rolls being operated to allow the strands to travel from the nip rolls into the convergence zone at a rate less than the rate of travel of the clothing on the brush belts. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the yarn strands are fed through a comb guide disposed upstream of the nip rolls with each array strand being individually fed between a pair of associated comb fingers to thereby orient the array strands in a side-by-side parallel array for feed into the nip rolls. 14. A decorative mass of fiber fluff product made by the method of claim 1. 15. A decorative mass of fiber fluff product made by the method of claim 11 . 