An apparatus and a method for measuring eccentricity between two circular members which are attached together is provided. The apparatus includes a vernier measuring device of a main scale and a vernier scale, and a mounting block having a V-shaped notch in a top surface for receiving a circular member and for mounting the main scale of the vernier measuring device securely to the block. The novel apparatus and method can be used to not only making direct measurement of the eccentricity between the two centers, they may also be used to read directly the number of pulses required for making adjustment to a robot arm when the divisions on the main scale and the vernier scale are specifically designed for such purpose. The method can be carried out by first aligning the zero setting on the main scale with the center of the first circular member, and then aligning the zero setting on the vernier scale with the center of the second circular member, and then reading the distance between the two zero settings for determining the eccentricity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between two circular structures attached together comprising: a vernier measuring device comprises a main scale and a vernier scale, said vernier scale for sliding in a slot opening provided in said main scale, a mounting block having a V-shaped top surface for receiving said main scale of the vernier measuring device with its longitudinal axis perpendicular to said mounting block and its center line intersects the bottom of the "V" in said V-shaped top surface such that a first zero setting on said main scale coincides with a center of a first circular structure, and a second circular structure attached to said first circular structure and having its radial axis perpendicular to said mounting block such that a second zero setting on said vernier scale coincides with a center of said second circular structure, wherein an eccentricity between said first circular structure and said second circular structure is determined by a distance between said first zero setting on said main scale and said second zero setting on said vernier scale. 2. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between two circular structures according to claim 1, wherein said second circular structure is a coating formed on said first circular structure. 3. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between two circular structures according to claim 1, wherein said first circular structure is a circular disk having a first diameter and said second circular structure is a coating having a second diameter situated on said circular disk, said second diameter being smaller than said first diameter. 4. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between two circular structures according to claim 1, wherein said first circular structure is a wafer and said second circular structure is a layer of a photoresist coating placed on a center portion of said wafer. 5. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between two circular structures according to claim 1, wherein said main scale and said vernier scale of said vernier measuring device are designed in such a way that a distance measured between said first and second zero settings is readily converted to a pulse setting for inputting to a robot device which delivers said first circular structure into a process machine for calibrating said robot. 6. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between two circular structures according to claim 1, wherein said main scale of said vernier measuring device having one end along its longitudinal axis attached to said mounting block. 7. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between two circular structures according to claim 6, wherein said end being attached to said mounting block by mechanical means. 8. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between two circular structures according to claim 6, wherein said end is attached to said mounting block such that a longitudinal axis of said main scale being perpendicular to a bottom surface of said mounting block and a center line of said main scale along a longitudinal axis intersects the tip of the "V" in said V-shaped top surface of the block. 9. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between a wafer and a coating layer on the wafer comprising: a vernier measuring device including a main scale and a vernier scale, the vernier scale slides in a slot opening provided in the main scale, a mounting block having a V-notch in a top surface for fixably receiving said main scale such that a longitudinal axis of the main scale being perpendicular to the top surface of said block, and a wafer positioned in said V-notch with its radial axis perpendicular to the top surface of the block, its center coincides with a zero setting on said main scale and a center of said coating layer on the wafer coincides with a zero setting on said vernier scale such that said eccentricity is determined by a distance between the zero setting on the main scale and the zero setting on the vernier scale. 10. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between a wafer and a coating layer on the wafer according to claim 9, wherein said main scale being fixably received by said mounting block by mechanical means. 11. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between a wafer and a coating layer on the wafer according to claim 9, wherein said coating layer on said wafer is a photoresist coating layer. 12. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between a wafer and a coating layer on the wafer according to claim 9, wherein said coating layer on said wafer having a diameter that is at least 2 mm smaller than a diameter of said wafer. 13. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between a wafer and a coating layer on the wafer according to claim 9, wherein said coating layer on said wafer having a circular form that is off-centered from said wafer. 14. An apparatus for measuring eccentricity between a wafer and a coating layer on the wafer according to claim 9, wherein said main scale and said vernier scale of said vernier measuring device are designed in such a way that a distance measured between said first and second zero settings is readily converted to a pulse setting for inputting to a robot device which delivers said wafer into a process machine for calibrating said robot. 15. A method for measuring eccentricity between a first circular member and a second circular member attached together in a face-to-face relationship comprising the steps of: providing a vernier measuring device comprises a main scale and a vernier scale, providing a mounting block having a V-notch in a top surface, attaching said main scale to said mounting block in such a way that a longitudinal axis of said main scale being perpendicular to said top surface of the mounting block, a center line of said main scale intersects a tip of the "V" in said V-notch, and a zero setting on said main scale coincides with a center of said first circular member subsequently positioned on said mounting block, positioning said first and second circular member in said V-notch on the mounting block with circular planes of said circular members being perpendicular to said top surface of the mounting block and being supported by two sloped shoulder portions of said V-notch, sliding said vernier scale in a slot opening in said main scale until a zero setting of the vernier scale coincides with a center of said second circular member, and measuring eccentricity by a distance between the zero setting on the main scale and the zero setting on the vernier scale. 16. A method for measuring eccentricity between a first circular member and a second circular member attached together in a face-to-face relationship according to claim 15, wherein said first circular member is a wafer and said second circular member is a coating on said wafer having a diameter smaller than a diameter of the wafer. 17. A method for measuring eccentricity between a first circular member and a second circular member attached together in a face-to-face relationship according to claim 15, wherein said first circular member is a wafer and said second circular member is a photoresist coating layer on said wafer. 18. A method for measuring eccentricity between a first circular member and a second circular member attached together in a face-to-face relationship according to claim 15 further comprising the step of dividing said main scale and said vernier scale in such a way that a distance measured between said two zero settings is readily convertible to a pulse setting for inputting into a robot such that the robot delivery of a wafer into a process chamber can be calibrated. 