Goniometers are provided having internal compensation employing two opposing variable resistance strain sensing elements separated by a flexible film. The goniometers may be used in sets for detecting complex hinge or joint movements, where patterns of hinge or joint positions may be used to define symbols. Algorithms are provided for parsing values from a system of goniometers in motion having information content.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A communication system comprising: means for deriving electrical signals indicative of a configuration of a hand fitted with an instrumented glove having a cover material configured to fit on the hand of a wearer, a plurality of goniometers supported by said cover material and positioned to flex with movement of fingers and/or hand and means for electrically connecting said plurality of goniometers to circuitry of the communication system; computer means for receiving the electrical signals and determining symbols corresponding to hand-poses, said computer means including an adaptive pattern recognition algorithm responsive to hand-state vectors for recognizing hand-poses in hand-space; and first output means responsive to said computer means for providing an output of symbols recognized by said adaptive pattern recognition algorithm; wherein the said adaptive pattern recognition algorithm incorporates a tree-structured artificial neural network classifier. 2. The communication system in claim 1, wherein said computer means comprises a computer. 3. The communication system in claim 1, wherein said means for deriving electrical signals comprises an electrical circuit. 4. The communication system in claim 3, wherein said means for deriving electrical signals comprises at least one sensor. 5. A communication system comprising: a first circuit deriving electrical signals indicative of a configuration of a hand fitted with an instrumented glove having a cover material configured to fit on the hand of a wearer, a plurality of goniometers supported by said cover material and positioned to flex with movement of fingers and hand, and a second circuit for electrically connecting said plurality of goniometers to circuitry of the communication system; a computer including a microprocessor receiving the electrical signals and determining symbols corresponding to hand-poses, said computer including an adaptive pattern recognition procedure executing in said microprocessor responsive to hand-state vectors for recognizing hand-poses in hand-space; and an output circuit responsive to said computer and providing an output of symbols recognized by said adaptive pattern recognition procedure; wherein the said adaptive pattern recognition procedure incorporates a tree-structured artificial neural network classifier. 