An apparatus for controlling operation of a processing machine has a computer preferably with a computer aided design program configurable to model a kinematic velocity profile of a point of interest on a machine to be controlled. A graphical user interface on the computer enables an operator to select desired velocity points for a motor drive controlling motion of the point on the machine. A curve fit is applied to the velocity points to realize a desired velocity profile for the motor drive and the point on the machine. The desired velocity profile is then integrated and scaled in order to obtain a scaled velocity profile that realizes an actual, or target displacement of the point as dictated by operation of the machine. By controlling operation of elements of a machine with velocity profiles, coordination of associated elements and points on the machine can be visualized by an operator selecting the velocity points for each drive of the machine. A method for implementing same is also disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. A computer system including a computer for controlling operation of a cycle-based processing machine, comprising: a user interface configured for receiving user input commands comprising selected velocity data defining at least in part a desired velocity versus time profile of a moving point of interest of the processing machine to be controlled; a data storage device in which is stored the user input commands and a target displacement value for the moving point of interest, the target displacement value representing the actual physical displacement of the point of interest on the machine; an integrator configured to integrate the desired velocity versus time profile to quantify a derived displacement value for the moving point of interest; and a comparator implemented by the computer system to compare the target displacement value with the derived displacement value of the point of interest, the comparator configured to output a scaling factor calculated by the computer system and further configured to scale the velocity profile to realize the target displacement value when integrated over a time domain of interest. 2. The computer system of claim 1 wherein the data storage device comprises a memory for storing the desired velocity versus time profile and the target displacement value. 3. The computer system of claim 1 wherein the target displacement value comprises a full stroke displacement value for a trim press platen movable between opened and closed positions by a rotary servo drive, the scaled velocity versus time profile characterizing velocity of the platen over time during a cycle of operation. 4. The computer system of claim 1 further comprising a computer aided design program stored in the data storage device for modelling a kinematic velocity profile of the point of interest on the machine. 5. The computer system of claim 1 wherein the input device comprises a graphical user interface. 6. The computer system of claim 1 wherein the integrator comprises numerical integration algorithm stored in the memory and configurable via the central processing unit. 7. The computer system of claim 6 wherein the algorithm comprises polynomial approximation configurable in the data storage device to fit and raw a curve through a plurality of velocity points comprising the selected velocity data, the curve comprising the desired velocity versus time profile. 8. The computer system of claim 1 wherein the scaled velocity versus time profile is realized via a servo drive motor controller which controls movement of the point of interest via a controlled electric motor. 9. The computer system of claim 1 further comprising at least one servo drive motor controller configured to drive a machine element containing the point of interest on the machine via an electric motor, the motor controller being coupled to the computer system to receive control information directing machine element operation pursuant to the scaled velocity profile for the point of interest. 10. The computer system of claim 1 further comprising a machine output device operable between on and off states via time triggering of electrical activation/deactivation at selected times along the scaled velocity profile for the point of interest. 11. An apparatus for controlling operation of a processing machine, comprising: a computer having a central processing unit, a user interface configured for receiving user input commands comprising selected velocity data defining at least in part a desired velocity versus time profile of a moving point of interest of the processing machine to be controlled, and a data storage device in which is stored the user input commands and a target displacement value for the moving point of interest, the target displacement value representing the actual physical displacement of the point of interest on the machine; an integrator configured to integrate the desired velocity versus time profile to quantify a derived displacement value for the moving point of interest; and a comparator implemented by the computer system to compare the target displacement value with the derived displacement value of the point of interest, the comparator configured to output a scaling factor calculated by the computer system and further configured to scale the velocity profile to realize the target displacement value when integrated over a time domain of interest. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the processing machine has a support, at least one movable element carried by the support, and an electric motor carried by the support and configured to move the element pursuant to a cycle-based machine operation, the moving point of interest being provided by the movable element, and the velocity profile being provided by controlling operation of the motor drive via a servo drive motor controller so as to realize the scaled velocity versus time profile. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the user interface comprises a graphical user interface having a display screen. 14. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the integrator comprises a numerical integration algorithm stored in the data storage device and configurable via the central processing unit. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the algorithm comprises an interpolating polynomial approximation configurable in the data storage device to best fit and draw an approximation curve through a plurality of velocity data comprising velocity points so as to define the desired velocity profile. 16. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising at least one servo drive motor controller configured to drive a machine element containing the point of interest on the machine via an electric motor, the motor controller coupled to the computer system to receive control information directing electric motor operation pursuant to the scaled velocity profile of the drive. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising at least one electric motor configured to drive the machine element containing the point of interest on the machine, the motor coupled to the computer system via the motor controller to receive control information directing operation pursuant to the scaled velocity profile for the point of interest on the machine. 18. A method for controlling a plurality of machine drive systems usable for performing cycle based processes, comprising the steps of: providing at least one working element and a motor drive coupled to the element, the drive configured to move the working element responsive to receiving an enabling input from a characterizing velocity versus time profile for performing a cycle-based process; providing a computer-implemented control system, including a processor, memory, a graphical user interface, and a computer aided design software program configured with a software-based interface program operable to display a velocity profile characterizing velocity versus time for the working element pursuant to the drive; characterizing a desired velocity profile in the memory for a desired point on the working element corresponding to operation of the motor drive; integrating the characterized velocity profile over a desired period of time to characterize a derived displacement value; providing a target displacement value for the desired point of interest; comparing the target displacement value with the derived displacement value to obtain a scaling coefficient sized to scale the derived displacement to realize the target displacement; and applying the scaling factor to the desired velocity profile such that when integrated, the velocity profile provides the actual displacement. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the desired velocity profile is characterized by inputting to memory a plurality of desired velocity points comprising a desired velocity and a selected time, then curve fitting the points to realize the desired velocity profile. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the curve fitting is a polynomial approximation. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein a desired velocity profile is characterized by an operator inputting velocity points into the memory via a keyboard. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein a desired velocity profile is characterized by an operator inputting velocity points into the memory via a mouse. 23. The method of claim 19 wherein a desired velocity profile is characterized by an operator inputting velocity points into the memory via a graphical user interface. 