A pelagic free swimming aquatic vehicle includes a rigid forebody having a predetermined volume; a watertight chamber in the forebody; and a flexible afterbody having a lesser volume than the forebody and including a maneuvering and propulsion propulsion structure and a drive system for driving the structure with a traveling sinusoidal wave motion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pelagic autonomous free swimming aquatic vehicle comprising: a submersible rigid forebody having a predetermined volume, said volume of said forebody is 50%-70% of the envelope displacement of the vehicle; a water tight chamber in said forebody; and a flexible afterbody having a lesser volume than said forebody and including a maneuvering and propulsion structure and drive system means for driving said structure with a traveling sinusoidal wave motion. 2. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 1 in which the longitudinal weight distribution follows the longitudinal volume distribution in the vehicle. 3. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 1 in which said chamber is a pressure hull. 4. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 1 in which said chamber includes a cargo volume. 5. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 1 in which said chamber includes an energy source. 6. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 5 in which said energy source includes a battery. 7. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 5 in which said energy source includes a fuel cell. 8. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 5 in which said energy source includes an air independent thermal engine. 9. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 1 in which said afterbody is neutrally buoyant. 10. the pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 1 in which said propulsion structure includes an outer water-impervious medium. 11. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 1 in which said structure afterbody includes at least one longitudinal element and a plurality of laterally extending elements attached to each said longitudinal element for maintaining a fair contour during bending due to propulsion or maneuvering. 12. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 11 in which said afterbody includes an intermediate medium between an outer water-impervious medium and said lateral elements for preventing cupping of said outer medium between said lateral sections. 13. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 1 in which said drive system includes a plurality of sequentially pivotally interconnected limbs and a hydraulic drive means for moving each of said links relative to its adjacent links. 14. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 1 in which the length of the forebody is 40%-80% of the combined length of the forebody and afterbody. 15. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 1 further including diving plane means for controlling depth and pitch. 16. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 15 in which said diving plane means includes a pair of diving planes. 17. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 1 in which the nose of the forebody is flexible. 18. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 17 further including a drive mechanism for steering the flexible nose. 19. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 1 in which said chamber includes a control system having means for directing said drive system to drive said structure with a traveling sinusoidal wave motion. 20. The pelagic autonomous free swimming underwater vehicle of claim 19 in which said control system includes means for directing said drive system to drive said structure to assume a curved shape. 21. A pelagic free swimming aquatic vehicle comprising: a rigid forebody having a predetermined volume; a watertight chamber in said forebody; an energy source in said chamber, said energy source having an independent thermal engine; and a flexible afterbody having a lesser volume than said forebody and including a maneuvering and propulsion structure and drive system for driving said structure with a traveling sinusoidal wave motion. 22. A pelagic free swimming aquatic vehicle comprising: a rigid forebody having a predetermined volume; a watertight chamber in said forebody; a flexible afterbody having a lesser volume than said forebody and including a maneuvering and propulsion structure and drive system for driving said structure with a traveling sinusoidal wave motion, said afterbody including at least one longitudinal element and a plurality of laterally extending elements attached to each said longitudinal element; and an intermediate medium between an outer water-impervious medium and said lateral elements for preventing cupping of said outer medium and said lateral sections. 23. A pelagic free swimming aquatic vehicle comprising: a rigid forebody having a predetermined volume, said forebody having a flexible nose; a watertight chamber in said forebody; and a flexible afterbody having a lesser volume than said forebody and including a maneuvering and propulsion structure and drive system for driving said structure with a traveling sinusoidal wave motion. 24. The pelagic free swimming aquatic vehicle of claim 23 further including a drive mechanism for steering said flexible nose. 