A surgical navigation system has a computer with a memory and display connected to a surgical instrument or pointer and position tracking system, so that the location and orientation of the pointer are tracked in real time and conveyed to the computer. The computer memory is loaded with data from an MRI, CT, or other volumetric scan of a patient, and this data is utilized to dynamically display 3-dimensional perspective images in real time of the patient's anatomy from the viewpoint of the pointer. The images are segmented and displayed in color to highlight selected anatomical features and to allow the viewer to see beyond obscuring surfaces and structures. The displayed image tracks the movement of the instrument during surgical procedures. The instrument may include an imaging device such as an endoscope or ultrasound transducer, and the system displays also the image for this device from the same viewpoint, and enables the two images to be fused so that a combined image is displayed. The system is adapted for easy and convenient operating room use during surgical procedures.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for facilitating a diagnostic or surgical procedure involving a subsurface target site in a patient, comprising (a) acquiring volumetric scan data of the target site, (b) moving a medical instrument to a selected orientation with respect to the patient target site; (c) determining the orientation of the medical instrument with respect to the patient target site; (d) selecting a field-of-view angle, (e) constructing from the volumetric scan data, a volumetric perspective image of the target site, as seen from the orientation of the medical instrument, at the selected field-of-view angle, and (f) displaying said perspective image to a person manipulating the instrument, in real time, allowing the person to visualize subsurface target structure at the selected field-of-view angle, as the medical instrument is moved with respect to the patient target site. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said medical instrument is an endoscope operable to generate a visual image from the perspective of a distal-end lens. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said displaying includes simultaneously displaying the image produced by the endoscope and the perspective image generated by said constructing. 