A robotic welder designed to efficiently weld a workpiece together which includes a three-sided structure to support a plurality of workpiece components, and an index and rotating mechanism designed to move the work support surfaces into a desired position. The welding system is designed to minimize idle time of the welding operations and to increase the efficiencies of the operators during the operation of the welding system.
Claims Having thus described the invention, it is so claimed: 1. A method of welding components of a workpiece together comprising the steps of: (a) providing a welding table adapted to support the components of said workpiece, said welding table including a first, second and third work surface; (b) providing a loading station to load said workpiece components onto at least one work surface, a welding station to weld together said workpiece components, and an unloading station to unloaded said welded workpiece from at least one work surface; (c) rotating said welding table about a longitudinal axis to move said first work surface to said loading station, said first work surface at said unloading station being offset from a vertical axis of said structure at about 0-90.degree.; (d) loading said workpiece components onto said first work surface at a loading station; (e) securing said workpiece components onto said first work surface at said loading station; (f) rotating said structure about said longitudinal axis to move said first work surface from said loading station to said welding station, said first work surface at said welding station being offset from said vertical axis at about 0-60.degree.; (g) positioning a welder onto said workpiece in a preselected manner to weld said workpiece components together at said welding station; (h) rotating said welding table about said longitudinal axis to move said first work surface from said welding station to said unloading station, said first workpiece support surface at said unloading station being offset from said longitudinal axis at about 0-30.degree.; and (j) unloading said welded workpiece from said first work surface at said unloading station. 2. In a welding system adapted to weld a workpiece together comprising a welding table to support and move said workpiece between a loading station and a welding station, and a welder adapted to weld together said workpiece at said welding station, said improvement comprising said welding table including at least a first, second and third work surface, a rotating mechanism adapted to rotate said welding table in substantially one direction about a longitudinal axis extending generally parallel to said work surfaces and substantially at the center of said welding table, and an index mechanism adapted to index said welding table about said longitudinal axis to position said first work surface from said loading station to said welding station. 3. A welding system as defined in claim 2, wherein said welding table has three work support surfaces and a generally uniform triangular cross-sectional shape along the longitudinal axis of said welding table, said work surfaces being spaced at substantially equal distances about said welding table. 4. A welding system as defined in claim 2, wherein said index mechanism positions each of said work support surfaces at said welding station at about a 0-60.degree. offset from a vertical axis of said welding table. 5. A welding system as defined in claim 2, wherein said index mechanism positions each of said work support surfaces at said loading station at about a 5-9.degree. offset from a vertical axis of said welding table. 6. A welding system as defined in claim 2, wherein said welding table includes a shield to reduce the amount of spatter transversing from said welding station to another station, said shield positioned substantially at an intersecting end of two adjacent work surfaces. 7. A welding system as defined in claim 2, including a shielding structure positioned above said welding table and adapted to reduce the amount of spatter transversing from said welding station to other stations. 8. A welding system as defined in claim 2, wherein said welding table includes a clamping mechanism adapted to secure said workpiece to each of said work surfaces. 9. A welding system as defined in claim 2, including a robotic welder and a welding index mechanism adapted to position a welding device on said robotic welder at predefined locations on said workpiece after said workpiece is positioned at said welding station. 10. A welding system as defined in claim 2, including an unloading station, said loading station, said welding station and said unloading station being positioned at distinct locations about said welding table, said index mechanism adapted to index said welding table to position said first work surface from said welding station to said unloading station. 11. A welding system as defined in claim 10, wherein said index mechanism positions each of said work surfaces at said unloading station at about a 0-30.degree. offset from said longitudinal axis. 12. A welding system as defined in claim 10, wherein said welding table includes a clamping mechanism adapted to secure said workpiece to each of said work surfaces at said loading station and welding stations and to release said workpiece from each of said work surfaces at said unloading station. 13. A welding system as defined in claim 10, including a conveyor mechanism adapted to receive said workpiece at said unloading station. 14. A welding system as defined in claim 13, wherein said conveyor mechanism includes a workpiece receiver adapted to move toward said work surface at said unload station to receive said workpiece. 15. A welding table for supporting and moving a generally flat workpiece between a loading station and a welding station, said welding table comprising a three sided frame having first, second and third generally flat work surfaces arranged in a generally equilateral triangle, means for rotatably mounting said frame about a longitudinal axis extending parallel to said work surfaces at the center of said triangle, and means for indexing said first surface from said loading station to said welding station. 16. A welding table as defined in claim 15, wherein said means for indexing positions at least one of said support surfaces at said loading station at a 0-90.degree. offset from a vertical axis of said structure. 17. A welding table as defined in claim 15, including means for clamping to secure said workpiece to at least one of said work surfaces as said frame is moved from said loading station to said welding station. 18. A welding table as defined in claim 15, including a means for shielding to reduce the amount of spatter and/or arc flash created at said welding station from traversing to other stations, said means for shielding positioned substantially at an intersecting end of two adjacent work surfaces. 19. A welding table as defined in claim 15, wherein said means for indexing positions at least one of said support surfaces at said welding station at about 0-60.degree. offset from a vertical axis of said frame. 20. A welding table as defined in claim 19, wherein said offset angle is about 45.degree.. 21. A welding table as defined in claim 15, wherein said means for indexing positions at least one of said work surfaces from said welding station to an unloading station, said work surface at said unloading station offset from said longitudinal axis at about 0-30.degree.. 22. A welding table as defined in claim 21, including a means for clamping to secure said workpiece to at least one of said work surfaces at said welding station and to release said workpiece from said work surface at said unloading station. 23. A welding table as defined in claim 21, including a means for clamping to secure said workpiece to at least one of said work surfaces at said welding station and to release said workpiece from said work surface at said unloading station. 24. A welding table as defined in claim 23, including a means for shielding to reduce the amount of spatter and/or arc flash created at said welding station from traversing to other stations, said means for shielding positioned substantially at an intersecting end of two adjacent work surfaces. 25. A welding table as defined in claim 15, wherein said means for rotatably mounting rotates said frame in substantially a single direction about said longitudinal axis. 26. A welding table as defined in claim 25, wherein said means for indexing positions at least one of said support surfaces at said welding station at about 0-60.degree. offset from a vertical axis of said frame. 27. A welding table as defined in claim 26, wherein said means for indexing positions at least one of said support surfaces at said loading station at a 0-90.degree. offset from a vertical axis of said structure. 28. A welding table as defined in claim 27, wherein said means for indexing positions at least one of said work surfaces from said welding station to an unloading station, said work surface at said unloading station offset from said longitudinal axis at about 0-30.degree.. 29. A welding table as defined in claim 28, including means for clamping to secure said workpiece to at least one of said work surfaces as said frame is moved from said loading station to said welding station. 30. A welding table for supporting and moving a workpiece between a loading station and a welding station, said welding table comprising at least a first, second and third work surfaces, a rotating mechanism adapted to rotate said work surfaces about a longitudinal axis of said welding table, said longitudinal axis extending generally parallel to said work surfaces, and an index mechanism adapted to index said work surfaces about said longitudinal axis to position said first work surface from said loading station to said welding station. 31. A welding table as defined in claim 30, wherein said rotating mechanism rotates said work surface in substantially a single direction about said longitudinal axis. 32. A welding table as defined in claim 30, including a clamping mechanism adapted to secure said workpiece to at least one of said work surfaces. 33. A welding table as defined in claim 30, including a shield position between at least two of said work surfaces, said shield adapted to reduce spatter and/or arc flash formed at said welding station from adversely affecting other stations. 34. A welding table as defined in claim 30, wherein said index mechanism positions said first work surface at said welding station at about a 0-60.degree. offset from a vertical axis of said welding table. 35. A welding table as defined in claim 34, wherein said offset angle is about 30-50.degree.. 36. A welding table as defined in claim 30, wherein said index mechanism positions said first work surface at said loading station at about 0-90.degree. offset from a vertical axis of said welding table. 37. A welding table as defined in claim 36, wherein said offset angle is about 10-40.degree.. 38. A welding table as defined in claim 30, wherein said index mechanism indexes said work surfaces about said longitudinal axis to position said first work surface from said welding station to an unloading station. 39. A welding table as defined in claim 38, wherein said index mechanism positions said first work surface at said unloading position at about a 0-30.degree. offset from said longitudinal axis. 40. A welding table as defined in claim 38, including a clamping mechanism adapted to release said workpiece at said unloading station. 41. A welding table as defined in claim 30, wherein said welding table has a generally uniform triangular cross sectional shape along the longitudinal axis of said welding table, and said three work surfaces being spaced at substantially equal distances about said work table. 42. A welding table as defined in claim 41, wherein said rotating mechanism being connected to said work table along said longitudinal axis passing generally through the center of said triangular cross section of said work table. 43. A welding table as defined in claim 42, wherein said rotating mechanism rotates said work surface in substantially a single direction about said longitudinal axis. 44. A welding table as defined in claim 43, wherein said index mechanism positions said first work surface at said welding station at about a 0-60.degree. offset from a vertical axis of said welding table. 45. A welding table as defined in claim 44, wherein said index mechanism positions said first work surface at said loading station at about 0-90.degree. offset from a vertical axis of said welding table. 46. A welding table as defined in claim 45, wherein said index mechanism indexes said work surfaces about said longitudinal axis to position said first work surface from said welding station to an unloading station. 47. A welding table as defined in claim 46, including a clamping mechanism adapted to secure said workpiece to at least one of said work surfaces. 48. A welding table as defined in claim 47, including a clamping mechanism adapted to release said workpiece at said unloading station. 49. A welding table as defined in claim 48, including a shield position between at least two of said work surfaces, said shield adapted to reduce spatter formed and/or arch flash at said welding station from adversely affecting other stations. 