Wafer handling apparatus includes a plurality of holding stations arranged in an upstream-to-downstream order and devices to treat the wafers held at the stations. Cyclically operative wafer shifting devices engage the wafers, simultaneously remove the engaged wafers during that cycle from the holding stations, shift the engaged wafers downstream relative to said holding stations and then simultaneously redeposit the wafers onto the holding stations. Thus, each wafer redeposited on a cycle of the wafer shifting devices is disposed at a holding station downstream from the holding station occupied by such wafer before that cycle of the shifting devices. Wafer supply and removal devices are provided for introducing and removing the wafers to and from the holding stations after they are treated. A method of handling wafers among a plurality of holding stations is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Wafer handling apparatus for cyclically shifting wafers introduced thereto and removed therefrom comprising: (a) a plurality of vertically arranged holding stations spaced apart from one another each comprising a support surface for supporting the wafers, said holding stations being arranged in an upstream-to-downstream order with a first station at the upstream end of the order and a last station at the downstream end of the order; (b) a cyclically operative and substantially vertically movable wafer shifting arm for shifting the wafers held at each said holding station among said holding stations during each cycle of operation, said wafer shifting arm comprising vertically arranged wafer holding shelves spaced apart from one another to engage each wafer held at each of said holding stations; (c) control means for controlling said wafer shifting arm to simultaneously remove each wafer engaged during that cycle and simultaneously redeposit at least some of the wafers engaged during that cycle onto said holding stations such that each wafer redeposited on a said holding station during a cycle is disposed at one of said holding stations downstream from said holding station occupied by such wafer before that cycle; and (d) one or more wafer treatment stations for treating the wafers being shifted among said holding stations in accordance with a predetermined treatment process. 2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said holding stations are disposed in a vertically stacked arrangement and said wafer shifting arm is operative to shift the engaged wafers vertically. 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said wafer treatment stations is disposed at at least one of said holding stations in order to treat each wafer while the wafer remains in position at such holding station. 4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said wafer treatment stations is located remote from said holding stations, and said apparatus further includes a transfer arm controllable by said control means for removing the wafers disposed at at least one of said holding stations from such holding station after one cycle to said remote treatment station and returning the removed wafer to one of said holding stations before the next cycle. 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said treatment station comprises a wafer developer station. 6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said treatment station comprises a wafer coating station. 7. Apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said treatment station comprises a wafer cleaning station. 8. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein one or more of said wafer treating stations comprise said holding stations. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein one or more of said holding stations comprise heating and cooling plates. 10. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said holding stations are swingably attached to a vertical support pole and are rotatable about said support pole for movement to desired positions about said support pole. 11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said holding stations are movable into and out of a vertically stacked arrangement and said control means controls the movement of said holding stations to and from the vertically stacked arrangement. 12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said holding stations comprise two or more sets of holding stations with each of said sets disposed in a vertically stacked arrangement. 13. Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein said sets of holding stations are attached to separate vertical support poles. 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein said sets of holding stations are attached to a common vertical support pole. 15. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a wafer supply transfer arm controllable by said control means for introducing wafers to be treated to said holding stations. 16. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a wafer removal transfer arm controllable by said control means for removing wafers from said last station after the wafers are treated. 17. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said wafer holding shelves of said shifting arm comprises wafer holding forks. 18. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said wafer holding shelves of said shifting arm comprises wafer holding nests to engage the outer edges of the wafers. 19. Wafer handling apparatus for cyclically shifting wafers introduced thereto and removed therefrom comprising: (a) a plurality of vertically arranged holding stations spaced apart from one another each comprising means for supporting the wafers, said holding stations being arranged in an upstream-to-downstream order with a first station at the upstream end of the order and a last station at the downstream end of the order; (b) cyclically operative and substantially vertically movable wafer shifting means for shifting the wafers among said holding stations during each cycle of operation; (c) control means for controlling said wafer shifting means to simultaneously remove each wafer engaged during that cycle and simultaneously redeposit at least some of the wafers engaged during that cycle onto said holding stations such that each wafer redeposited on a said holding station during a cycle is disposed at one of said holding stations downstream from said holding station occupied by such wafer before that cycle; and (d) means for treating the wafers being shifted among said holding stations in accordance with a predetermined treatment process. 20. Apparatus as claimed in claim 19, wherein said wafer shifting means further comprises wafer engagement means for engaging each wafer held at each of said holding stations. 21. Wafer handling apparatus for cyclically shifting wafers introduced thereto and removed therefrom comprising: (a) a plurality of holding stations spaced apart from one another each comprising a support surface for supporting the wafers, said holding stations being arranged in an upstream-to-downstream order with a first station at the upstream end of the order and a last station at the downstream end of the order; (b) a cyclically operative wafer shifting arm having an upstream end and a downstream end corresponding to said upstream-to-downstream order of said holding stations for shifting the wafers held at each said holding station among said holding stations during each cycle of operation, said wafer shifting arm comprising an introductory holding shelf disposed at said downstream end for engaging and introducing new wafers to said wafer shifting arm and a plurality of intermediate wafer holding shelves spaced apart from one another to engage each wafer held at each of said holding stations; (c) control means for controlling said wafer shifting arm to simultaneously remove each wafer engaged during that cycle and simultaneously redeposit at least some of the wafers engaged during that cycle onto said holding stations such that said new wafers are deposited on said first station and each wafer redeposited on a said holding station during a cycle is disposed at one of said holding stations downstream from said holding station occupied by such wafer before that cycle; and (d) one or more wafer treatment stations for treating the wafers being shifted among said holding stations in accordance with a predetermined treatment process. 22. Apparatus as claimed in claim 21 wherein said wafer shifting arm is substantially vertically movable. 