A pair of orthogonally oriented linear member are slidingly linked to a base at their respective ends. A stage, having a pair of orthogonally oriented bores, receives the pair of linear members, thereby permitting the stage to move in any horizontal direction. The stage further has two parallel, vertically oriented bores to receive a pair of parallel, vertically oriented linear members. The adjacent ends of the vertically oriented linear members are connected by upper and lower platforms, each having a cable guide thereat. A motor is mounted to the base and is coupled to a drive shaft. A hangar, fixedly mounted to one of the horizontal linear members, rotationally hold a first drive pulley which is slidably mounted on the drive shaft. Located opposite the drive pulley and also fixedly mounted to the horizontal linear member is a cable hangar. A cable frictionally engages the drive pulley to translate rotational movement of the drive pulley into vertical movement of the platforms. This is accomplished by placing first, second, third, and fourth lateral cable guides at the stage with the first and fourth being proximate to one another and the second and third being proximate of one another. The cable extends from the hangar, in order, to the first lateral guide, the upper platform guide, the second lateral guide, the drive pulley, the third lateral guide, the lower platform guide, and the fourth lateral guide where after it again terminates at the fixed hangar. Each horizontal linear member may also be linked to a motor to supply motive forces to the stage for horizontal movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a force reflecting apparatus having a base and a horizontally moveable stage, the improvement comprising: a first motor; a first drive shaft linked to the motor; a drive pulley axially slidable on the first drive shaft and selectively responsive to horizontal movement of the stage; at least one vertical support member slidingly engaged with the stage wherein the at least one vertical support member is connected at a first end to an upper member and to a lower member at a second end; a first, a second, a third, and a fourth lateral cable guide located at the stage wherein the first and the fourth cable guides are proximate to one another, and the second and the third cable guides are proximate to one another; a first and a second column cable guide wherein the first column guide is located at the upper member and the second column guide is located at the lower member; a cable hanger slidingly mounted to the base and selectively responsive to horizontal movement of the stage; and a cable having a first end attached to the cable hanger wherein the cable passes about, in order, the first lateral guide, the first column guide, the second lateral guide, the first drive pulley, the third lateral guide, the second column guide, and the fourth lateral cable guide where after the second end of the cable terminates at the cable hanger. 2. The improvement of claim 1 further comprising a second vertical support member slidingly engaged with the stage wherein the second vertical support member is connected at a first end to the upper member and to the lower member at a second end. 3. The improvement of claim 1 further comprising at least one structural support member connected at a first end to the upper member and to the lower member at a second end without engaging the stage. 4. The improvement of claim 1 further comprising a second vertical support member slidingly engaged with the stage and at least one structural support member not engaging the stage, each having a first end and a second end, wherein the second vertical support member and the at least one structural support member are connected at their respective first ends to the upper member and at their respective second ends to the lower member at a second end. 5. The improvement of claim 1 wherein the drive pulley and the cable hangar are linked so that horizontal movement of the drive pulley results in corresponding movement of the hangar. 6. The improvement of claim 1 wherein a cable segment between the first lateral guide and the first column guide, and a cable segment between the first column guide and the second lateral guide are parallel to one another. 7. The improvement of claim 1 wherein a cable segment between the third lateral guide and the second column guide, and a cable segment between the second column guide and the fourth lateral guide are parallel to one another. 8. The improvement of claim 1 wherein a cable segment between the first lateral guide and the first column guide is parallel to a cable segment between the first column guide and the second lateral guide, and wherein a cable segment between the third lateral guide and the second column guide is parallel to a cable segment between the second column guide and the fourth lateral guide. 9. The improvement of claim 1 further comprising a second vertical support member slidingly engaged with the stage and at least one structural support member not engaging the stage, each having a first end and a second end, wherein the second vertical support member and the at least one structural support member are connected at their respective first ends to the upper member and at their respective second ends to the lower member at a second end, and wherein a cable segment between the first lateral guide and the first column guide is parallel to a cable segment between the first column guide and the second lateral guide, and a cable segment between the third lateral guide and the second column guide is parallel to a cable segment between the second column guide and the fourth lateral guide. 10. A force reflecting apparatus having at least three degrees of freedom for providing force reflection to a user comprising: a base to provide a mechanical ground; a first linear horizontal support member slidingly mounted to the base, the first linear horizontal support member defining a first axis; a second linear horizontal support member slidingly mounted to the base, the second linear horizontal support member defining a second axis wherein the second axis is substantially orthogonal to the first axis; a column having an upper member and a lower member, and including a first linear vertical support member slidingly engaged with the stage, the first linear vertical support member defining a third axis orthogonal to the first and second axes, and separating the upper member from the lower member; a stage to slidingly receive the first and second linear horizontal support members, and the first linear vertical support member; a first motor coupled to a rotatable first drive shaft; a first drive pulley slidably mounted about the first drive shaft wherein the first drive pulley is translationally linked to the first linear support member; and cable transmission means for translating rotational movement of the first drive pulley into movement of the platform independent of and unaffected by movement of the stage along the first or second axes. 11. The force reflecting apparatus of claim 10 wherein the cable transmission means comprises a first, a second, a third, and a fourth lateral cable guide located at the stage wherein the first and the fourth cable guides are proximate to one another, and the second and the third cable guides are proximate to one another; a first column cable guide located at the upper member and a second column cable guide located at the lower member; a cable hanger linked to the first support member to be selectively responsive to horizontal movement of the stage; and a cable having a first end attached to the cable hanger wherein the cable passes about, in order, the first lateral guide, the first column guide, the second lateral guide, the first drive pulley, the third lateral guide, the second column guide, and the fourth lateral cable guide where after the second end of the cable terminates at the cable hanger. 12. The force reflecting apparatus of claim 10 wherein the column further includes at least one structural support member connected at a first end to the upper member and to the lower member at a second end, without engaging the stage. 13. The force reflecting apparatus of claim 10 wherein the column further includes a second linear vertical support member slidingly engaged with the stage and at least one structural support member not engaging the stage, each having a first end and a second end, wherein the second vertical support member and the at least one structural support member are connected at their respective first ends to the upper member and at their respective second ends to the lower member at a second end. 14. The force reflecting apparatus of claim 10 wherein there is at least one motor for each axis of stage movement. 15. The force reflecting apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first linear horizontal support member has a first end and a second end, each end being slidably linked to the base, and wherein the apparatus further comprises a second motor operatively coupled to the first and second ends of the first linear horizontal support member. 16. The force reflecting apparatus of claim 15 wherein the second motor is coupled to a second drive shaft having an axis substantially parallel to the first axis; and wherein a first cable is frictionally engaged with the second drive shaft and linked to the first end of the first linear horizontal support member, and a second cable is frictionally engaged with the drive shaft and linked to the second end of the first linear horizontal support member. 17. The force reflecting apparatus of claim 10 wherein the second linear horizontal support member has a first end and a second end, each end being slidably linked to the base, and wherein the apparatus further comprises a third motor operatively coupled to the first and second ends of the second linear horizontal support member. 18. The force reflecting apparatus of claim 17 wherein the third motor is coupled to a third drive shaft having an axis substantially parallel to the second axis; and wherein a first cable is frictionally engaged with the third drive shaft and linked to the first end of the second linear horizontal support member, and a second cable is frictionally engaged with the drive shaft and linked to the second end of the second linear horizontal support member. 19. The force reflecting apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first drive shaft is splined and is rotationally linked to a second hangar, and the slidable mounting of the first drive pulley with the first drive shaft further comprises at least one splined cylinder having recirculating ball bearings concentrically disposed over and engaging the first drive shaft, and at least one roller bearing disposed intermediate the first drive pulley and the second hangar, wherein the first drive pulley is in rotational registry with the at least one splined cylinder and rotates relative to the second hangar. 20. In a force reflecting apparatus having a base and a horizontally moveable stage, the improvement comprising: at least one vertical support member slidingly engaged with the stage wherein the at least one vertical support member is connected at a first end to an upper member and to a lower member at a second end to thereby define a column; and at least one structural support member connected at a first end to the upper member and to the lower member at a second end wherein the at least one structural support member does not engage the stage. 21. The improvement of claim 20 wherein the at least one vertical support member has a circular cross section and is disposed in the stage wherein the stage defines an aperture having a linear bearing therein sized to receive the at least one vertical support member. 22. The improvement of claim 21 wherein the aperture defined by the stage includes a clamp feature whereby the radius of the aperture can be decreased upon tightening of the clamp feature. 23. The improvement of claim 22 further comprising the presence of a dampening material intermediate the stage and the linear bearing. 24. The improvement of claim 20 wherein the at least one vertical support member has an internal volume at least partially filled with a dampening material. 25. In a force reflecting apparatus having a base and a horizontally moveable stage, the improvement comprising: a first motor mounted to the base; a first drive shaft linked to the motor; a drive pulley axially slidable on the first drive shaft and selectively responsive to horizontal movement of the stage; at least one vertical support column slidingly engaged with the stage wherein the at least one vertical support column is connected at a first end to a pedestal and to an entablature at a second end; a first, a second, a third, and a fourth lateral cable guide located at the stage wherein the first and the fourth cable guides are proximate to one another; and the second and the third cable guides are proximate to one another; a first and a second column cable guide wherein the first column guide is located at the entablature and the second column guide is located at the pedestal; a cable hanger slidingly mounted to the base and selectively responsive to horizontal movement of the stage; and a cable having a first end attached to the cable hanger wherein the cable passes about, in order, the first lateral guide, the first column guide, the second lateral guide, the first drive pulley, the third lateral guide, the second column guide, and the fourth lateral cable guide where after the second end of the cable terminates at the cable hanger. 26. A force reflecting apparatus having at least three degrees of freedom for providing force reflection to a user comprising: a base to provide a mechanical ground; a first support shaft slidingly mounted to the base in a first direction; a second support shaft slidingly mounted to the base in a second direction wherein the second direction is substantially orthogonal to the first direction; a stage defining a first bore sized to receive the first support shaft and having an axis coincident with the first direction, a second bore sized to receive the second support shaft and having an axis coincident with the second direction, and further defining a third bore having an axis orthogonal to the first shaft direction and the second shaft direction; a first motor mounted to the base and coupled to a rotatable first drive shaft; a first drive pulley slidably mounted about the first drive shaft wherein the first drive pulley is translatonally linked to the first support shaft; a platform including a third support shaft member slidably engaged with the stage wherein the third support shaft member is sized to slidably fit within the stage third bore; and cable transmission means for translating rotational movement of the first drive pulley into vertical movement of the platform independent of and unaffected by movement of the stage in the first or second directions. 