A planarizing machine and a method for reducing the number of residual particles on wafers and other substrates after CMP processing. In one embodiment, the planarizing machine has a platen mounted to a support structure, a polishing pad positioned on the platen, and a wafer carrier with a chuck. The polishing pad has a planarizing surface facing away from the platen, and the wafer carrier assembly is adapted to hold the backside of the wafer in the chuck and engage the front face of the wafer with the planarizing surface of the polishing pad. The planarizing machine also has a wafer loading assembly with a pedestal upon which the wafer is placed to load and unload the wafer to the chuck. The pedestal is preferably connected to an actuator that raises and lowers the pedestal with respect to the wafer carrier assembly. A particle barrier film is positioned in the chuck to engage the backside of the wafer and/or on the pedestal to engage the front face of the wafer. The particle barrier film is preferably a substantially non-porous film that does not entrap residual particles. Thus, substantially all of the residual particles are readily removed from the particle barrier film by a wash fluid to reduce the number of residual particles on surfaces of the CMP machine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate loading/unloading assembly for attaching a substrate to a substrate carrier of a chemical-mechanical planarization machine, comprising: a pedestal having an upwardly facing mounting surface; and a particle barrier film positioned on the mounting surface to engage the substrate, the barrier film having a top surface substantially devoid of depressions in which residual particles may be protected from a wash fluid. 2. The substrate loading/unloading assembly of claim 1 wherein the barrier film comprises a closed-cell foam. 3. The substrate loading/unloading assembly of claim 2 wherein the closed-cell foam comprises closed-cell polyurethane. 4. The substrate loading/unloading assembly of claim 1, further comprising another barrier film positioned in the substrate carrier. 5. A mounting system for attaching a substrate to a substrate carrier of a chemical-mechanical planarization machine, comprising: a pedestal having an upwardly facing mounting surface; and a particle barrier film positioned on the mounting surface to engage the substrate, the film having a top surface that supports residual particles in a manner that exposes side portions of the residual particles to a wash stream. 6. The mounting system of claim 5 wherein the barrier film comprises a closed-cell foam. 7. The mounting system of claim 6 wherein the closed-cell foam comprises closed-cell polyurethane. 8. The mounting system of claim 6, further comprising another barrier film positioned in the substrate carrier. 9. A substrate loading/unloading pedestal for attaching a substrate to a substrate carrier of a chemical-mechanical planarization machine, comprising: a platform having a mounting surface; and a particle barrier film positioned on the mounting surface, the barrier film having a surface with a topography upon which residual particles reside so that a substantial portion of each residual particle is elevated above the topography of the top surface. 10. The substrate loading/unloading pedestal of claim 9 wherein the barrier film comprises a closed-cell foam. 11. The substrate loading/unloading pedestal of claim 10 wherein the closed-cell foam comprises closed-cell polyurethane. 12. The substrate loading/unloading pedestal of claim 9, further comprising another barrier film positioned in the substrate carrier. 