An apparatus and method for forming a lens using a structure having a front mold, a rear mold, and a gasket having opposed ends and defining an axially extending bore in which the front and rear molds are disposed within the bore and spaced apart from each other therein, comprising a piston for axially moving within the bore of the gasket a selected one of the front mold or the rear mold relative to the other mold to a desired one of a plurality of axial separation distances between the molds. A needle also preferably also communicates with the bore of the gasket between the molds to provide fluid communication between the outer surface of the gasket and the bore to facilitate axial movement of the molds relative to each other. Another needle is used for injecting a desired amount of a lens-forming fluid into the bore of the gasket intermediate the front and rear molds, in which the fluid is cured to form the lens.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for forming a lens using a structure having a front mold, a rear mold and a gasket, wherein the gasket has a first end and a second end, a body portion joining the first end and the second end and having an outer surface, a bore extending axially through the body portion for receiving the front mold and the rear mold, the bore having a longitudinal axis, and at least one port formed intermediate the outer surface of the body portion and the bore, the port being separated from the ambient air by the outer surface of the body portion and being in fluid communication with the bore, comprising: a. means for supporting the structure; b. means for axially moving within the bore of the gasket a selected one of the front mold or the rear mold relative to the other mold to a desired one of a plurality of axial separation distances between the molds to provide a different molding cavity intermediate the front and rear molds for each separation distance, the molding cavity being in fluid communication with the port; c. means for providing fluid communication between the outer surface of the gasket and the molding cavity to facilitate axial movement of the molds relative to each other; and d. movable means for injecting a desired amount of a lens-forming fluid into the molding cavity through the port. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the axial moving means comprises: a. a piston adapted to engage a selected one of the molds when the mold is disposed within the bore of the gasket; b. an actuator which generates an output; c. means for mechanically coupling the actuator to the piston so that the output of the actuator translates into movement of the piston; and d. means for energizing the actuator. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for securing the molds within the bore at the desired separation distance from each other. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the securing means comprises a radial clamp. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the providing means comprises: a. a vent needle having a base end and a tip end adapted to penetrate through a portion of the gasket to communicate with the molding cavity thereof, wherein the tip end is in fluid communication with the base end to allow fluid flow therebetween; and b. means for shifting the vent needle between a first position, in which the tip end of the vent needle is in fluid communication with the molding cavity of the gasket, and a second position, in which the tip end is spaced apart from the gasket and the molding cavity thereof. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising means for detecting a level of the lens-forming fluid injected by the injecting means into the molding cavity. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the detecting means comprises: a. means, in fluid communication with the vent needle, for creating a sub-atmospheric pressure in a portion of the vent needle; and b. means, in fluid communication with the vent needle, for sensing pressure in the vent needle, wherein the pressure sensor means detects a pressure increase when the molding cavity is filled with the lens-forming fluid so that the lens-forming fluid communicates with the tip end of the vent needle. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the movable injecting means comprises: a. an injection needle having an insertion end that penetrates through a portion of the gasket to communicate with the port, a receiving end adapted to be in fluid communication with a supply of the lens-forming fluid, and a passage therethrough that allows the lens-forming fluid to traverse from the receiving end through the passage and out of the insertion end to communicate with the port; and b. means for conveying the injection needle between an insert position, in which the insertion end of the injection needle is in fluid communication with the port, and a withdrawn position, in which the insertion end is spaced apart from the gasket and the port thereof. 9. An apparatus for forming a lens, comprising: a. means for supporting a lens-forming structure, the structure having a front mold, a rear mold and a gasket, wherein the gasket has a first end and a second end, a body portion joining the first end and the second end and having an outer surface, a bore extending axially through the body portion for receiving the front mold and the rear mold, the bore having a longitudinal axis, and at least one port formed intermediate the outer surface of the body portion and the bore, the port being separated from the ambient air by the outer surface of the body portion and being in fluid communication with the bore; b. means for axially moving within the bore of the gasket a selected one of the front mold or the rear mold relative to the other mold to a desired one of a plurality of axial separation distances between the molds to provide a different molding cavity intermediate the front and rear molds for each separation distance, the molding cavity being in fluid communication with the port; c. means for providing fluid communication between the outer surface of the gasket and the molding cavity to facilitate axial movement of the molds relative to each other; and d. movable means for injecting a desired amount of a lens-forming fluid from a supply of the lens-forming fluid into the molding cavity through the port; wherein the fluid communication between the port and the supply of the lens-forming supply is terminated after the desired amount of the lens-forming fluid is placed into the molding cavity for curing. 10. An apparatus for assembling a lens-forming structure, comprising: a. means for supporting the lens-forming structure, the structure having a front mold, a rear mold and a gasket, wherein the gasket has a first end and a second end, a body portion joining the first end and the second end having an outer surface, a bore extending axially through the body portion for receiving the front mold and the rear mold, the bore having a longitudinal axis, and at least one port formed intermediate the outer surface of the body portion and the bore, the port being separated from the ambient air by the outer surface of the body portion and being in fluid communication with the bore; and b. means for moving a selected one of the front mold or the rear mold to a desired one of a plurality of axial positions in which the separation distance between the molds in the bore of the gasket is different for each desired axial position, thereby providing a different molding cavity intermediate the front and rear molds for receiving a lens-forming fluid for curing, the molding cavity being in fluid communication with the port. 11. An apparatus for assembling a lens-forming structure, comprising: a. a support for the lens-forming structure, the structure having a front mold, a rear mold and a gasket, wherein the gasket has a first end and a second end, a body portion joining the first end and the second end having an outer surface, a bore extending axially through the body portion for receiving the front mold and the rear mold, the bore having a longitudinal axis, and at least one port formed intermediate the outer surface of the body portion and the bore, the port being separated from the ambient air by the outer surface of the body portion and being in fluid communication with the bore; b. a piston adapted to detachably engage a selected one of the front mold or the rear mold when the molds are disposed within the bore of the gasket; c. an actuator which generates an output; d. a mechanical link for coupling the actuator to a portion of the piston so that the output of the actuator translates into movement of the piston, wherein the piston moves the detachably engaged mold to a desired one of a plurality of axial positions in which the separation distance between the molds in the bore of the gasket is different for each desired axial position, thereby providing a different molding cavity intermediate the front and rear molds for receiving a lens-forming fluid for curing the molding cavity being in fluid communication with the port; and e. means for energizing the actuator. 12. A method of forming a lens using a lens-forming structure, the structure having a front mold, a rear mold, and a gasket, wherein the gasket has a first end and a second end a body portion joining the first end and the second end and having an outer surface, a bore extending axially through the body portion for receiving the front mold and the rear mold, the bore having a longitudinal axis, and at least one port formed intermediate the outer surface of the body portion and the bore the port being separated from the ambient air by the outer surface of the body portion and being in fluid communication with the bore, comprising: a. inserting the rear mold into the bore of the gasket; b. placing the front mold into the bore of the gasket; c. providing fluid communication between the outer surface of the gasket and the bore intermediate the front and rear molds through the port after the molds have been inserted therein; d. injecting a desired amount of a lens-forming fluid from a supply of the lens-forming fluid through the port into the bore of the gasket intermediate the front and rear molds through the fluid communication; and e. terminating the fluid communication between the supply of the fluid communication and the bore through the port before curing the lens-forming fluid. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of the axially moving within the bore of the gasket a selected one of the front mold or the rear mold relative to the other mold to a desired one of a plurality of axial separation distances between the molds to provide a different molding cavity for receiving the lens-forming fluid for each separation distance, the molding cavity being in fluid communication with the port. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the axially moving step occurs before the injecting step and the terminating step occurs after the injecting step. 