An apparatus for centering and gripping semiconductor wafers. A solenoid is used to actuate two or three curved contacts. Power to the solenoid, and position information from the solenoid is transmitted along a pair of wires. To center the wafer, the solenoid is actuated and the contacts move radially towards the center of the wafer. The contacts grip the edge of the wafer and a pulse-width-modulation signal is used to determine solenoid position as a function of back electromotive force value or waveform. During handling, the contacts hold the wafer such that the wafer does not move relative to the apparatus.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for centering a semiconductor wafer comprising: a movable platform for receiving a wafer; a solenoid for detecting at least one state in the wafer; and a plurality of curved contacts mounted on the movable platform, the plurality of contacts substantially centering the wafer on the movable platform when the solenoid actuated the contacts to move radially into the wafer thereby producing a relative movement between the wafer and the movable platform. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the solenoid detects at least one state including the presence of the wafer the absence of the wafer and the contacts open. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of wires for providing position information from the plurality of curved contacts. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of curved contacts contact an edge of the wafer during wafer handling. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one contact in the plurality of curved contacts comprises an actuator, and the apparatus further comprising the solenoid coupled to each actuator for measuring wafer position. 6. A method for centering a semiconductor wafer comprising the steps of: providing a movable platform having a plurality of curved contacts mounted thereon; receiving a wafer on the platform; actuating the plurality of curved contacts by a solenoid, the solenoid detecting a state of the semiconductor wafer on the platform; and substantially centering the wafer on the platform using the plurality of curved contacts, when the solenoid actuating the plurality of curved contacts to move radially into the wafer thereby producing a relative movement between the wafer and the movable platform. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein a state includes a presence of the wafer an absence of the wafer and the contacts open. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein each contact in the plurality of curved contacts comprises an actuator, and a response to a signal applied to the actuator is monitored to sense the wafer. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the solenoid is coupled to each actuator, and the solenoid measures contact position. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein a diagnostic is performed according to a measurement by the solenoid. 11. The method of claim 6 wherein the solenoid receives a pulse-width-modulated signal and determines the position according to a back electromotive force value or waveform. 12. The method of claim 6 wherein the solenoid applies a force to each actuator according to a measured position of the actuator. 13. The method of claim 6 wherein the solenoid determines the position according to a variable capacitive value or waveform. 14. The method of claim 6 wherein the plurality of curved contacts provide position information from the contacts using a plurality of wires. 15. The method of claim 6 wherein the plurality of curved contacts contact a wafer edge during handling. 16. The method of claim 6 wherein each contact in the plurality of curved contacts comprises an actuator which is coupled to a solenoid for measuring wafer position. 17. The method of claim 6 wherein the plurality of curved contacts comprise two alignment posts, and the platform comprises a fixed blade, and centering comprises registering the wafer against the posts mounted on the blade. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein each contact is actuated and has a line of action converging to a center area. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein each contact has linear or rotating motion. 20. In an electromechanical system using a solenoid to move an object, a method for operating the solenoid comprising the steps of: applying a first signal to a solenoid; detecting a back electromotive force (EMF) signal generated by the solenoid, the detected back EMF signal indicating a first state or a second state of a wafer; and comparing the detected back EMF signal against a second signal value. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the first signal comprises a pulse-width modulated signal. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein the second signal value comprises indicating the first state or the second state of the wafer, the first state including a presence of the wafer, and the second state including a non-presence of the wafer. 