Method and apparatus for cleaning semiconductor devices and other workpieces using an aqueous rinse solution which is de-oxygenated by passing the aqueous rinse solution and a carrier gas through an osmotic membrane degasifier. A cleaning chamber is also disclosed for carrying out the cleaning method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a treatment chamber defining a cavity for receiving the workpiece and a device opening through which said workpiece is passed into and out of the cavity; an osmotic membrane degasifier defining a degasifier cavity, a membrane dividing the degasifier cavity into first and second parts, an aqueous solution inlet and an aqueous solution outlet associated with said first part to direct aqueous solution into contact with one side of the membrane, and a carrier fluid inlet and a carrier fluid outlet associated with said second part to direct carrier fluid into contact with the other side of the membrane; and the aqueous solution outlet coupled to the treatment chamber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plenum coupled to the treatment chamber and defining a mixing chamber coupled to the aqueous solution outlet. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a chemical opening for introducing a processing chemical into the mixing chamber. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of covers hingedly connected to said treatment chamber to selectively cover said device opening. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 further comprising fluid blanket means for inserting a gas blanket enclosed within said cavity. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said gas blanket means is disposed in one of said covers. 7. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said gas blanket is at least partially comprised of carbon dioxide gas. 8. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein at least one of said covers is light blocking. 9. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein one of said covers includes a heater means to prevent condensation. 10. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein one of said covers includes means for injecting a rinse agent into said chamber. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said one cover further includes means for directing a drying gas into said chamber. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said treatment chamber includes a cavity wall defining said cavity, said apparatus further comprising agitation means coupled to at least one of said cavity wall and said aqueous solution. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said agitation means comprises ultrasonic transducer means coupled to at least one of said cavity wall and said aqueous solution. 14. The apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said agitation means comprises megahertz frequency transducer means coupled to at least one of said cavity wall and said aqueous solution to impart agitation energy thereto. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: said treatment chamber further defines an overflow weir. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising: a storage tank; and means for coupling said weir to said storage tank. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: one of said treatment chamber and said plenum defining a return outlet; and means for coupling said return outlet to said storage tank. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising a plenum coupled to the treatment chamber, said plenum defining a mixing chamber coupled to the aqueous solution outlet and containing said return outlet. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: oxygen sensor means for sensing the oxygen content in the aqueous solution outlet; and flow control means coupled to said sensor and responsive thereto for controlling the flow of carrier fluid at said carrier fluid inlet. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said carrier fluid comprises a composition of first-and second gases and said flow control means comprises means for controlling the flow of each of said components. 21. The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising particle counting means disposed in said treatment chamber for counting the particles transferred from said workpiece to said aqueous fluid in said cavity. 22. Apparatus for processing a semiconductor device, comprising: a treatment chamber defining a cavity for receiving the semiconductor device with a device opening through which said semiconductor device is passed into and out of the cavity; a plenum coupled to the treatment chamber and defining a mixing chamber including a aqueous solution inlet opening for introducing aqueous solution into the mixing chamber and a nonaqueous solvent opening for introducing a nonaqueous solvent into the mixing chamber; and an osmotic membrane degasifier defining a degasifier cavity, a membrane dividing the degasifier cavity into first and second parts, an aqueous solution inlet and a aqueous solution outlet associated with said first part, and a carrier fluid inlet and a carrier fluid outlet associated with said second part, with the aqueous solution outlet coupled to the aqueous solution inlet opening of said plenum. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising a plurality of covers hingedly connected to said treatment chamber to selectively cover said device opening. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein at least one of said covers is light blocking. 25. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein one of said covers includes a heater means to prevent condensation. 26. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein one of said covers includes means for injecting a rinse agent into said chamber. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said one cover further includes means for directing a drying gas into said chamber. 28. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said treatment chamber includes a cavity wall defining said cavity, said apparatus further comprising sonic agitation means coupled to one of said cavity wall and said aqueous solution. 29. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said treatment chamber further defines an overflow weir. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 further comprising: a storage tank; and means for coupling said weir to said storage tank. 31. The apparatus of claim 30 further comprising: one of said treatment chamber and said plenum defining a return outlet; and means for coupling said return outlet to said storage tank. 32. The apparatus of claim 31 further comprising a plenum coupled to the treatment chamber, said plenum defining a mixing chamber coupled to the aqueous solution outlet and containing said return outlet. 33. The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising: oxygen sensor means for sensing the oxygen content in the aqueous solution outlet; and flow control means coupled to said sensor and responsive thereto for controlling the flow of carrier fluid at said carrier fluid inlet. 34. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein said carrier fluid comprises a composition of first-and second fluids and said flow control means comprises means for controlling the flow of each of said fluid components. 35. The apparatus according to claim 22 further comprising particle counting means disposed in said treatment chamber for counting the particles transferred from said workpiece to said aqueous fluid in said cavity. 