A stabilizing fixture particularly suited for use with a robot end effector and holding relatively flexible components while they are cut, trimmed, or otherwise machined by the end effector. The fixture includes a chassis with wheels and a plurality of upwardly projecting posts that support an upper frame. The upper frame defines a platform for supporting, aligning, and stabilizing a flexible workpiece. The frame includes a two L-shaped brackets to support the workpiece and one or more vacuum-powered suction cups for tightly gripping and holding the workpiece against the brackets.
Claims We claim: 1. A stabilizing fixture for mounting a flexible work piece to be machined by a robot end effector, the flexible work piece having a wall of a predetermined length and a rim extending a predetermined distance from the wall, the stabilizing fixture comprising: a rigid frame extending substantially along the length of the wall forming a platform for supporting the work piece; a first angle bracket attached to the frame and extending along the length of the frame, said first angle bracket including a first upwardly extending flange and a second outwardly extending flange, the first upwardly extending flange extending in a first predetermined direction a first predetermined distance, forming a first shoulder for engaging the rim of the work piece and aligning the work piece with the robot; a second angle bracket attached to the first angle bracket and extending along the length of the frame, said second angle bracket including a first downwardly extending flange and a second outwardly extending flange, the second outwardly extending flange extending in a second predetermined direction a second predetermined distance, forming a second shoulder against which the rim can be pressed as the work piece is flexed. 2. The stabilizing fixture of claim 1, wherein said first and second shoulders extend substantially parallel to a linear path of travel followed by the robot end effector. 3. The stabilizing fixture of claim 2, wherein said first angle bracket is removably secured to said frame, and said second angle bracket is removably secured to said first angle bracket. 4. The stabilizing fixture of claim 3, wherein said first downwardly extending flange of said second angle bracket is nested in and attached to the first upwardly extending flange of said first angle bracket. 5. The stabilizing fixture of claim 1, further comprising a chassis for supporting said frame and wheels for moving said frame to predetermined positions along a guide track. 6. The stabilizing fixture of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of vacuum cups for engaging the rim of the work piece and drawing the rim toward the second outwardly extending flange of said second angle bracket. 7. The stabilizing fixture of claim 6, wherein each of said vacuum cups includes a bellowed vacuum supply tube which contracts under vacuum pressure supplied to the vacuum cups. 8. A stabilizing fixture comprising: a chassis having a plurality of upwardly projecting posts; a frame supported by said posts; a first angle bracket attached to the frame having an upwardly extending flange and a horizontally extending flange, the upwardly extending flange having a free end for engaging a work piece; a second angle bracket mounted on the first angle bracket and having a downwardly extending flange, and a horizontally extending flange with at least one aperture and a free end for engaging the work piece; and a suction device mounted on the frame and projecting through at least one aperture in the second angle bracket, the suction device for drawing the work piece onto the frame so that a portion of the work piece rests on the free end of the first angle bracket and a second portion of the work piece rests on the free end of the second angle bracket. 9. The stabilizing fixture of claim 8, further comprising a plurality of wheels mounted on the chassis. 10. The stabilizing fixture of claim 8, wherein the suction device is pivotally mounted to the second angle bracket and coupled to a vacuum source. 