A hidden storage system incorporated in the bed of a vehicle without altering the bed's external appearance, either by assembly of individual components or modules containing various individual components. The storage system is located adjacent the wheel well sections of the bed, and uses hinges to open and close the fender/side panel of the bed, either upwardly or downwardly. Since the storage system does not alter the truck's external appearance, it reduces the attraction for theft. Also, since the storage area does not extend inwardly beyond the conventional wheel wells, the storage system leaves most of the truck bed free for use. The hidden storage system may incorporated into the bed by conversion of an existing bed as well as by an initial fabrication method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for fabricating a modified vehicle bed with a hidden storage area having a predetermined height located entirely within the modified bed and intermediate modified side panels defining a width of the modified bed, the width and external appearance of the modified bed being the same as that of a substantially identical conventional vehicle bed without any hidden storage area, comprising: assembling components into a plurality of modules which together form said modified bed having said hidden storage area located entirely therein and adjacent at least one of the modified side panels of the bed, providing at least one of the modified side panels with at least one hinged section having a height substantially the same as the height of the hidden storage area, and assembling the modules to produce the modified bed with the hidden storage area located entirely therein. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein assembling the components is carried out to provide said hidden storage area adjacent each of the modified side panels of the bed. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein providing at least one of the modified side panels with at least one hinged section additionally including hinging the at least one hinged section so as to open upwardly or downwardly. 4. The method of claim 1, additionally including providing the at least one hinged section with an unexposed mechanism for retaining the at least one hinged section closed. 5. The method of claim 1, additionally including providing the hidden storage area with at least one shelf/compartment. 6. The method of claim 1, additionally including providing the modified vehicle bed with a plurality of support members having collapsible sections. 7. The method of claim 6, additionally including providing the modified side panels with openings therein into which ends of the support members extend. 8. The method of claim 1, additionally including providing at least one of the modified side panels with a plurality of hinged sections, and hinging said plurality of sections to enable movement thereof in an upward or downward direction. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein assembling the components additionally includes providing said hidden storage area with a plurality of individual compartments. 10. The method of claim 9, additionally including providing at least one of the modified side panels with a hinged section for each of the plurality of individual compartments. 11. The method of claim 10, additionally including providing means for retaining each hinged section closed. 12. A modular method for producing a modified vehicle bed having a hidden storage area located entirely therein and intermediate modified side panels defining a width of the modified bed, the width and external appearance of the modified bed being the same as that of a substantially identical conventional vehicle bed without any hidden storage area therein, comprising: forming a floor module, forming a bulkhead module, forming a tailgate module, forming two modified side panel modules, said hidden storage area being in at least one of said side panel modules and having the same external appearance as that of a conventional vehicle, forming at least one hinged section in said at least one of said modified side panel modules having a height of at least the height of the hidden storage area, providing an unexposed mechanism for retaining the at least one hinged section closed, and assembling the formed modules into said modified vehicle bed having the hidden storage area located entirely therein. 13. The modular method or claim 12, wherein forming the floor module includes providing a plurality of support beams having collapsible sections. 14. The modular method of claim 13, wherein forming the two modified side panel modules includes providing openings therein into which ends of the support beams extend. 15. The modular method of claim 12, wherein providing the unexposed mechanism for retaining the at least one hinged section closed is carried out by providing an unexposed lock/latch mechanism for the at least one hinged section. 16. The modular method of claim 12, additionally including providing said hidden storage area with a plurality of individual compartments. 17. The modular method of claim 16, additionally including forming a hinged section in said at least one modified side panel module for each of the plurality of individual compartments. 18. The modular method of claim 16, additionally including forming at least one shelf in at least one of the plurality of individual compartments. 19. The modular method of claim 12, additionally including forming said hidden storage area to include at least one shelf or compartment therein. 20. The modular method of claim 12, wherein forming at least one hinged section in said at least one modified side panel module additionally includes hinging the at least one section to open outwardly and either downwardly or upwardly. 