An apparatus for braking a rotating member having an engaged state and a disengaged state is disclosed. Rotation of the rotating member is inhibited by the apparatus when the apparatus is in the engaged state. The braking apparatus includes a housing, an actuator, and a first brake structure. The first brake structure includes a brake pad having a contact surface. The brake structure is pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator. The actuator is operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structure, thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surface toward the rotating member. The frictional force between the rotating member and the contact surface and elastic deformation of one of the rotating member and the contact surface causes further arcuate motion of the contact surface toward the rotating member and places the apparatus in the engaged state.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for braking a rotating member, the apparatus having an engaged state and a disengaged state wherein rotation of the rotating member is inhibited by the apparatus when the apparatus is in the engaged state, comprising: a) a housing; b) an actuator; and c) a first brake structure including a brake pad, the brake pad having a contact surface, the brake structure being pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator; wherein the actuator is operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structure, thereby causing motion of the contact surface in a first arcuate direction toward the rotating member, and wherein subsequent frictional force between the rotating member and the contact surface and elastic deformation of one of the rotating member and the contact surface cause further motion of the contact surface in the first arcuate direction toward the rotating member and places the apparatus in the engaged state. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the actuator is further operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structure, such that the actuator causes arcuate motion of the contact surface in a first axial direction with respect to the rotating member toward the rotating member. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a second brake structure including a second brake pad having a contact surface, the second brake structure being pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator and wherein the actuator is operable to cause pivotal motion of the second brake structure, thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surface of the second brake pad in a second axial direction with respect to the rotating member toward the rotating member. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the actuator further includes a spring-loaded linkage that biases the contact surface toward the rotating member, thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surface toward the rotating member. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the actuator further comprises a brake release device coupled to the spring-loaded linkage that controllably urges the contact surface away from the rotating member to place the apparatus in the disengaged state. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the brake release device comprises a solenoid having a plunger, and wherein the plunger engages the spring-loaded linkage and overcomes the bias of the spring-loaded linkage, thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surface away from the rotating member. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the brake pad is constructed of a material that is elastically deformable. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the contact surface is substantially convex. 9. An apparatus for braking a rotating member, the apparatus having an engaged state and a disengaged state wherein rotation of the rotating member is inhibited by the apparatus when the apparatus is in the engaged state, comprising: a) a housing; b) an actuator; c) a first brake structure including a brake pad, the brake pad being elastically deformable and having a substantially convex contact surface, the first brake structure being pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator; and wherein the actuator is operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structure about an axis that is substantially radial with respect to the rotating member, thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surface toward an engagement surface of the rotating member so as to place the apparatus in the engaged state. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the actuator is further operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structure, such that the actuator causes arcuate motion of the contact surface in a first axial direction toward the engagement surface of the rotating member. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising a second brake structure including a second brake pad, the second brake pad being elastically deformable and having a substantially convex second contact surface, the brake structure being pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator, and wherein the actuator is operable to cause pivotal motion of the second brake structure, thereby causing arcuate motion of the second contact surface in a second axial direction with respect to the rotating member toward a second engagement surface of the rotating member. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the actuator further includes a spring-loaded linkage that biases the contact surface toward the rotating member, thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surface toward engagement surface of the rotating member. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the actuator further comprises a brake release device coupled to the spring-loaded linkage that controllably urges the contact surface away from the engagement surface of the rotating member to place the apparatus in the disengaged state. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the brake release device comprises a solenoid having a plunger, and wherein the plunger engages the spring-loaded linkage, and overcomes the bias of the spring loaded linkage thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surface away from the engagement surface of the rotating member. 15. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising an opposing brake structure including an opposing brake pad, the opposing brake pad being elastically deformable and having a substantially convex contact surface, the opposing brake structure being pivotably connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator, and wherein the actuator is further operable to cause pivotal motion of the opposing brake structure in the opposite rotational direction of the pivotal motion of the first brake structure, thereby causing arcuate motion that moves the contact surface of the opposing brake pad toward the engagement surface of the rotating member. 16. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising an opposing brake structure including an opposing brake pad, the opposing brake pad being elastically deformable and having a substantially convex contact surface, the opposing brake structure being pivotably connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator, and wherein the actuator is further operable to cause pivotal motion of the opposing brake structure in a second axial direction opposite to the first axial direction of the pivotal motion of the first brake structure, thereby causing arcuate motion that moves the contact surface of the opposing brake pad toward the engagement surface of the rotating member. 17. An apparatus for braking a rotating member, the apparatus having an engaged state and a disengaged state wherein rotation of the rotating member is inhibited by the apparatus when the apparatus is in the engaged state, comprising: a) a housing; b) an actuator; c) a first brake structure including a brake pad, the brake pad having a contact surface, the first brake structure being pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator; d) a second brake structure including a brake pad, the brake pad having a contact surface, the second brake structure being pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator; e) a third brake structure including a brake pad, the brake pad having a contact surface, the third brake structure being pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator; and f) a fourth brake structure including a brake pad, the brake pad having a contact surface, the fourth brake structure being pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator; wherein the actuator is operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structures, thereby causing arcuate motion of each contact surface of a respective brake structure toward the rotating member, and wherein frictional force between the rotating member and at least one contact surface of the brake structures and elastic deformation of one of the rotating member and the contact surfaces causes further arcuate motion of the contact surface toward the rotating member and places the apparatus in the engaged state. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, the actuator further comprising: a) a first lever having a first end secured to the first brake structure, a center portion pivotably secured to the housing at a pivot point, and a second end secured to the third brake structure; b) a second lever having a first end secured to the second brake structure, a center portion pivotably secured to the housing at the pivot point, and a second end secured to the fourth brake structure such that the first lever and the second lever form a scissors-like linkage; c) a first spring having one end attached to the first end of the first lever and the other end attached to the first end of the second lever, such that the spring biases the first brake structure and the second brake structure toward the rotating member; and d) a second spring having one end attached to the second end of the first lever and the other end attached to the second end of the second lever, such that the spring biases the third brake structure and the fourth brake structure toward the rotating member; wherein the spring biases of the first spring and the second spring place the apparatus in the engaged state. 19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the rotating member is operable to rotate in a first direction and a second direction; and wherein placement the first brake structure and the second brake structure in the engagement state inhibits rotation of the rotation member in the first direction, thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surfaces on the first brake structure and the second brake structure toward the rotating member, frictional force between the rotating member and the contact surfaces on the first brake structure and the second brake structure and elastic deformation of one of the rotating member and the contact surfaces of the first brake structure and the second brake structure causes further arcuate motion of the contact surfaces of the first brake structure and the second brake structure toward the rotating member, placement the second brake structure and the fourth brake structure in the engagement state inhibits rotation of the rotation member in the second direction, thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surfaces on the third brake structure and the fourth brake structure toward the rotating member, frictional force between the rotating member and the contact surfaces on the third brake structure and the fourth brake structure and elastic deformation of one of the rotating member and the contact surfaces of the third brake structure and the fourth brake structure causes further arcuate motion of the contact surfaces of the third brake structure and the fourth brake structure toward the rotating member. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the actuator further comprises: a solenoid having a plunger, said plunger operable to move the first end of the first lever toward the first end of the second lever so as to remove the spring bias of the first spring from the first lever and the second lever, said plunger further operable to move the second end of the second lever toward the second end of the first lever so as to remove the spring bias of the second spring from the first lever and the second lever; and wherein removal of the bias of the first spring and removal of the bias of the second spring from the first lever and the second lever places the apparatus in the disengaged state. 21. An apparatus for braking a rotating member, the apparatus having an engaged state and a disengaged state wherein rotation of the rotating member is inhibited by the apparatus when the apparatus is in the engaged state, comprising: a) a housing; b) an actuator; and c) a first brake structure including a brake pad, the brake pad having a contact surface, the brake structure connected to the actuator, the brake structure further pivotally connected to the housing proximate a first end of the contact surface, said pivotal connection defining an axis that is substantially radial with respect to the rotating member; wherein the actuator is operable to cause motion of the brake structure, thereby causing motion of the contact surface toward the rotating member, and wherein frictional force between the rotating member and the contact surface and elastic deformation of one of the rotating member and the contact surface cause arcuate motion of the contact surface about the axis toward the rotating member and places the apparatus in the engaged state. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the actuator is further operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structure about the defined axis. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the actuator is further operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structure in a first arcuate direction, and wherein the frictional force between the rotating member and contact surface and elastic deformation of one of the rotating member and contact surface causes arcuate motion of the contact surface in the first arcuate direction toward the rotating member. 