An apparatus and methods are provided for performing maintenance procedures such as washing, cleaning, deicing, and painting to an aircraft. The apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention preferably has a mobile base having a plurality of wheel members for allowing the mobile base to travel along surfaces and a plurality of support surface registering members for registering the mobile base to a support surface to inhibit movement of the plurality of wheel members. The apparatus also preferably has a boom member having a proximal end portion rotatably mounted to the mobile base and being movable between a retracted position and an extended position and an aircraft maintenance tool rotatably connected to a distal end portion of the boom member.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. An apparatus for maintaining an aircraft, the apparatus comprising: a mobile base having rotating means for providing rotational movement of said mobile base on a support surface, said rotating means including a plurality of wheel members for allowing said mobile base to travel along surfaces, each of the plurality of wheel members including an omni-directional vehicle wheel for providing at least forward, lateral, diagonal, and rotational motion of said mobile base, and said mobile base also having a plurality of support surface registering members for registering said mobile base to a support surface to inhibit movement of the plurality of wheel members; a boom member having a proximal end portion rotatably mounted to said mobile base so that said boom member rotates in a horizontal plane substantially parallel to the support surface, said boom member being movable between a retracted position and an extended position; and an aircraft maintenance tool connected to a distal end portion of said boom member. 2. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said mobile base includes a plurality of fluid tanks connected to or mounted on said mobile base and positioned between said support surface registering members for supplying fluid to the maintenance tool. 3. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said mobile base includes a rotatable platform connected to an upper portion of the mobile base and said boom member is connected to the upper portion of said rotatable platform. 4. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said mobile base includes a rotatable platform positioned along an upper end portion thereof, and wherein said boom member includes a first boom arm having a proximal end portion pivotally connected to the rotatable platform of said mobile base and having a retracted position and an extended position, a second boom arm having a proximal end portion mounted to said first boom arm and having a retracted position and an extended position, and a third boom arm having a medial portion pivotally mounted to the distal end portion of said second boom arm and having a retracted position and an extended position. 5. An apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein said boom member further includes a fourth boom arm having a proximal end portion rotatably mounted to a distal end portion of said third boom arm. 6. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein said fourth boom arm includes a plurality of arm links, the plurality of arm links including a first arm link having a proximal end rotatably connected to the distal end portion of said third boom arm, a second arm link having a proximal end pivotally connected to the distal end of the first arm link, a third arm link having a proximal end portion pivotally connected to the second arm link, and a fourth arm link having a proximal end rotatably connected to the distal end of the third arm link. 7. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said plurality of support surface registering members each include a support surface contact member and a hydraulic engaging member connected to the support surface contact member for hydraulically engaging the support surface contact member with the support surface. 8. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said aircraft maintenance tool includes at least one of the following: an aircraft deicing tool and an aircraft cleaning tool. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein said aircraft cleaning tool includes a tool housing, a pair of cleaning brushes having at least portions thereof mounted in said tool housing, and driving means connected to said tool housing for rotatably driving said pair of cleaning brushes in opposite rotational directions. 10. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said boom member is pivotally connected to the upper portion of said rotatable platform and pivotal in a plane substantially perpendicular to the support surface, and wherein said maintenance tool is rotatably connected to said boom member. 11. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said mobile base further has an operator cab for operating the apparatus from said mobile base. 12. An apparatus for maintaining an aircraft, the apparatus comprising: a mobile base, including a mobile base portion and a fixed base platform detachably mountable to said mobile base portion so as to overlie the mobile base portion, the mobile base portion having a plurality of wheel members including an omni-directional vehicle wheel for providing at least forward, lateral, diagonal, and rotational motion of said mobile portion; a boom member having a proximal end portion rotatably mounted to said fixed base platform, said boom member being movable between a retracted position and an extended position; and an aircraft maintenance tool rotatably connected to a distal end portion of said boom member. 13. An apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein said fixed base platform includes a rotatable platform positioned at an upper portion of the fixed base platform, and wherein said boom member is connected to said rotatable platform. 14. An apparatus as defined in claim 13, wherein said boom member is pivotally connected to an upper surface of said rotatable platform and being pivotal in a plane substantially perpendicular to the support surface. 15. An apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein said fixed base platform includes a plurality of fluid supply tanks for supplying fluid to the maintenance tool, a power source, and at least one pump connected to said power source and positioned in fluid communication with said plurality of fluid tanks for pumping fluid to the maintenance tool. 16. An apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein said boom member includes a first boom arm having a proximal end portion pivotally connected to the fixed base platform and having a retracted position and an extended position, a second boom arm having a proximal end portion mounted to said first boom arm and having a retracted position and an extended position, and a third boom arm having a medial portion pivotally mounted to the distal end portion of said second boom arm and having a retracted position and an extended position. 17. An apparatus as defined in claim 16, wherein said boom member further includes a fourth boom arm having a proximal end portion rotatably mounted to a distal end portion of said third boom arm. 18. An apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein said fourth boom arm includes a plurality of arm links, the plurality of arm links including a first arm link having a proximal end rotatably connected to the distal end portion of said third boom arm, a second arm link having a proximal end pivotally connected to the distal end of the first arm link, a third arm link having a proximal end portion pivotally connected to the second arm link, and a fourth arm link having a proximal end rotatably connected to the distal end of the third arm link. 19. An apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein said fixed base platform further includes a plurality of support surface registering members each having a support surface contact member and a hydraulic engaging member connected to the support surface contact member for hydraulically engaging the support surface contact member with the support surface. 20. An apparatus as defined in claim 19, wherein said aircraft maintenance tool includes at least one of the following: an aircraft deicing tool and an aircraft cleaning tool. 21. An apparatus as defined in claim 20, wherein said aircraft cleaning tool includes a tool housing, a pair of cleaning brushes having at least portions thereof mounted in said tool housing, and driving means connected to said tool housing for rotatably driving said pair of cleaning brushes in opposite rotational directions. 22. An apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein said mobile base further has an operator cab for operating the apparatus from said mobile base. 23. An apparatus for maintaining an aircraft, the apparatus comprising: a mobile base including rotating means for providing rotational movement of said mobile base on a support surface; a boom member having a proximal end portion rotatably mounted to said mobile base; and an aircraft maintenance tool connected to a distal end portion of said boom member. 24. An apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said rotating means of said mobile base includes a plurality of wheel members each having an omni-directional vehicle wheel for providing at least forward, lateral, diagonal, and rotational motion of said mobile base. 25. An apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said mobile base includes a plurality of fluid supply tanks for supplying fluid to the maintenance tool, a power source, and a plurality of pumps connected to the power source and positioned in fluid communication with said plurality of fluid supply tanks for pumping fluid to the maintenance tool. 26. An apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said mobile base includes a rotatable platform positioned along an upper end portion thereof, and wherein said boom member includes a first boom arm having a proximal end portion pivotally connected to the rotatable platform of said mobile base and having a retracted position and an extended position, a second boom arm having a proximal end portion mounted to said first boom arm and having a retracted position and an extended position, and a third boom arm having a medial portion pivotally mounted to the distal end portion of said second boom arm and having a retracted position and an extended position. 27. An apparatus as defined in claim 26, wherein said boom member further includes a fourth boom arm having a proximal end portion rotatably mounted to a distal end portion of said third boom arm. 28. An apparatus as defined in claim 27, wherein said fourth boom arm includes a plurality of arm links, the plurality of arm links including a first arm link having a proximal end rotatably connected to the distal end portion of said third boom arm, a second arm link having a proximal end pivotally connected to the distal end of the first arm link, a third arm link having a proximal end portion pivotally connected to the second arm link, and a fourth arm link having a proximal end rotatably connected to the distal end of the third arm link. 29. An apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said base further includes a plurality of support surface registering members each having a support surface contact member and a hydraulic engaging member connected to the support surface contact member for hydraulically engaging the support surface contact member with the support surface. 30. An apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said maintenance tool is rotatably connected to said boom member. 31. An apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said aircraft maintenance tool includes at least one of the following: an aircraft deicing tool and an aircraft cleaning tool. 32. An apparatus as defined in claim 31, wherein said aircraft cleaning tool includes a tool housing, a pair of cleaning brushes having at least portions thereof mounted in said tool housing, and driving means connected to said tool housing for rotatably driving said pair of cleaning brushes in opposite rotational directions. 33. An apparatus as defined in claim 31, wherein the aircraft deicing tool includes a tool housing, a nozzle connected to said tool housing, and nozzle moving means connected to said tool housing for pivotally moving said nozzle in a first plane and for pivotally moving said nozzle in a second different plane. 34. An apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said mobile base further has an operator cab for operating the apparatus from said mobile base. 35. An apparatus for maintaining an aircraft, the apparatus comprising: a mobile base having a plurality of wheel members for allowing said mobile base to travel along surfaces, a plurality of support surface registering members for registering said mobile base to a support surface to inhibit movement of the plurality of wheel members, and a rotatable platform positioned along an upper end portion thereof; a boom member movable between a retracted position and an extended position, the boom member including a first boom arm having a proximal end portion pivotally connected to the rotatable platform of said mobile base and having a retracted position and an extended position, a second boom arm having a proximal end portion mounted to said first boom arm and having a retracted position and an extended position, a third boom arm having a medial portion pivotally mounted to the distal end portion of said second boom arm and having a retracted position and an extended position, and a fourth boom arm having a proximal end portion rotatably mounted to a distal end portion of said third boom arm; and an aircraft maintenance tool connected to a distal end portion of said boom member. 36. An apparatus for maintaining an aircraft, the apparatus comprising: a mobile base including rotating means for providing rotational movement of said mobile base on a support surface, wherein said rotating means of said mobile base includes a plurality of wheel members each having an omni-directional vehicle wheel for providing at least forward, lateral, diagonal, and rotational motion of said mobile base, and wherein said mobile base includes a rotatable platform positioned along an upper end portion thereof, a plurality of fluid supply tanks for supplying fluid to the maintenance tool, a power source, and a plurality of pumps connected to the power source and positioned in fluid communication with said plurality of fluid supply tanks for pumping fluid to the maintenance tool; a boom member including a first boom arm having a proximal end portion pivotally connected to said rotatable platform of said mobile base and having a retracted position and an extended position, a second boom arm having a proximal end portion mounted to said first boom arm and having a retracted position and an extended position, a third boom arm having a medial portion pivotally mounted to the distal end portion of said second boom arm and having a retracted position and an extended position, and a fourth boom arm having a proximal end portion rotatably mounted to a distal end portion of said third boom arm; and an aircraft maintenance tool connected to a distal end portion of said boom member. 