Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An antisense compound up to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding human Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma, wherein said antisense compound specifically hybridizes with and inhibits the expression of human Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma and wherein said antisense compound comprises at least an 8 nucleobase portion of SEQ ID NO: 20, 28, 30, 31, 35, 49, 50, 52, 53, 57, 73, 83, or 87. 2. The antisense compound of claim 1 which is an antisense oligonucleotide. 3. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The antisense compound of claim 3 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 6. The antisense compound of claim 5 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 7. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 8. The antisense compound of claim 7 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 9. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 10. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the antisense compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 11. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 10 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 12. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 11 wherein the antisense compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 13. A method of inhibiting the expression of human Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma in cells or tissues comprising contacting said cells or tissues in vitro with the antisense compound of claim 1 so that expression of human Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma is inhibited. 