A device ("RPLD") for providing automated alignment of a workpiece centerline with a machine tool centerline. RPLD 10 is designed for rigid attachment to various standard spindle designs, such as spindle 12. RPLD 10 includes a fixture 50, adapted to engage RPLD 10, for fixedly receiving workpiece 120. RPLD 10 incorporates a tilting plate 15 which allows for tilting of the fixture around three separate axis. Further, RPLD 10 incorporates cross-slide 30 for providing translational movement in a plane perpendicular to the machine tools centerline. A processing unit 60 receives data from a plurality of conventional transducers and, based on this data, activates the servo driven tilting plate and cross-slide so as to position the centerline of a workpiece to be both parallel and coincident with the centerline of a machine tool.
Claims Having thus described the aforementioned invention, I claim: 1. A device for automatically aligning a centerline of a workpiece with a centerline of a rotating machine tool, said device comprising; an attachment member adapted for rigid attachment to a machine tool spindle carried by a first end of said device; a fixture for fixedly receiving a workpiece, wherein said fixture is adapted for releasable engagement by a second end of said device; a tilting plate member for tilting said fixture positioned between said first and said second ends of said device; a cross-slide member for providing translational movement to said fixture positioned between said first and said second ends of said device; at least one transducer positioned on the workpiece for detecting a relative position and angle of a centerline of the workpiece in relation to a centerline of the machine tool; and a processing unit in electronic communication with said transducer, said tilting plate member and said cross-slide member, wherein said processing unit receives data from said transducer and controls movement of said tilting plate member and said cross-slide member based upon said data, whereby the centerline of the workpiece is positioned so as to be coincident with the centerline of the machine tool. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the centerline of the work piece is perpendicular to a selected face of the workpiece and passes through a selected diameter of the workpiece. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the centerline of the workpiece passes through centers of two specified datum diameters at opposite ends of the workpiece. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein said tilting plate includes three servo-driven threaded axis that are parallel to the centerline of the machine tool. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein said cross-slide member includes a horizontal slide member and an orthogonally displaced vertical slide member, wherein said horizontal slide member and said orthogonally displaced vertical slide member are servo-driven. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein said device is adapted so as to provide fluid communication between the machine tool and the workpiece. 7. The device of claim 1 wherein said fixture is engaged by jaws, wherein said jaws are actuated by said fixture and fixedly engage said fixture. 8. The device of claim 1 wherein said processing unit utilizes a logic circuit chosen from a group consisting of microprocessor logic, discrete logic and integrated circuit logic. 9. A device for automatically aligning a centerline of a workpiece with a centerline of a rotating machine tool, said device comprising; an attachment member adapted for rigid attachment to a machine tool spindle carried by a first end of said device; jaws carried by a second end of said device; a fixture for fixedly receiving a workpiece, wherein said fixture is adapted for releasable engagement by said jaws, wherein said jaws are actuated by said fixture; tilting means for tilting said fixture positioned between said first and said second ends of said device; means for providing translational movement to said fixture positioned between said first and said second ends of said device; detecting means for detecting a relative position and angle of a centerline of the workpiece in relation to a centerline of the machine tool; and a processing unit in electronic communication with said detecting means, said tilting means and said means for providing translational movement, wherein said processing unit receives data from said detecting means and controls movement of said tilting means and said means for providing translational movement based upon said data, whereby the centerline of the workpiece is positioned so as to be coincident with the centerline of the machine tool. 10. The device of claim 9 wherein the centerline of the work piece is perpendicular to a selected face of the workpiece and passes through a selected diameter of the workpiece. 11. The device of claim 9 wherein the centerline of the workpiece passes through centers of two specified datum diameters at opposite ends of the workpiece. 12. The device of claim 9 wherein said tilting means includes three servo-driven threaded axis that are parallel to the centerline of the machine tool. 13. The device of claim 9 wherein said means for providing translational movement includes a servo-driven horizontal slide member and an orthogonally displaced servo-driven vertical slide member. 14. The device of claim 9 wherein said device is adapted so as to provide fluid communication between the machine tool and the workpiece. 15. The device of claim 9 wherein said processing unit utilizes a logic circuit chosen from a group consisting of microprocessor logic, discrete logic and integrated circuit logic. 16. A device for automatically aligning a centerline of a workpiece with a centerline of a rotating machine tool, said device comprising; an attachment member adapted for rigid attachment to a machine tool spindle carried by a first end of said device; jaws carried by a second end of said device; a fixture for fixedly receiving a workpiece, wherein said fixture is adapted for releasable engagement by said jaws, wherein said jaws are actuated by said fixture; a tilting plate member for tilting said fixture positioned between said first and said second ends of said device, said tilting plate member including three servo-driven threaded axis that are parallel to the centerline of the machine tool; a cross-slide member for providing translational movement to said fixture positioned between said first and said second ends of said device, said cross-slide member including a servo-driven horizontal slide member and an orthogonally displaced servo-driven vertical slide member; at least one transducer positioned on the workpiece for detecting a relative position and angle of a centerline of the workpiece in relation to a centerline of the machine tool; and a processing unit in electronic communication with said transducer, said tilting plate member and said cross-slide member, wherein said processing unit receives data from said transducer and controls movement of said tilting plate member and said cross-slide member based upon said data, whereby the centerline of the workpiece is positioned so as to be coincident with the centerline of the machine tool. 17. The device of claim 16 wherein the centerline of the work piece is perpendicular to a selected face of the workpiece and passes through a selected diameter of the workpiece. 18. The device of claim 16 wherein the centerline of the workpiece passes through centers of two specified datum diameters at opposite ends of the workpiece. 19. The device of claim 16 wherein said device is adapted so as to provide fluid communication between the machine tool and the workpiece. 20. The device of claim 16 wherein said processing unit utilizes a logic circuit chosen from a group consisting of microprocessor logic, discrete logic and integrated circuit logic. 