A method and a system are provided for plating workpieces as part of an "on-track" in-line or a radially arranged manufacturing system, including "on-site" measurement of at least one plating characteristic for computer controlled process regulation and quality control. Movement of workpieces between various stations is controlled in response to a comparison of the measured value(s) of the plating characteristic(s) and (a) target value(s) or target range(s) of values.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of plating at least one workpiece in a plating system comprising three interconnected stations, which method comprises the sequential steps of: (a) supplying a workpiece from a workpiece holder to a first station of the system; (b) plating the workpiece in the first station; (c) supplying the plated workpiece to a second station of the system; (d) post-treating the plated workpiece in the second station; (e) supplying the post-treated plated substrate to a third station of the system; (f) determining the value of at least one selected property of the plating in the third station; (g) comparing the determined value(s) with (a) target value(s) or target range(s) of values, utilizing a comparison device adapted for controllably selecting from the following of four alternative steps i.-iv., which one is to be performed on the plated workpiece, based upon the comparison: i. transporting the post-treated, plated workpiece from the third station of the workpiece holder for storing therein if the determined value(s) corresponds with the target value(s) or is (are) within the target range(s) of values; ii. transporting the post-treated, plated workpiece from the third station back to the first station for additional plating thereon if the determined value(s) is (are) below the target value(s) or the target range(s) of values; iii. removing the post-treated, plated workpiece from the system if the determined value(s) indicate(s) that additional plating thereon cannot provide (a) determined value(s) corresponding with the target value(s) or within the target range(s) of values; and iv. adjusting the plating conditions within the first station to provide a later-plated workpiece with (a) determined value(s) which correspond(s) with the target value(s) or is within the target range(s) of values; (h) selecting one of steps i.-iv.; and (i) performing the selected step. 2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the workpiece comprises a semiconductor wafer substrate for an integrated semiconductor device and the workpiece holder comprises a cassette device for supplying/storing/receiving a plurality of such semiconductor wafer substrates multiply or in seriatim, comprising supplying a plurality of the semiconductor wafer substrates to the first station for plating thereon. 3. A method as in claim 2, comprising supplying only selected substrates from the second station to the third station. 4. A method as in claim 2, wherein the first station comprises an apparatus for plating a metal by electroplating, electroless plating, dipping, pasting, spraying, physical vapor deposition, or chemical vapor deposition, comprising metal plating of the semiconductor wafer for providing contacts, interlevel connections, device routing, and/or interconnects. 5. A method as in claim 4, comprising plating a metal selected from the group consisting of nickel, titanium, tantalum, tungsten, aluminum, chromium, gold, silver, copper, and alloys thereof. 6. A method as in claim 5, comprising plating copper or a copper-based alloy. 7. A method as in claim 6, comprising electroplating copper or a copper-based alloy. 8. A method as in claim 4, comprising rinsing and drying the plated semiconductor wafers in the second station. 9. A method as in claim 4, comprising determining at least one of the electrical resistivity, thickness, and reflectivity of the metal plating in the third station. 10. A method as in claim 9, comprising determining the resistivity of the metal plating using a 4-point probe or a contactless device. 11. A method as claim 1, comprising utilizing an electronic computer for comparing the determined value with the target value or target range of values. 12. A system for plating at least one workpiece, comprising: a workpiece holder for supplying/storing/receiving at least one such workpiece; a first station for receiving and plating on the at least one workpiece; a second station for receiving the at least one plated workpiece from the first station, performing post-treatment thereof, and supplying the at least one post-treated workpiece to a third station; a third station for receiving the at least one post-treated workpiece and determining the value of at least one selected property of the plating; an apparatus for controllably transporting the at least one workpiece between the stations and the workpiece holder; and a device for comparing the determined value(s) of the at least one selected plating property with (a) target value(s) or range(s) of values, the comparison device adapted to operate the system to controllably select from the following four alternative steps i.-iv., which one is to be performed on the plated workpiece, based upon the comparison: i. supplying of the plated, post-treated workpiece to the workpiece holder for receiving and/or storage therein if the determined value of the at least one selected property corresponds with the target value(s) or is (are) within the target range(s) of values; ii. supplying of the plated, post-treated workpiece back to the first, plating station for additional plating treatment if the determined value(s) of the at least one selected property is (are) below the target value(s) or the target range(s) of values; iii. removal of the plated, post-treated workpiece from the system if the determined value of the at least one selected property indicates that additional plating treatment cannot result in (a) determined value(s) corresponding with the target value(s) or within the target range(s) of values; and iv. adjustment of the plating conditions within the first station to provide a later-plated workpiece with (a) determined value(s) of the at least one selected property corresponding with the target value or is (are) within the target range(s) of values. 13. A system as in claim 12, wherein the workpiece holder comprises a cassette device for supplying/storing/receiving a plurality of semiconductor wafer substrates multiply or in seriatim, and the transporting apparatus comprises an in-line, on-track mechanism or a radially configured arrangement with a centrally positioned robotic wafer handler mechanism. 14. A system as in claim 12, wherein the first station comprises an apparatus for plating a metal by electroplating, electroless plating, dipping, pasting, spraying, physical vapor deposition, or chemical vapor deposition. 15. A system as in claim 14, wherein the first station comprises an apparatus for electroplating. 16. A system as in claim 12, wherein the second station comprises an apparatus for post-treating. 17. A system as in claim 16, wherein the apparatus for post-treating comprises an apparatus for rinsing and drying of a plated workpiece. 18. A system as in claim 12, wherein the third station for determining the value of a selected property of the plating comprises an apparatus for measuring at least one of the electrical resistivity, thickness, and reflectivity of the plating. 19. A system as in claim 18, wherein the third station comprises an apparatus for measuring at least the electrical resistivity of the plating. 20. A system as in claim 19, wherein the apparatus for measuring the electrical resistivity comprises a 4-point probe or a contactless device. 21. A system as in claim 12, wherein the comparing device comprises an electronic computer. 