A technique for integrating a film thickness monitoring sensor within a load and unload unit of a cluster tool for performing chemical-mechanical polishing (CMP). In order to determine CMP performance, a sensor (or sensors) for determining film thickness is/are integrated within the load and unload unit of the cluster tool. Accordingly, film thickness measurements can then be taken at discrete times during the processing cycle without removing the wafer from the cluster tool.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for polishing a material having a planar surface placed upon a polishing pad, the apparatus comprising: a movable housing for transferring the material, the movable housing disposed to receive the material for further transfer of the material to have the material polished and to receive the material once polishing is completed; and a sensor coupled to the movable housing to measure a polishing characteristic of the material at any discrete time during the transferring when the material rests upon said housing. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sensor is a film thickness sensor for measuring film thickness of a film being polished. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said sensor is an optical sensor. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 further including a spray nozzle coupled to said housing for spraying fluid to clean the surface of the material. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising: a robotic arm; a rotatable carrier spaced apart from the robotic arm, wherein the movable housing moves in at least one of two opposite directions during the transferring of the material between the robotic arm and the rotatable carrier for holding the material. 6. In a cluster tool for performing chemical-mechanical polishing (CMP) on a surface of a substrate or a layer formed on the substrate, an apparatus comprising: a movable housing for loading and unloading the substrate, the movable housing disposed to receive the substrate for further transfer of the substrate to have the surface polished and to receive the substrate once polishing is completed; and a sensor coupled to said housing to measure a polishing characteristic of the surface at any discrete time during the loading, during the unloading, when the substrate rests upon said housing. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said sensor is a film thickness sensor for measuring film thickness of a film being polished. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said sensor is an optical sensor. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 further including a spray nozzle coupled to said housing for spraying fluid to clean the surface. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 further including a drive mechanism coupled to said housing to raise and lower said housing for loading and unloading of the substrate. 11. In a cluster tool for performing chemical-mechanical polishing (CMP) on a layer formed on a semiconductor wafer, an apparatus comprising: a movable housing for loading and unloading the semiconductor wafer, the movable housing disposed to receive the wafer for further transfer of the wafer to have the layer polished and to receive the wafer once polishing is completed; and a sensor coupled to said housing to measure a polishing characteristic of the layer at any discrete time during the loading, during the unloading, when the wafer is placed upon said housing. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said sensor is a film thickness sensor for measuring film thickness of the layer being polished. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said sensor is an optical sensor. 14. The apparatus of claim 11 further including a spray nozzle coupled to said housing for spraying fluid to clean the wafer. 15. The apparatus of claim 11 further including a drive mechanism coupled to said housing to raise and lower said housing for loading and unloading of the wafer. 16. In a cluster tool for performing chemical-mechanical polishing (CMP) on a layer formed on a substrate, a method of monitoring a thickness of the layer being polished in a load and unload unit which loads and unloads the substrate from the cluster tool, comprising the steps of: placing the substrate onto a movable housing disposed within the load and unload unit of the cluster tool; measuring a pre-processing thickness of the layer during the transfer of the substrate using a sensor disposed in the load and unload unit while the substrate is on the movable housing; moving the housing to move the substrate for transfer to a linear polishing tool; polishing to planarize the layer on the linear polishing tool; moving the housing to receive the substrate at the load and unload unit; measuring a post-processing thickness of the layer using the sensor; and unloading the substrate from the cluster tool. 17. The method of claim 16 further including a step of cleaning the substrate before each measuring step. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein said steps of measuring the thickness is performed by optically scanning the layer using an optical sensor. 