A system and method for providing a tactile virtual reality to a user is present. The position and orientation of the user is utilized to generate a virtual reality force field. Forces are in turn generated on the user as a function of this force field. A six-axis manipulator is presented for providing a user interface to such a system. This manipulator provides a unique kinematic structure with two constant force springs which provide gravity compensation so that the manipulator effectively floats.
Claims We claim,: 1. A method for controlling force feedback in a force feedback system using a computer mediated control system, said force feedback system including at least one actuator and at least one position sensor, said method comprising: receiving input information through a communication port of said computer mediated control system, wherein commands are decoded and from said input information; receiving position data read by said position sensor, said position data indicative of a position of a user manipulatable member of said force feedback system; outputting output data on said communication port, said output data including data derived from said position data; storing a plurality of force feedback effects in a memory; and iterating through said force feedback effects to determines a force contribution from each of said force feedback effects, and outputting a force value based on said force contributions, said force value causing a force based on said force value to be output by said actuator to a user of said force feedback system. 2. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said force value is a result of summing said force contributions from each of said installed force feedback effects. 3. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said force feedback effects include at least one of a detent, a wall, and a spring. 4. A method as recited in claim 3 wherein each of said force feedback effects each include at least one parameter, and wherein said at least one parameter is at least one of a stiffness parameter, a damping parameter, a force parameter, and a distance parameter. 5. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein pointers are provided by a user of said force feedback system to install desired force feedback effects to contribute to said output force value. 6. A method as recited in claim 1 further comprising computing velocity from said position data received from said at least one position sensor and using said velocity in said determination of said force contributions. 7. A method as recited in claim 1 further comprising computing acceleration from said position data received from said at least one position sensor and using said acceleration in said determination of said force contributions. 8. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein a force feedback effect contributes to said output force value as a result of a user manipulatable object being moved by a user to enter a boundary of a force feedback effect as determined by said position data. 9. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said output data includes button press data from at least one button provided on a user manipulatable member of said force feedback system. 10. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said input information is serial in format and said input port is a serial port. 11. A computer mediated control system for use in a force feedback system, said force feedback system including at least one actuator and at least one position sensor, said control system comprising: means for receiving input information through a communication port of said control system, wherein force values are read and commands are decoded from said input information; means for outputting output data on said communication a port, said output data including position data that has been read by said position sensor; means for storing a plurality of force feedback effects; means for iterating through said force feedback effects to determine a force contribution from each of said force feedback effects; and means for summing said force contributions from each of said force feedback effects and outputting a resultant force feedback value to cause a force based on said force feedback value to be output by said actuator to a user of said force feedback system. 12. A system as recited in claim 11 wherein said force feedback effects include at least one of a detent, a wall, and a spring. 13. A system as recited in claim 12 wherein each of said force feedback effects includes at least one parameter, and wherein said at least one parameter is at least one of a stiffness parameter, a damping parameter, a force parameter, and a distance parameter. 14. A computer mediated control system for use in a force feedback system, said force feedback system including at least one actuator and at least one position sensor, said control system comprising: a memory storing a plurality of force feedback effects, each of said force feedback effects providing forces to be output to a user of said force feedback system; and a computer mediated controller coupled to said at least one actuator and to said at least one position sensor, wherein said controller: receives input information through a communication port of said computer mediate controller and decodes commands from said input information, reads force values from said communication port, outputs output data on said communication port, said output data including position data from said at least one position sensor, determines at least one installed force feedback effect to contribute to output of said force feedback system; processes said installed force feedback effect to determine a force contribution from said installed force feedback effect; and outputs a force feedback value based on said determined force contribution to cause a force based on said force feedback value to be output by said actuator to the user of said force feedback system. 15. A system as recited in claim 14 wherein said force feedback effects include at least one of a detent, a wall, and a spring. 16. A system as recited in claim 14 wherein each of said force feedback effects includes at least one parameter, and wherein said at least one parameter is at least one of a stiffness parameter, a damping parameter, a force parameter, and a distance parameter. 17. A force feedback device, comprising: a user manipulatable member having at least one degree or freedom of motion and being manipulatable by a user physically contacting said member; at least one actuator outputting forces on said member in said degree of freedom; at least one position sensor for determining a position of said member in said at least one degree of freedom; a computer mediated controller coupled to said actuator and to said at least one position sensor, wherein said controller: receives input information through a communication port of said computer mediated controller and decodes commands from said input information, reads force values from said communication port, outputs output data on said communication port, said output data including position data from said position sensor, determines at least one installed force feedback effect to contribute to output of said force feedback system; processes said installed force feedback effect to determine a force contribution from said installed force feedback effect; and outputs a force feedback value based on said determined force contribution to cause a force based on said force feedback value to be output by said actuator to the user of said force feedback system. 18. A force feedback device as recited in claim 17 wherein said user manipulatable member is a joystick. 19. A force feedback device as recited in claim 17 further comprising a deadman switch for disabling said output forces when said user is not manipulating said member. 20. A force feedback device as recited in claim 17 further comprising a gear transmission provided between said joystick and said plurality of actuators, said gear transmission transmitting said output forces from said actuators to said member. 21. A force feedback device as recited in claim 17 wherein a memory is accessible to said software controller. 22. A force feedback device as recited in claim 21 wherein said memory is non-volatile memory. 23. A force feedback device as recited in claim 17 wherein said force feedback effects include at least one of a detent, a wall, and a spring. 24. A system as recited in claim 17 wherein each of said force feedback effects includes at least one parameter, and wherein said at least one parameter is at least one of a stiffness parameter, a damping parameter, a force parameter, and a distance parameter. 