A surgical fastener in the form of a pinned retainer, instrument and method are provided for constructing a graft to artery anastomosis and other soft tissue anastomoses, particularly by minimally invasive (or endoscopic) surgery. The pinned retainer fastener is comprised of a needle and a retainer. The needle has a base, shaft and tip that allow this member to be sewn through, for example, a graft and artery to be joined. The retainer has an aperture to receive and securely engage the needle shaft to seal the graft and artery together between cooperating surfaces of the needle base and retainer. The instrument holds the needle and retainer at its distal or working end, and controls in the handle allow application of the retainer. The method employs the pinned retainer fasteners and instrument to join soft tissues and to construct graft to artery anastomoses.
Claims We claim: 1. A surgical fastener comprising: a needle including a base, a shaft and a tip, said base comprising an upper surface, a lower surface, and further comprising at least two substantially planar surfaces extending in substantially the same direction, said shaft extending from the upper surface of said base and having a retainer-engaging portion, and said tip being at an end of said shaft opposite said base and configured to pierce a graft, artery or other soft tissue, and a retainer comprising a plate comprising resilient material, said plate having an aperture defined by a portion of said plate that is adapted to engage said shaft and having means for securing the retainer at a selectable position on the retainer-engaging portion of said shaft of the needle without substantially deforming said shaft, said retainer further having a surface that cooperates with the upper surface of the base of the needle to contact and secure between those surface portions of materials together wherein at least one of the portions is tissue. 2. The fastener of claim 1 wherein the fastener has a closed state where the shaft of the needle is within the aperture of the retainer plate which is deformed by the shaft of the needle, said deformation providing a contact force to hold the retainer in place. 3. The surgical fastener of claim 1 wherein said base includes a flange and said at least two substantial planar surfaces are formed in said flange. 4. The surgical fastener of claim 1 wherein said base includes at least one slot and said at least two substantial planar surfaces are formed along said at least one slot. 5. The surgical fastener of claim 1 wherein said base includes two slots with each one of the at least two substantial planar surfaces forming a portion of one of the two slots. 6. The surgical fastener of claim 1 wherein transverse cross-section of the shaft varies along the longitudinal axis of the shaft. 7. The surgical fastener of claim 1 wherein said shaft is curved. 8. The surgical fastener of claim 7 wherein said shaft is curved along its entire length. 9. The surgical fastener of claim 1 wherein the retainer-engaging portion of the shaft comprises one or more ridges. 10. The surgical fastener of claim 1 wherein the retainer-engaging portion of the shaft comprises one or more detents located at predetermined locations on the retainer-engaging portion of the shaft. 11. The surgical fastener of claim 1 wherein the retainer-engaging portion of the shaft comprises a textured surface. 12. The surgical fastener of claim 1 wherein said upper surface of the base is substantially planar. 13. The surgical fastener of claim 1 further comprises a circumferential groove formed in the base. 14. A method for attaching soft tissues located in the abdominal cavity, chest or retroperitoneal space and for attaching a graft to an artery in these areas with a surgical fastener comprising, providing an instrument having an elongated shaft with a distal end portion for applying a surgical fastener, providing only one needle to a needle holder member and at least one retainer to a retainer holder member at the distal end of the instrument, incising a patient's tissues to create at least one opening into the patient's abdominal cavity, chest or retroperitoneal space, inserting the distal end of the shaft of the instrument through the opening so that the distal end is disposed in the patient, passing the shaft of the needle through a portion of one tissue, graft or artery and through a second tissue, artery or graft, and actuating a closing assembly associated with the retainer holder member to place the retainer on the needle and form a surgical fastener. 15. The method defined in claim 14 wherein the method further comprises releasing the needle from the instrument. 16. The method defined in claim 14 wherein the passing and actuating steps are repeated to apply additional fasteners. 17. The method defined in claim 14 wherein the method further comprises removing an end portion of the needle after a fastener have been applied. 18. The method defined in claim 14 wherein the incising step creates a small incision and wherein the inserting, passing and actuating steps are performed by minimally invasive surgical procedures. 19. The method defined in claim 14 wherein a shaft of the needle is passed through a portion of a graft or artery and through a portion of an artery or graft to form a portion of an artery-to-graft anastomosis. 20. The method defined in claim 14 wherein the artery is selected from the group consisting of the aorta, the coronary arteries, the iliac arteries and the femoral arteries. 21. The method defined in claim 14 wherein the artery is at least about 2 mm diameter or larger. 22. A surgical fastening system, comprising: a needle consisting of a base and a body member, said base comprising an upper surface, a lower surface, and further comprising at least two substantially planar surfaces extending in substantially same direction, said body member having a first end affixed to said base, and a second end opposite said first end, said second end being capable of passing through tissues, or tissue and graft; a retainer comprising a plate comprising resilient material, said plate having an aperture adapted to engage said shaft and having means for securing the retainer at a selectable position on the shaft of the needle without substantially deforming said shaft, said retainer further having a surface that cooperates with the upper surface of the base of the needle to contact and secure between those surface portions of materials together wherein at least one of the portions is tissue; and an instrument having a portion adapted to be slideably received by the at least two substantial planar surfaces of the base of the needle so that the needle may be manipulated to skewer materials without rotation. 23. A surgical fastener system as recited in claim 22, further comprising manual controls for controlling said instrument. 24. A surgical fastener system as recited in claim 22, further comprising automated robotic controls for controlling said instrument. 25. A surgical retainer system for fastening together tissues, or tissue and graft, comprising: a retainer including an aperture; and an instrument, including: a shaft having a proximal and distal end, a needle removably affixed to said distal end, first means in said distal end for articulating said needle to skewer a first tissue or graft, align the first tissue or graft to a desired position with respect to a second tissue or graft, and skewer the second tissue or graft in the desired position with respect to the first tissue or graft, and second means for holding said retainer, said second means capable of moving between a first position where said second means and said retainer are retracted proximally into said shaft to provide a clear line of sight of a surgeon to the first means and needle, and a second position where said second means is capable of positioning said retainer over said needle. 26. A surgical retainer system for fastening together tissues, or tissue and graft, as recited in claim 25, further comprising third means for removing an end portion of said needle. 27. A surgical retainer system for fastening together tissues, or tissue and graft, comprising: a needle including a base, a shaft affixed to said base, said shaft having a retainer-engaging portion, and an end capable of passing through the tissue, or tissue and graft; and a retainer including an aperture for allowing said retainer to fit over said needle onto said retainer-engaging portion; wherein said retainer includes a metallic base, and an elastomeric cap affixed to said base. 28. A surgical instrument for fastening together tissues, or tissue and graft, together, comprising: a shaft including a distal end and a proximal end opposite said distal end; a needle holder in said distal end for holding a needle; first means in said distal end for articulating said needle holder to allow said needle to skewer the tissues, or tissue and graft, and to align the tissues, or tissue and graft with respect to each other; a retainer holder in said distal end for holding a retainer; second means in said distal end for moving said retainer holder between a first position where said retainer holder is retracted proximally to provide a clear line of sight of a surgeon to the needle holder and first means, and a second position where said retainer holder is capable of locating a retainer over a needle held by said needle holder; and controls located remote from said distal end for controlling operation of said first means and said second means. 29. A surgical instrument for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 28, wherein said controls comprise hand-actuated controls. 30. A surgical instrument for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 28, wherein said controls comprise automated robotic controls. 31. A surgical instrument for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 28, further comprising connecting means for connecting said controls to said first and second means. 32. A surgical instrument for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 31, wherein said controls and said connecting means together comprise an automated robotic system for actuating said first means and said second means. 33. A surgical instrument for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 31, further comprising a motor, controlled by said controls, for actuating said connecting means. 34. A surgical instrument for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 31, further comprising pneumatic means, controlled by said controls, for actuating said connecting means. 35. A surgical instrument for fastening tissues, or tissue and graft, together as recited in claim 31, further comprising hydraulic means, controlled by said controls, for actuating said connecting means. 36. A method of fastening together tissues, or tissue and graft, in a surgical procedure, comprising the steps of: (a) skewering the tissues, or tissue and graft, onto a needle having a base in a minimally invasive procedure; (b) positioning a retainer over the needle in a minimally invasive procedure to fasten the tissues, or tissue and graft together between the needle base and retainer; and (c) providing a clear line of sight for a surgeon to the needle during said step (a) by positioning the retainer out of the line of sight. 37. A surgical fastener comprising: a needle including a base, a shaft and a tip, said base having an upper surface, a lower surface, and means for preventing needle rotation when mounted in a needle holder, said shaft extending from said upper surface of the base and having a retainer-engaging portion, and said tip being at an end of said shaft opposite said base and configured to pierce a graft, an artery or other soft tissues, and a retainer comprising a plate comprising resilient material, said plate having an aperture which has means for frictionally engaging said shaft and secure the retainer at a selectable position on the said retainer-engaging portion of the shaft without substantially deforming said shaft, said retainer further having a surface that cooperates with the upper surface of the base of the needle to contact and secure between those surface portions of materials together wherein at least one of the portions is tissue. 