A vehicular window assembly adapted to close an opening in a vehicle body includes a window panel of glass or plastic in the form of a sheet, a primer layer, and at least one polymeric gasket preferably molded to the panel on the primer layer from an olefinic-styrenic copolymer such as an ethylene-styrene copolymer or ethylene-styrene interpolymer. The primer preferably has a transition temperature above which improved adhesion characteristics are exhibited, and the panel and primer are preferably preheated above the transition temperature prior to molding or other application of the gasket. Alternately, the primer can be cross-linkable and is preferably cured after application of the gasket through ambient moisture and/or post heating. The gasket may also be preformed and applied to the window panel with pressure and heat.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are as follows: 1. A vehicle window assembly for closing a window opening in a vehicle, comprising: a panel in the form of a sheet having first and second surfaces terminating in a peripheral edge; a primer layer applied to a predetermined area of said first surface; and at least one polymeric gasket applied to said sheet-like panel on at least a portion of said first surface having said primer layer, said gasket including an olefinic-styrenic copolymer and bonded to said portion of said sheet-like panel, said olefinic-styrenic copolymer comprising a styrene content in the range from about one (1) molar percent to about fifty (50) molar percent. 2. The window assembly of claim 1 wherein said polymeric gasket comprises ethylene-styrene copolymer. 3. The window assembly of claim 2 wherein said ethylene-styrene copolymer has a styrene content of at least about one molar percent. 4. The window assembly of claim 3 wherein said ethylene-styrene copolymer has a styrene content of at least about 5 molar percent. 5. The window assembly of claim 4 wherein said ethylene-styrene copolymer has a styrene content within the range of between about 5 and 35 molar percent. 6. The window assembly of claim 3 wherein said ethylene-styrene copolymer comprises melt-processible resin material produced using metallocene catalysis. 7. The window assembly of claim 1 wherein said assembly further includes a silane coupling agent applied to said sheet-like panel, said primer layer being applied over said silane coupling agent. 8. The window assembly of claim 1 wherein said polymeric gasket includes: a molded body having a first portion in intimate contact with said primer layer; and at least one flange extending from said body for spacing said panel from a mounting surface. 9. The window assembly of claim 1 wherein said primer forming said layer has a transition temperature greater than about 93.degree. C. (200.degree. F.), and said gasket is molded on said primer layer when said primer layer is at a temperature equal to or greater than 93.degree. C. (200.degree. F.). 10. The window assembly of claim 1 including an opaque ceramic coating bonded to said first surface of said panel and receiving said primer layer. 11. The window assembly of claim 1 wherein said primer layer is a cross-linkable material, said primer being cured after application of said gasket by the application of heat to bond the gasket to the window panel. 12. The window assembly of claim 1 including a mechanical fastener at least partially encapsulated within said polymeric gasket and projecting out of said polymeric gasket, said fastener adapted to mechanically assist in retaining said panel assembly in the window opening. 13. The window assembly of claim 1 including an adhesive deposited on at least one of said polymeric gasket and said panel for adhering said window assembly in the window opening. 14. The window assembly of claim 1 including: a second polymeric gasket molded about and encapsulating at least a portion of said peripheral edge of said sheet-like panel, said second gasket having at least a first securing flange extending from said peripheral edge inwardly toward a center of said sheet-like panel and a lip portion which extends away from said peripheral edge. 15. The window assembly of claim 1 wherein said primer forming said layer has a transition temperature; said polymeric gasket being applied to said primer layer on said panel while said primer layer is at a temperature greater than said transition temperature whereby adhesion of said gasket to said panel is improved. 16. The window assembly of claim 7 wherein said primer layer comprises a thermoplastic olefinic polymer. 17. The window assembly of claim 16 wherein said primer layer comprises one of a copolymer, homopolymer, functionalized copolymer and functionalized homopolymer. 18. The window assembly of claim 16 wherein said primer layer comprises one of an ethylene-styrene interpolymer, ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer, ethylene-acrylic acid copolymer, ethylene-vinyl silane copolymer, ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer, ethylene-acrylate copolymer, ethylene-vinyl silane-vinyl acetate terpolymer, ethylene-acrylate-acrylic acid copolymer, ethylene-acrylate-glycidyl methacrylate copolymer, silane grafted polyolefin, maleic anhydride grafted polyolefin, oxidized polyolefin, chlorinated polyolefin, and a polyolefin with any functional group such as carboxylic acid, silane, hydroxy, anhydride, epoxy and halogen. 19. The window assembly of claim 16 wherein said primer layer comprises an ethylene-styrene copolymer. 20. The window assembly of claim 1 wherein said primer layer is a cross-linkable primer. 21. The window assembly of claim 20 wherein said primer layer is one of a functionalized polyolefin, thermoplastic elastomer, ethylene-styrene copolymer, urethane, acrylic, or epoxy. 22. The window assembly of claim 20 wherein said primer layer is cured by at least one of heat curing, ambient curing with cross-linkers, ambient moisture, or combinations thereof. 23. The window assembly of claim 2 wherein said ethylene-styrene copolymer comprises substituted ethylene or styrene moeities. 24. The window assembly of claim 23 wherein said substituted moeities comprise functional groups including polar groups such as hydroxyls, carboxyls, amino groups, acrylate/acrylic groups, functionalized alkyl groups, epoxy groups, vinyl groups, and allyl groups. 25. The window assembly of claim 2 wherein said ethylene-styrene copolymer has a melting temperature of at least about 60.degree. C. 26. The window assembly of claim 2 wherein said ethylene-styrene copolymer has a flexural modulus of less than or equal to about 200 megapascals at a temperature of about 0.degree. C. 27. The window assembly of claim 2 wherein said ethylene-styrene copolymer has a flexural modulus of less than or equal to about 100 megapascals at a temperature of about 0.degree. C. 28. The window assembly of claim 2 wherein said ethylene-styrene copolymer has a flexural modulus of less than or equal to about 50 megapascals at a temperature of about 0.degree. C. 29. The window assembly of claim 1 wherein said polymeric gasket includes a sealing lip extending therealong for engagement with a vehicle body to form a weather seal therebetween. 30. The window assembly of claim 29 wherein said sealing lip extends inwardly toward the vehicle body from a portion of said gasket on said first surface. 31. The window assembly of claim 29 wherein said sealing lip extends outwardly from said assembly adjacent said peripheral edge of said panel. 32. The window assembly of claim 31 wherein said gasket includes an edge portion affixed to said peripheral edge, said lip extending from said edge portion. 