A front end staging method and apparatus is provided to introduce and remove a set of wafers from a vacuum processing system. The system generally comprises a support platform, one or more wafer cassette turntables disposed on the platform, a wafer handler disposed adjacent the turntables, a wafer center finding device and a filter disposed to control particles in the vicinity of the wafers. The wafer cassette turntables are rotatably mounted to the support in the preferred embodiment. The processing system may also include one or more processing chambers, where each processing chamber defines a plurality of isolated processing regions therein. The wafer center finding device may include an optical sensor system including optimal emitters aligned with optical sensors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for introducing wafers into a processing system, comprising: (a) a loadlock chamber having first and second openings and at least one wafer cassette secured therein, the wafer cassette comprising at least two coplanar wafer seats disposed side-by-side; (b) a transfer chamber connected to the first opening in the loadlock chamber; (c) an enclosure connected to the second opening in the loadlock chamber, the enclosure having a base, a top, sidewalls, and a door, the enclosure comprising: (i) two or more wafer cassette turntables disposed in the enclosure and rotatably mounted on a support platform in proximity to the loadlock chamber; and (ii) a wafer handler module mounted on the support platform adjacent the two or more wafer cassette turntables. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an optical sensor system having one or more optical emitters aligned with one or more optical sensors. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the optical sensor system comprises at least three optical emitters aligned with three optical sensors. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the optical sensors and optical emitters are mounted on a support member. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the support member is mounted on the support platform. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the support member is disposed adjacent to the wafer cassette turntables. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the loadlock chamber is disposed adjacent to the support platform. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an exhaust system disposed above the support platform. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the exhaust system comprises a filter. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the wafer handler module includes a wafer mapping device. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the wafer handler module comprises a robot disposed between the two wafer cassette turntables. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the wafer handler module is disposed at least partially below the support platform and at least partially isolated from a wafer transfer region in the enclosure. 13. An apparatus for introducing wafers into a transfer chamber of a processing system, comprising: (a) an enclosure having a base, a top, sidewalls, a door, and an opening; (b) one or more wafer cassette turntables disposed in the enclosure and rotatably mounted on a support platform in the enclosure; (c) a wafer handler module disposed adjacent the wafer cassette turntables; and (d) a loadlock chamber having at least one wafer cassette secured therein, the wafer cassette comprising at least two co-planar wafer seats disposed side-by-side, the load lock chamber having a first opening connecting to the opening in the enclosure and a second opening for connecting to the transfer chamber. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the wafer handler module comprises a robot disposed between at least two wafer cassette turntables. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising an exhaust system disposed above the support platform. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the exhaust system comprises a filter. 17. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the wafer handler module is disposed at least partially below the support platform and at least partially isolated from a wafer transfer region in the enclosure. 