An implementation of sensor-driven run-to-run process control for semiconductor wafer fabrication integrates a robust, automated Fourier transform infrared reflectometer onto a wafer fabrication cluster tool. Cell controller software integrates an adaptive run-to-run controller, process tool recipe upload and download through a SECS port, sensor control, data archiving, and a graphical user interface.
Claims Having thus described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for in-line control of a semiconductor wafer fabrication tool, comprising: a Fourier transform infrared reflectometer for measuring, in a fabrication tool, at least one property of each of a series of semiconductor wafers sequentially processed in the tool; and electronic data processing means operatively connected to said reflectometer for controlling the conditions of processing in the fabrication tool, said data processing means being programmed to perform the functions: (a) store target values for said at least one wafer property that is to be measured; (b) store measured values of said at least one property for a series of wafers processed in sequence in the fabrication tool; (c) compare said measured values to said target value to determine the existence of departures of said measured values from said target value; (d) analyze said departures of values to determine the existence of a trend therein, and to distinguish any such trend from normal statistical variations in the process; (e) relate possible changes of processing conditions in the fabrication tool to resulting changes in the wafer state properties; and (f) based upon the relationship established by said function (e), and said trend of departures of values, as so distinguished, effect such changes in processing conditions as will reduce the departure, from said target value, of said at least one property in wafers subsequently processed in the fabrication tool. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally including calibrating means for calibrating said reflectometer by measuring reflectance from a reference surface, said calibrating means enabling calibration without interruption of processing operations carried out in the fabrication tool. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said data processing means is further programmed to store and utilize historical data based upon measurements made. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said data processing means is programmed to measure properties of epitaxial layers of the wafer. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said measured properties include layer thickness, film/substrate transition width, substrate and layer doping levels, alloy concentrations, and doping profiles. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said data processing means is programmed to measure at least one of oxygen implantation dose and oxygen implantation energy through multilayered analysis of silicon on insulator structures formed by oxygen ion implantation. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said data processing means is programmed to measure the activated carrier concentration level, layer thickness, scattering rate, and morphology of poly-silicon thin films. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said data processing means is programmed to measure depth of trenches by way of interferometry. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said data processing means is programmed to determine the thickness and composition of oxide thin films doped with chemical species, said species being selected from the group consisting of boron, phosphorus, fluorine, nitrogen, and arsenic. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said data processing means is programmed to determine the thickness and composition of a film. 11. A system for semiconductor wafer fabrication, comprising: a wafer fabrication tool constructed for carrying out process operations sequentially on a series of wafers, said fabrication tool including a plurality of chambers for receiving wafers being fabricated, and means for changing the conditions of processing in at least one of said chambers of said tool; a Fourier transform infrared reflectometer for measuring at least one property of each of a series of semiconductor wafers sequentially processed in said fabrication tool, said reflectometer having optics for receiving spectral reflectance from wafers disposed in a chamber of said fabrication tool; and electronic data processing means operatively connected to said reflectometer for controlling the conditions of processing in said one chamber of said fabrication tool, said data processing means being programmed to perform the functions: (a) store target values for said at least one wafer property that is to be measured; (b) store measured values of said at least one property for a series of wafers processed in sequence in said fabrication tool; (c) compare said measured values to said target value to determine the existence of departures of said measured values from said target value; (d) analyze said departures of values to determine the existence of a trend therein, and to distinguish any such trend from normal statistical variations in the process; (e) relate possible changes of processing conditions in said one chamber of said fabrication tool to resulting changes in the wafer state properties; and (f) based upon the relationship established by said function (e), and said trend of departures of values, as so distinguished, effect such changes in processing conditions as will reduce the deviation, from said target value, of said at least one property in wafers subsequently processed in said one chamber of said fabrication tool. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein said reflectometer is physically integrated with said fabrication tool. 13. A cell control method for semiconductor wafer fabrication, comprising the steps: (a) providing a multiplicity of semiconductor wafers for processing; (b) providing a system in accordance with claim 11; (c) storing in said data processing means of said system a target value for said at least one wafer property; (d) operating said fabrication tool for carrying out process operations on each of a first plurality of said wafers, in sequence; (e) operating said data processing means to: (1) store measured values of said at least one property of said wafers; (2) compare said measured values to said target value to determine the existence of departures of said measured values from said target value; (3) analyze said departures of values to determine the existence of a trend therein, and to distinguish any such trend from normal statistical variations in the process; (4) relate possible changes of processing conditions in said one chamber of said fabrication tool to resulting changes in the wafer state properties; and (5) based upon the relationship established between said changes of processing conditions and wafer state properties, and said trend of departures of values, as so distinguished, effect such changes in processing conditions as will reduce the deviation, from said target value, of said at least one property in wafers subsequently processed in said one chamber of said fabrication tool; and (f) operating said fabrication tool, with said changes of processing conditions effected, for carrying out said process operations on each of a further plurality of said wafers, in sequence. 