A method for performing separation assays of biochemical samples includes computing a quality metric based on peak data produced during the separation run. The quality metric is the basis for selecting a subsequent step in the assay, including whether to re-run the separation when the quality metric indicates a low quality separation run. In a preferred embodiment, the quality metric is computed based on a peak resolution metric indicative of the peak resolution of the sample peaks in the data and a signal-to-noise ratio of the data. When a co-migrating standard is included in the separation run, the quality metric is further based on the degree of migration linearity of the reference peaks produced by the standard. The method was reduced to practice in separations to size and sort DNA fragments in high-throughput capillary array electrophoresis separations.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of analyzing a biochemical sample, comprising: in a separation run, separating the sample into its constituent components thereby producing separation data representing detection of a signal indicative of a physical property associated with the components as a function either of time or of distance along a separation path, the separation data having a plurality of sample peaks; separating a co-migrating standard having constituents of known physical properties thereby introducing reference peaks into the separation data; based on the separation data, computing a quality metric indicative of the quality of the separation run including computing a value indicative of the resolution of the sample peaks in the separation data, computing a value indicative of a signal-to-noise ratio in the separation data, and determining a decree of linearity of the reference peaks; and based on the quality metric, either proceeding with a next step in analyzing the sample or repeating the separation run. 2. The method of claim 1 further including: comparing the quality metric against a first threshold value; if the quality metric is less than the first threshold then producing a first indicator; if the quality metric is greater than or equal to the first threshold then comparing the quality metric against a second threshold value; if the quality metric is less than the second threshold then producing a second indicator; and if the quality metric is greater than or equal to the second threshold then producing a third indicator. 3. The method of claim 2 further including repeating the separation run if the first indicator is produced. 4. The method of claim 3 further including manually inspecting the separation data if the second indicator is produced and repeating the separation run based on results from the step of manually inspecting the separation data. 5. The method of claim 4 further including proceeding with the next step in the analysis if the third indicator is produced. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the biochemical sample is a biological monomer selected from the group comprising amino acids, nucleotides and sugars, and biological polymers including DNA, RNA, peptides, and carbohydrates, and wherein the step of separating the sample includes one of electrophoretic separation, column chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography, and isoelectric focusing. 7. A method for analyzing polynucleotides, comprising: making copies of a sample of polynucleotides to produce amplification products; labeling a target sequence in the amplification products; mixing a sizing standard with the amplification products; in a separation run, separating the amplification products including detecting signals indicative of constituents of the amplification products and producing data representing variations in the detected signal as a function either of time or of distance along a separation path, the data including reference peaks indicative of the separation of the sizing standard; computing a quality metric indicative of the quality of the separation run, the quality metric being a function of the data, the step of computing including computing a resolution of peak values in the data, computing a signal-to-noise ratio of the data, and computing a degree of migration linearity of the reference peaks; and based on the value of the quality metric, producing a first indicator if the quality metric is less than a first threshold and producing a second indicator if the quality metric is greater than the first threshold and less than a second threshold. 8. The method of claim 7 further including repeating the separation run when the first indicator is produced, and manually evaluating the data when the second indicator is produced to determine whether to repeat the separation run. 9. The method of claim 7 further including producing a third indicator if the quality metric is greater than the second threshold. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the polynucleotides constitute genetic material; the method further including identifying alleles from the data when the third indicator is produced. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of separating is either capillary electrophoretic separation or capillary array electrophoretic separation, and wherein the data is an electropherogram profile. 12. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of separating includes slab-gel electrophoretic separation, and wherein the data is obtained from a gel image. 13. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of amplifying is a step of amplifying by polymerase chain reaction. 14. A method for a separation assay of genetic material, comprising the steps of: amplifying and labeling the genetic material to produce amplification products; mixing a sizing standard with the amplification products; in a separation run, electrophoretically separating the amplification products and the sizing standard to separate out constituent components thereof; detecting a signal indicative of the constituent components and producing separation data representing variations in the detected signal versus time, the separation data including peak values which correspond to sizes of the constituent components; computing a quality metric indicative of the quality of the separation run, including computing a resolution of the peak values, computing a signal-to-noise ratio of the separation data, and computing a degree of migration linearity of those peaks which correspond to constituent components of the sizing standard; and based on the value of the quality metric (i) proceeding with a next step of the analysis, (ii) manually evaluating the separation data to determine whether to repeat the separation run, or (iii) repeating the separation run. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the next step is a step of identifying alleles from the separation data. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein if the quality metric falls within a first range of values then repeating the separation run. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein if the quality metric falls within a second range of values then manually evaluating the separation data to determine whether to repeat the separation run. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein if the quality metric falls within a third range of values then identifying alleles from the separation data. 19. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of separating includes one of slab-gel electrophoretic separation, capillary electrophoretic separation, and capillary array electrophoretic separation, and wherein the separation data is an electropherogram profile. 20. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of amplifying is a step of amplifying the selected portion of the genetic material by polymerase chain reaction. 21. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of amplifying is a step of cloning the selected portion of the genetic material. 