A self-sensing wafer holder in a robot blade is described which includes a holder body of generally elongated shape adapted for carrying a wafer on a top surface and at least three sensors positioned on the holder body sufficiently away from each other to form a plane that is covered by the wafer. The at least three sensors can be of the capacitive type, the optical type or the weight sensing type. The wafer holder is capable of determining whether a wafer is properly seated on top of the holder and automatically stopping the motion of the robot blade when a misplacement is detected by utilizing a sensing circuit including logic gates.
Claims The embodiment of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A self-sensing wafer holder comprising: a holder body of generally elongated shape adapted for carrying a wafer on a top surface, said body having at least one dimension larger than a diameter of said wafer adapted for carrying, at least three sensors positioned on said holder body sufficiently away from each other for forming a plane that is covered and contacted by said wafer when said wafer is carried by said holder body, said sensors being capable of sensing whether there is an object placed on top, and a sensing circuit for determining the presence or absence of a wafer positioned on top of said at least three sensors, said sensing circuit further comprises three comparators and each connected to one of said sensors, two AND logic gates and one OR logic gate. 2. A self-sensing wafer holder according to claim 1, wherein said sensing circuit is adapted for outputting a signal to stop the motion of the wafer holder when the misplacement of a wafer positioned on top of said at least three sensors is detected. 3. A self-sensing wafer holder according to claim 1, wherein said at least three sensors are selected from the group consisting of capacitive sensors, optical sensors and weight sensors. 4. A self-sensing wafer holder according to claim 1, wherein said at least three sensors are capacitive sensors. 5. A self-sensing wafer holder according to claim 1, wherein said at least one dimension larger than a diameter of said wafer is a longitudinal dimension of a holder body of rectangular shape. 6. A self-sensing wafer holder according to claim 1, wherein said at least three sensors are positioned on said holder body in such a way that the sensors are at least partially covered by said wafer when said wafer is carried on said holder body. 7. A self-sensing wafer holder adapted for transporting wafers comprising: a holder body of generally elongated shape adapted for carrying a wafer on a top surface, said body having at least one dimension larger than a diameter of the wafer that it is designed for carrying, at least three sensors positioned on said holder body sufficiently away from each other with at least two of said sensors at least partially covered and contacted by one edge of said wafer and at least one of said sensors at least partially covered and contacted by an opposite edge of said wafer when said wafer is carried on said holder body, said sensors are adapted for determining whether there is an object placed on top and then outputting a first signal from each of said at least three sensors, and a sensing circuit for receiving said first signal from each of said at least three sensors and for determining whether there is a wafer placed on top of said holder body, said sensing circuit further comprises three comparators each in electrical communication with one of said sensors, two AND logic gates and one OR logic gate. 8. A self-sensing wafer holder adapted for transporting wafers according to claim 7, wherein said sensing circuit further comprising means for outputting a signal for stopping the motion of said wafer holder when the absence of a wafer positioned on top of said at least three sensors is detected. 9. A self-sensing wafer holder adapted for transporting wafers according to claim 7 further comprising a sensing circuit for determining the presence or the absence of a wafer positioned on top of said at least three sensors. 10. A self-sensing wafer holder adapted for transporting wafers according to claim 8, wherein said at least three sensors are selected from the group consisting of capacitive sensors, optical sensors and weight sensors. 11. A self-sensing wafer holder adapted for transporting wafers according to claim 7, wherein said at least three sensors are capacitive sensors. 12. A method for transporting a wafer on a self-sensing wafer holder comprising the steps of: providing a holder body of generally elongated shape adapted for receiving a wafer on a top surface, said body having at least one dimension larger than a diameter of said wafer it is adapted for carrying, said holder body further comprising at least three sensors positioned on said holder body sufficiently away from each other with at least two of said sensors at least partially covered and contacted by one edge of said wafer and at least one of said sensors at least partially covered and contacted by an opposite edge of said wafer when said wafer is carried by said holder body, said sensors are adapted for determining whether there is an object placed on top and then outputting a first signal from each of said at least three sensors, positioning a wafer on a top surface of said holder body for transporting, and stopping a motion of said wafer holder when a sensing circuit receives a first signal from at least one of said at least three sensors and determines a status of misplacement of a wafer on top of said holder body, said sensing circuit comprises three comparators each connected to one of three sensors, two AND logic gates and one OR logic gate. 13. A method for transporting a wafer on a self-sensing wafer holder according to claim 12 further comprising the step of determining the presence or absence of a wafer positioned on top of said at least three sensors by said sensing circuit. 14. A method for transporting a wafer on a self-sensing wafer holder according to claim 12 further comprising the step of outputting a signal from said sensing circuit to stop the motion of said wafer holder when the absence of a wafer positioned on top of said at least three sensors is detected. 15. A method for transporting a wafer on a self-sensing wafer holder according to claim 12, wherein said at least three sensors are selected from the group consisting of capacitive sensors, optical sensors and weight sensors. 