A flexible parts feeder includes a flexible membrane for supporting parts and defining a selection zone where the positional state of parts is analyzed by a machine vision system. The output of the sensor is used to control a transformer that selectively applies impulse energy to the flexible membrane so as to change the positional states of at least some parts in the selection zone to a desired positional state. Those parts having the desired positional state are selected and removed from the membrane by a robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A parts feeding system, comprising: a support having a flexible surface for supporting parts; a machine vision system that detects at least one positional parameter defining the positional state of parts on said flexible surface; and a transformer responsive to said machine vision system that applies impulse energy to the support flexible surface so as to selectively change the positional state of at least one part on said flexible surface. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said transformer applies at least one energy impulse of selected magnitude at at least one selected location of said flexible surface responsive to the detected at least one positional parameter to relocate and/or reorient at least one part on said flexible surface. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said transformer applies at least one of said energy impulses responsive to the detected location and orientation of a detected singulated part to transform the orientation of said singulated part to a desired orientation. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said transformer is movable relative to said flexible surface. 5. The system of claim 4, further comprising a controller responsive to said machine vision system for moving said transformer relative to said flexible surface. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said transformer comprises at least one hammer movable into and out of contact with said flexible surface for applying a predetermined level of impulse energy to said flexible surface. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said transformer comprises an array of plural said hammers. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said array of hammers is movable in an xy-plane relative to said flexible surface. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein said array of hammers is stationary relative to said flexible surface. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said transformer further comprises means for localizing the impulse energy applied to said flexible surface by said transformer. 11. The system of claim 7, wherein each of said hammers is independently controllable to selectively apply impulse energy to said flexible surface. 12. The system of claim 6, wherein said transformer further comprises a suction member controllable to apply a vacuum zone to said flexible surface around said at least one hammer so as to localize the impulse energy applied by said transformer to said flexible surface. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein said machine vision system compares the detected orientation of a selected part with a predetermined orientation, and said transformer applies an energy impulse to said flexible surface based on the energy required to reorient the selected part from the detected orientation to the predetermined orientation. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein said machine vision system detects the relationship of parts relative to each other on said flexible surface, and said transformer applies at least one energy impulse to said flexible surface responsive to said detected parts relationship so as to separate tangled or clustered parts. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein a framed, substantially planar, tensioned, flexible membrane provides said flexible surface. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the membrane has a textured surface. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the textured surface has an asymmetrical pattern. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein the membrane comprises a tensioned bottom layer and an untensioned top layer on the bottom layer. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein said flexible surface comprises a plurality of different selection zones, each selection zone being sensed separately by said machine vision system. 20. The system of claim 15, wherein said support comprises a table and a tray providing said flexible membrane, said tray being removably mounted to said table. 21. The system of claim 20, further comprising a tray magazine for containing a plurality of said trays, said tray magazine supplying selected trays to said support table and receiving trays removed from said support table. 22. The system of claim 1, further comprising a parts dispenser for supplying parts to said support. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein said parts dispenser is controlled responsive to said machine vision system so as to supply a predetermined number of parts to said support. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein said parts dispenser is controlled to resupply said support in dependence on the total number of parts and/or the number of parts in a predetermined state sensed by said machine vision system. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein said predetermined state corresponds to a singulated part in a desired orientation for selection. 26. The system of claim 1, further comprising a selector for removing from said support parts having a predetermined orientation as detected by said machine vision system. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein said transformer includes a controller for operating said transformer in a plurality of modes, including a first mode for applying an amplitude-controlled impulse of energy to said flexible surface based on the detected positional state of at least one part by said machine vision system. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein said controller operates said transformer in a second mode for applying impulse energy to said flexible surface at a predetermined frequency while said transformer moves relative to said flexible surface. 29. The system of claim 27, wherein the controller operates the transformer in a third mode for vibrating said flexible surface at a predetermined frequency while said transformer moves along a path relative to said flexible surface. 30. The system of claim 27, wherein the controller operates the transformer in a fourth mode for applying impulse energy to said flexible surface at a location corresponding to the center between at least two parts on said flexible surface sensed by said machine vision system to be touching. 31. A method for controlling the positional state of parts in a selection zone for removal by a selection mechanism, comprising: supporting the parts in a selection zone with a flexible membrane; detecting at least one positional parameter defining the positional state of at least one part in the selection zone; selectively applying impulse energy to said flexible membrane responsive to the detected at least one positional parameter so as to selectively change the positional state of at least one part in said selection zone to a predetermined selection state. 32. The method of claim 31, further comprising he step of removing those parts in said selection zone hat are detected as being in said selection state. 33. The method of claim 31, wherein the positional state of parts is effected without recirculation of parts through said selection zone. 34. The method of claim 31, wherein impulse energy is applied to the flexible membrane by a hammer movable into and out of contact with the flexible membrane. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the hammer is moved in a plane parallel to the flexible membrane based on the detected at least one positional parameter. 36. The method of claim 31, wherein said applying step applies at least one energy impulse of selected magnitude at at least one selected location of said flexible membrane responsive to the detected at least one positional parameter to relocate and/or reorient at least one part on said flexible membrane. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein said at least one energy impulse is applied responsive to the detected location and orientation of a detected singulated part to transform the orientation of said singulated part to a desired orientation. 38. The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of localizing the impulse energy applied to said flexible membrane. 39. The method of claim 31, wherein the detecting step compares the detected orientation of a selected part with a predetermined orientation, and said impulse energy is applied to said flexible membrane based on the energy required to reorient the selected part from the detected orientation to the predetermined orientation. 40. The method of claim 31, wherein said detecting step detects the relationship of parts relative to each other on said flexible membrane and applies at least one energy impulse to said flexible membrane responsive to said detected parts relationship so as to separate tangled or clustered parts. 41. The method of claim 31, further comprising supplying parts to said support in dependence on the total number of parts and/or the number of parts in a predetermined state as detected in the detecting step. 42. The method of claim 31, wherein said predetermined selection state corresponds to a singulated part in a desired orientation for selection. 