A device for mechanically picking and palletizing rectangular objects of various sizes for attachment to a robotic arm. The device includes a pair of rails having a plurality of longitudinally spaced, elongated L-shaped grips extending there through. The distance between the respective rails can be adjusted to accommodate various width containers. The L-shaped grips are capable of pivotal rotation such that their grip ends rotate under the object for picking and palletizing. A pair of pallet hooks having suction cups attached thereto is also provided on the device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for grasping, transporting and palletizing a container having opposed side walls and opposed bottom edges, the apparatus comprising: a pair of parallel rails spaced at a predetermined distance from one another and laterally movable with respect to one another; a rotatable link positioned between said parallel rails; first and second tie rods, each said tie rod pivotally secured to one rail and to the rotatable link; a plurality of longitudinally spaced apertures being formed along each rail; a plurality of L-shaped rotating fingers, each rotating finger being received in an aperture; and each rotating finger being rotatably movable and coupled to at least one adjacent rotating finger along each rail. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of gears, each gear being attached to a rotating finger; said gears being in frictional contact for simultaneous rotative movement of the rotating fingers along each rail. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of gears, each gear being attached to a rotating finger; said gears being in contact for simultaneous rotative movement of the rotating fingers along each rail. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: at least one rotating finger rotating mechanism having a fixed end and a moving end; a connecting link having a first end and a second end; the fixed end being attached to one rail; the moving end being pivotally attached to the first end of the connecting link; the second end of the connecting link being attached to one rotating finger. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said rotating finger rotating mechanism is a linear actuator. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: at least one rail width adjusting mechanism having a fixed end and a working end; the fixed end being attached to one rail; the working end attached to the other rail. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: at least two pallet hooks, each said pallet hook being pivotally connected to one of each said rails. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a suction cup, said suction cup being attached to one of said pallet hooks. 9. A robotic end-effector for an industrial robot, said robotic end-effector comprising: a frame capable of being coupled to the robot, the frame including at least one linear bearing attached thereto; a pair of rails arranged for respective lateral movement on said linear bearing; a plurality of longitudinally spaced apertures formed in each rail; a plurality of longitudinally spaced, elongated L-shaped rotating fingers extending through said apertures, each rotating finger having a top portion; and a gear being attached to each rotating finger top portion, said gears meshing with one another for simultaneous rotative movement of the rotating fingers along each rail. 10. A zoning mechanism for interrupting the transportation of a group of containers supported by the rotating fingers of claim 9 wherein said mechanism includes at least one of said gears having an interrupted periphery. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising: at least two rotating finger rotating mechanisms, each mechanism having a fixed end and a moving end; at least two connecting links, each connecting link having a first end and a second end; the fixed ends being attached to one rail; the moving ends being pivotally attached to the first ends of the connecting links; the second ends of the connecting links being attached to at least two rotating fingers. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said rotating finger rotating mechanisms are linear actuators. 13. A zoning mechanism for interrupting the transportation of a group of containers supported by the rotating fingers of claim 9 wherein said mechanism includes at least one of said gears being in non-meshing contact with at least one other gear. 14. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: at least one rotating finger rotating mechanism having a fixed end and a moving end; a connecting link having a first end and a second end; the fixed end being attached to one rail; the moving end being pivotally attached to the first end of the connecting link; the second end of the connecting link being attached to one rotating finger. 15. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: at least one rail width adjusting mechanism having a fixed end and a working end; the fixed end being attached to one rail; the working end attached to the other rail. 16. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising: at least two pallet hooks, each said pallet hook being pivotally connected to one of each said rails. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising a suction cup, said suction cup being attached to one of said pallet hooks. 18. A system for gripping, transferring and palletizing containers lacking structural integrity from an pick up position, said system comprising: a supply of pallets; an industrial robot with an end-effector, said end-effector having a pair of parallel rails arranged for lateral movement with respect to one another, means for providing lateral movement of said rails, a plurality of rotatable L-shaped rotating finger extending longitudinally from said rails, means for providing rotational motion of said rotating fingers, a pair of pallet hooks pivotally extendable from said rails, and means for providing pivotal motion of said pallet hooks; and a palletizing station adjacent said pick up position. 19. The system of claim 18 further comprising at least one suction cup secured to one of said pallet hooks; means for providing a vacuum to said suction cup; and a supply of cardboard sheets. 