A method of removing liquid on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of placing the substrate in a fluid reservoir having a surface level, maintaining a partial pressure of vapor over the fluid surface level, lowering the fluid surface level of the reservoir while adding fluid, whereby the liquid flows off the substrate, and holding the substrate at different holding points, while lowering the fluid surface level so that the lowering surface level does not pass across a holding point that is being used to hold the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of removing liquid on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) immersing the substrate in a fluid having a surface level; (b) maintaining a partial pressure of vapor over the fluid surface level; (c) lowering the fluid surface level of the reservoir while adding fluid, whereby the liquid flows off the substrate; and (d) holding the substrate at different holding points, while lowering the fluid surface level so that the lowering surface level does not pass across a holding point that is being used to hold the substrate. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of holding the substrate at different holding points comprises holding the substrate at different holding points that are selected in relation to the position of the fluid surface level. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of holding the substrate at different holding points comprises holding the substrate at first holding points while the fluid surface level is lowered through a first range of levels, and holding the substrate at second holding points while the fluid surface level is lowered through a second range of levels. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein step (b) comprises the step of moving a vapor inlet or vapor exhaust in relation to the lowering fluid surface level, the vapor inlet having inlet ports for introducing the vapor over the fluid surface level, and the vapor exhaust having exhaust ports for exhausting the vapor. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein step (b) comprises the step of floating the vapor inlet or vapor exhaust on the fluid surface level. 6. A method of removing liquid on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing the substrate in a fluid reservoir having a fluid surface level; (b) maintaining a partial pressure of vapor over the fluid surface level while adding fluid; (c) in a first stage, lowering the fluid surface level of the reservoir through a first range of levels while holding the substrate at first holding points; and (d) in at least one second stage, lowering the fluid surface level of the reservoir through a second range of levels while holding the substrate at second holding points, whereby the liquid flows off the substrate. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein in the first stage, the first holding points comprise holding points positioned outside the first range of levels, and where in the second stage, the second holding points comprise holding points outside the second range of levels. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the first and second holding points each comprise at least three holding points. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein step (b) comprises moving a vapor inlet or vapor exhaust in relation to the lowering fluid surface level, the vapor inlet having inlet ports for introducing the vapor over the fluid surface level, and the vapor exhaust having exhaust ports for exhausting the vapor. 10. The method of claim 9 comprising the step of floating the vapor inlet or vapor exhaust on the fluid surface level. 11. A method of removing liquid on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing the substrate in a fluid reservoir having a fluid surface level; (b) maintaining a partial pressure of vapor over the fluid surface level by introducing vapor through a vapor inlet port that moves in relation to the fluid surface level, while adding fluid; and (c) lowering the fluid surface level of the reservoir, whereby the liquid flows off the substrate. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein step (b) further comprises the step of exhausting vapor over the fluid surface level through a vapor exhaust port that moves in relation to the fluid surface level. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein step (b) comprises the step of floating the vapor inlet port and vapor exhaust port on the fluid surface level. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein step (c) comprises the step of draining the fluid. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein step (c) comprises the step of holding the substrate at different holding points while lowering the fluid surface level so that the fluid surface level does not intersect a holding point on the substrate. 16. A method of removing liquid on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing the substrate in fluid having a surface level; (b) maintaining a partial pressure of vapor in an enclosed vapor zone over the fluid surface level; (c) lowering the fluid surface level relative to the substrate, whereby the liquid flows off the substrate; and (d) holding the substrate at different holding points, while lowering the fluid surface level so that the fluid surface level does not pass across a holding point that is being used to hold the substrate. 17. The method of claim 16 comprising the step of holding the substrate at different holding points that are selected in relation to the position of the fluid surface level. 18. The method of claim 16 comprising the step of holding the substrate at first holding points while the fluid surface level is lowered through a first range of levels, and holding the substrate at second holding points while the fluid surface level is lowered through a second range of levels. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein step (b) comprises the step of moving a vapor inlet or vapor exhaust in relation to the fluid surface level being lowered, the vapor inlet having inlet ports for introducing the vapor over the fluid surface level, and the vapor exhaust having exhaust ports for exhausting the vapor. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein step (b) comprises the step of floating the vapor inlet or vapor exhaust on the fluid surface level. 21. A method of removing liquid on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing the substrate in fluid having a fluid surface level; (b) maintaining a partial pressure of vapor in an enclosed vapor zone over the fluid surface level; (c) in a first stage, lowering the fluid surface level relative to the substrate through a first range of levels while holding the substrate at first holding points; and (d) in at least one second stage, lowering the fluid surface level through a second range of levels while holding the substrate at second holding points, whereby the liquid flows off the substrate. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein in the first stage, the first holding points comprise holding points positioned outside the first range of levels, and where in the second stage, the second holding points comprise holding points outside the second range of levels. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the first and second holding points each comprise at least three holding points. 24. The method of claim 21 wherein step (b) comprises moving a vapor inlet or vapor exhaust in relation to the lowering fluid surface level, the vapor inlet having inlet ports for introducing the vapor over the fluid surface level, and the vapor exhaust having exhaust ports for exhausting the vapor. 25. The method of claim 24 comprising the step of floating the vapor inlet or vapor exhaust on the fluid surface level. 26. A method of removing liquid on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing the substrate in fluid having a fluid surface level; (b) maintaining a partial pressure of vapor in an enclosed vapor zone over the fluid surface level by introducing vapor through a vapor inlet port that moves in relation to the fluid surface level; and (c) lowering the fluid surface level relative to the substrate, whereby the liquid flows off the substrate. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein step (b) further comprises the step of exhausting vapor over the fluid surface level through a vapor exhaust port that moves in relation to the fluid surface level. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein step (b) comprises the step of floating the vapor inlet port and vapor exhaust port on the fluid surface level. 29. The method of claim 26 wherein step (c) comprises the step of draining the fluid. 30. The method of claim 26 wherein step (c) comprises the step of holding the substrate at different holding points while lowering the fluid surface level so that the fluid surface level does not intersect a holding point on the substrate. 31. A method of removing liquid on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing the substrate in fluid having a fluid surface level; (b) maintaining a partial pressure of vapor in an enclosed vapor zone over the fluid surface level; and (c) lowering the fluid surface level relative to the substrate to remove the liquid on the substrate surface. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein the fluid surface level is lowered while the substrate is held at different points. 33. The method of claim 31 further comprising the step of moving a vapor inlet or vapor exhaust in relation to the fluid surface level being lowered, the vapor inlet having an inlet port for introducing the vapor over the fluid surface level, and the vapor exhaust having an exhaust port for exhausting the vapor. 34. The method of claim 33 comprising the step of floating the vapor inlet or vapor exhaust on the fluid surface level. 35. A method of removing liquid on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing the substrate in fluid having a surface level; (b) lowering the fluid surface level relative to the substrate, whereby the liquid flows off the substrate; and (c) holding the substrate at different holding points, while lowering the fluid surface level so that the lowering surface level does not pass across a holding point that is being used to hold the substrate, wherein the substrate is held at at least three spaced points throughout the step of powering the fluid surface level relative to the substrate. 36. A method of removing liquid on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing the substrate in fluid having a surface level; (b) lowering the fluid surface level relative to the substrate, whereby the liquid flows off the substrate; and (c) holding the substrate at different holding points, while lowering the fluid surface level so that the lowering surface level does not pass across a holding point that is being used to hold the substrate, wherein the substrate has an upper half and a lower half and wherein at least one holding point is on the upper half of the substrate. 37. A method of removing liquid on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing the substrate in fluid having a surface level; (b) lowering the fluid surface level relative to the substrate, whereby the liquid flows off the substrate; and (c) holding the substrate at different holding points, while lowering the fluid surface level so that the lowering surface level does not pass across a holding point that is being used to hold the substrate, wherein the holding points are held by respective holding surfaces and wherein each holding point and respective holding surface pass across the surface level at substantially the same time. 38. A method of removing liquid on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing the substrate in a fluid reservoir having a fluid surface level; (b) maintaining a partial pressure of vapor over the fluid surface level by introducing vapor through a vapor inlet port that moves in relation to the fluid surface level; (c) lowering the fluid surface level of the reservoir, whereby the liquid flows off the substrate; and (d) moving the vapor port in relation to the fluid surface level of the reservoir. 39. The method of claim 38 wherein step (b) further comprises the step of exhausting vapor over the fluid surface level through a vapor exhaust port that moves in relation to the fluid surface level. 40. The method of claim 39 wherein step (b) comprises the step of floating the vapor inlet port and vapor exhaust port on the fluid surface level. 41. The method of claim 38 wherein step (c) comprises the step of draining the fluid. 42. The method of claim 38 wherein step (c) comprises the step of holding the substrate at different holding points while lowering the fluid surface level so that the fluid surface level does not intersect a holding point on the substrate. 