A disk drive system includes a base, a disk stack rotatably attached to the base, and an actuator assembly movably attached to the base. A ramp assembly includes a set of ramps for loading and unloading the transducing elements to and from the disks in the disk stack. The ramp assembly is attached to the base. The ramp assembly has a series of fixed ramps which are attached to a rigid structure. The ramps have four degrees of freedom which allow for adjustability in the formation of the ramp so that the E-block or actuator formed from separate parts can move with respect to the disks and with respect to the ramps without excessive interference to load or unload the sliders which carry the transducers with respect to the disk. Each individual ramp unit is an integral part. The individual ramp units are positioned with respect to a rigid structure and then fixed into the proper position by either laser ablation, rod melt approaches, adhesives or attachment with mechanical fasteners. The individual ramp units can be properly mated with the disk stack and then finely adjusted before fixing the individual ramp units to the rigid structure. The rigid structure is a post attached to the base or housing of the disk drive. A jig or robotic fingers can be used to hold all the individual ramp units with respect to the post during assembly. A vision system can be used in conjunction with a robot to move the individual ramp units with respect to the post.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A magnetic disk drive comprising: a transducer; a disk; an arm for carrying said transducer in transducing relation with respect to said disk; a ramp structure for loading and unloading the arm and transducer from said disk, said ramp structure including individual ramp units; and means for providing several degrees of freedom to adjust the individual ramp units. 2. The magnetic disk drive of claim 1 further comprising: a rigid structure; and means for affixing the individual ramp units to the rigid structure. 3. A magnetic disk drive comprising: a transducer; a disk; an arm; a load spring attached to said arm, said load spring and arm carrying said transducer in transducing relation with respect to said disk; a ramp structure for loading and unloading the arm, said ramp having several degrees of freedom to adjust after the load spring is moved to a park position atop said ramp. 4. The magnetic disk drive of claim 3 wherein the ramp structure further comprises: a post; and an individual ramp unit having an opening therein, said opening of sufficient size to receive said post. 5. The magnetic disk drive of claim 4 wherein the post has a circular cross section. 6. The magnetic disk drive of claim 4 wherein the post has a rectangular cross section. 7. The magnetic disk drive of claim 4 wherein the post has features which limit the adjustability of the individual ramp unit with respect to the post. 8. A magnetic disk drive comprising: a transducer; a disk; an arm; a load spring attached to said arm, said load spring and ann carrying said transducer in transducing relation with respect to said disk; a ramp structure for loading and unloading the arm, said ramp being adjustable after the load spring is moved to a park position atop said ramp, said ramp including a post; and an individual ramp unit having an opening therein, said opening of sufficient size to receive said post, said post including a first section with a first diameter for receiving a first set of individual ramp units; and a second section with a second diameter for receiving a second set of individual ramp units. 9. A ramp structure for a disk drive having a multiple disk stack, comprising: a post; and an individual ramp unit having an opening therein for receiving said post, said individual ramp unit having several degrees of freedom to adjust with respect to said post. 10. The ramp structure of claim 9 wherein the post is a rigid structure. 11. The ramp structure of claim 9 wherein the post is a meltable structure for fastening the individual ramp unit to said post. 12. The ramp structure of claim 9 further comprising a fastener for fastening the individual ramp unit to said post. 13. An information handling system comprising: a base; a disk rotatably attached to said base; and an actuator assembly movably attached to said base said actuator assembly further comprising a transducer attached to said actuator, said actuator moving the transducer between a transducing position and a park position; and a ramp structure attached to said base, said ramp structure further comprising: a post; and an individual ramp unit having an opening therein for receiving said post, said individual ramp having several degrees of freedom to adjust with respect to said post. 14. The information handling system of claim 13 further comprising a fastener for fastening the individual ramp unit to said post. 15. A method for assembling a disk drive having a multiple disk stack and a ramp structure having a post and individual ramp units, said assembly method comprising in order the steps of: adjusting the individual adjustable ramp units to a selected position with respect to the post; and affixing the individual ramp units to the post. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the step of adjusting the individual ramp units to selected position with respect to the post further comprises the step of adjusting the individual ramp units by referencing a disk in the disk stack. 17. A method for assembling a disk drive having a multiple disk stack and a ramp structure having a post and individual ramp units said assembly method comprising the steps of: attaching a robotic system to the individual ramp unit; moving the individual ramp unit using a servo system associated with the robotic system; and affixing the individual ramp units to the post. 18. A method for assembling a disk drive having a multiple disk stack and a ramp structure having a post and individual ramp units, said assembly method comprising the steps of: attaching a robotic system to the individual ramp unit; moving the individual ramp unit using a servo system associated with the robotic system; providing feedback to said servo system with a vision system; and affixing the individual ramp units to the post. 19. A method for assembling a disk drive having a multiple disk stack and a ramp structure having a post and individual ramp units, said assembly method comprising the steps of: directing a laser at the junction between the post and the individual ramp unit; and affixing the individual ramp units to the post. 20. A method for assembling a disk drive having a multiple disk stack and a ramp structure having a post and individual ramp units, said assembly method comprising the steps of: dispensing an adhesive to the junction between the post and the individual ramp unit; and affixing the individual ramp units to the post. 