A method and apparatus for aspirating and dispensing a sample fluid. The apparatus includes a dilutor having a port coupled to a first port of a flow through pressure transducer and to a bleed valve. A second port of the flow through pressure transducer is coupled to a first port of a sample probe. The flow through pressure transducer provides transducer signals to a detector circuit. In response to the transducer signals provided thereto, the detector detects the occurrence or non-occurrence of a plurality of different events. The dilutor is operational to aspirate and dispense fluids such as air or liquid samples in order to provide accurate aspiration and dispensation of a sample fluid. The method includes the steps of first aspirating a predetermined amount of air with the dilutor, dispensing air while moving the sample probe towards the fluid sample, measuring the pressure in the probe and using this pressure value as a baseline, monitoring the pressure and detecting when the pressure changes, which is indicative of the probe entering the fluid sample, bleeding the pressure into the atmosphere while returning the dilutor to its home position, aspirating a predetermined amount of fluid to remove dilutor backlash, waiting a predetermined amount of time to finish bleeding the system, then aspirating the fluid sample with the dilutor. With such a method and apparatus, accurate aspirations/dispensations are provided, especially when small volumes are required.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for aspirating and dispensing a sample fluid comprising: a dilutor having a port; a bleed valve having a first port and a second port; a flow through pressure transducer, having a first port and a second port, said transducer operative to provide a pressure signal; a connecting member having a first port, a second port, and a third port in mutual fluid communication, wherein the first port is coupled to the port of said dilutor, the second port is coupled to the first port of said bleed valve, and the third port is coupled to the first port of said flow through pressure transducer; a sample probe having a first port coupled to the second port of said flow through pressure transducer; and a controller in communication with said dilutor, said bleed valve, and said flow through pressure transducer, said controller operative to control said dilutor and said bleed valve in response to said pressure signal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said flow through pressure transducer comprises a pair of electrical output terminals, and wherein said flow through pressure transducer is operative to provide said pressure signal as a differential output signal on said pair of electrical output terminals in response to pressure changes in a fluid path between said sample probe and said connecting member. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said controller comprises a microprocessor. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a detector circuit for receiving said pressure signal from said flow through pressure transducer and for providing said controller with a signal reflecting one of a plurality of conditions represented by the pressure in said flow through pressure transducer. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said detector circuit comprises: an amplifier circuit having a first terminal coupled to said flow through pressure transducer and having a second terminal; a signal conditioning circuit having a first terminal coupled to the second terminal of said amplifier circuit and having a second terminal coupled to at least one of: (a) a fluid level detector circuit; (b) an aspirate integrity circuit; (c) a clot detector circuit; and (d) a tip detector circuit, each of which having a nominal state signal set therein by said signal conditioning circuit under operation of said controller. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said signal conditioning circuit comprises: a first inverting amplifier having a negative input terminal coupled to the first terminal of said signal conditioning circuit, having a positive input terminal and having an output terminal; a second inverting amplifier having a negative input terminal coupled to the output terminal of said first inverting amplifier, having a positive input terminal coupled to ground and having an output terminal; and a sample and hold circuit having an input terminal coupled to the output terminal of said second inverting amplifier, having an output terminal coupled to the positive input terminal of said first inverting amplifier and having a control terminal, wherein said controller is coupled to the control terminal of said sample and hold circuit. 7. A method for aspirating and dispensing a sample fluid comprising the steps of: aspirating a first volume of air with a dilutor; dispensing with the dilutor at least a portion of said first volume of air through a sample probe in fluid communication with the dilutor while moving the sample probe towards a target sample fluid volume; measuring the pressure in the sample probe using a transducer; storing a value of the measured pressure in a detection circuit; monitoring the pressure in the sample probe using said transducer; detecting, with said detection circuit, a pressure increase as the sample probe enters the sample fluid volume; comparing, using the detection circuit, the difference between the stored pressure value and the currently monitored pressure to a threshold value to determine the detection of the sample fluid; stopping movement of the sample probe upon detection of the pressure increase as the sample probe enters the sample fluid; bleeding pressurized air from the sample probe while returning the dilutor to a home position; aspirating a second volume of air with the dilutor; waiting a predetermined period of time; and aspirating said sample fluid with the dilutor. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of aspirating a first volume of air comprises aspirating through a bleed valve in fluid communication with the dilutor. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of aspirating a first volume of air comprises aspirating approximately fifty microliters of air. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein said step of dispensing further comprises dispensing at a rate of approximately thirty-seven and one-half microliters per second. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of bleeding further comprises bleeding through a bleed valve in fluid communication with the sample probe and the dilutor. 12. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of aspirating a second volume of air comprises aspirating through a bleed valve in fluid communication with the dilutor. 13. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of aspirating a second volume of air comprises aspirating approximately two microliters of air. 14. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of waiting a predetermined period of time comprises waiting approximately two-hundred milliseconds. 