A protective wrapping for a vehicle seat includes a separate protective wrapping for the backrest cushion and a separate protective wrapping for the seat cushion. The backrest cushion wrapping includes a protective bag that loosely encloses the backrest cushion from above on all sides the backrest cushion to the level of the seat surface. By means of a closing tongue that reaches around the backrest underside from the front to the rear, the protective bag is fixed on the backrest cushion. The seat cushion wrapping includes a protective hood that encloses the seat cushion from above on all sides. The sides are gathered in a circular manner, particularly shrunk, below the seat cushion, so that the seat cushion wrapping rests under pre-stress laterally on the seat cushion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A protective wrapping for a vehicle seat comprising a seat cushion and a backrest cushion, said wrapping comprising: a protective wrapping for the backrest cushion comprising a protective bag that encloses the backrest cushion from above on all sides at least to the surface of the seat cushion, wherein a front side wall of the protective bag corresponding to a front side of the backrest cushion has a closing tongue at a lower edge of the front side wall, wherein the closing tongue extends through a gap between the backrest cushion and the seat cushion to the protective bag side corresponding to a rear side of the backrest cushion and is connected to the rear side of the backrest cushion, wherein the protective bag surrounds the backrest cushion without tensile stress; and a protective wrapping for the seat cushion consisting of a protective hood comprising plastic foil pieces joined together and enclosing the seat cushion from above on all sides except the underside, the protective hood having side walls circling the seat cushion and partially protruding at the underside of the seat cushion, said protruding part of the side walls being circularly gathered below the seat cushion, wherein at least the sides of the protective hood in an area of the seat bottom rest under pre-stress against the seat cushion and a part of the protective hood spanning an upper seat surface of the seat cushion has a tensile stress in a longitudinal direction that is less than that in a transverse direction. 2. A protective wrapping according to claim 1, wherein the closing tongue further comprises an adhesive strip and a protective strip. 3. A protective wrapping according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of pieces joined together are sewn together. 4. A protective wrapping according to claim 1, wherein the protective bag comprises a non-shrinkable foil. 5. A protective wrapping according to claim 1, wherein the protective bag further comprises at least one of welded side seams and bottom seams. 6. A protective wrapping according to claim 1, wherein the protective bag further comprises welded side seams and an expansion fold in an area of the protective bag corresponding to an upper edge of the backrest cushion. 7. A protective wrapping according to claim 1, wherein the closing tongue is connected to the protective bag corresponding to a rear side of the backrest cushion by a self-adhesive strip having glue on both sides or by a strip-shaped coating of a self-adhesive bonding agent. 8. A protective wrapping according to claim 1, wherein at least the pieces of the protective hood corresponding to the seat bottom comprise a shrinkable foil having a shrinking capacity in the circumferential direction of the seat bottom of at least 30%. 9. A protective wrapping according to claim 8, wherein the shrinking capacity is at least 50%. 10. A protective wrapping according to claim 1, wherein the protective wrapping for the seat cushion is recessed at points corresponding to mountings for connecting the seat cushion with the backrest cushion. 11. A protective wrapping according to claim 1, wherein the tensile stress of a part of the protective hood spanning the seat surface is less in the longitudinal direction than in the transverse direction, thereby spanning two lateral guiding cushions tangentially and having a distance to a center part of the seat surface. 12. A protective wrapping according to claim 1, wherein a shrinking capacity of the pieces corresponding to the seat bottom is approximately 50% in parallel to a lower edge of the seat cushion and is approximately 10% transversely to the lower edge of the seat cushion. 13. A protective wrapping according to claim 1, wherein the at least one of the protective bag and the protective hood has a thickness of approximately 100 .mu.m. 14. A process for wrapping a vehicle seat comprising a seat cushion and a backrest cushion, comprising: enclosing the backrest cushion from above on all sides at least to a surface of the seat cushion with a protective bag having a front side wall corresponding to a front side of the backrest cushion having a closing tongue at a lower edge of said front side wall; fixing the protective bag on the backrest cushion by directing the closing tongue around a lower edge of the backrest cushion and to a side of the protective bag corresponding to a rear side of the backrest cushion and connecting the closing tongue to the rear side of the backrest cushion, whereby the protective bag surrounds the backrest cushion without tensile stress; tailoring a protective hood to a shape and size of the seat cushion by cutting and joining plastic foil pieces; enclosing the seat cushion from above on all sides except the underside with the protective hood, thereby encircling all sides of the seat cushion by side walls of the protective hood, wherein the side walls partially protrude at the underside of the seat cushion; fixing the protective hood on the seat cushion by gathering the protruding part of the side walls in a circumferential direction below the seat cushion, wherein a part of the protective hood spanning an upper seat surface of the seat cushion has a tensile stress in a longitudinal direction that is less than that in the transverse direction; and assembling the separately enclosed backrest cushion and the enclosed seat cushion to each other into a single seat. 15. A process according to claim 14, wherein the connecting of the closing tongue is by gluing. 16. A process according to claim 14, wherein the plastic foil pieces of the protective hood are joined together by sewing. 17. A process according to claim 14, further comprising: cutting the plastic foil pieces corresponding to the seat bottom from a foil web, wherein a direction of the highest shrinking capacity of the foil web is in approximately the circumferential position of the seat bottom; and thermally shrinking the cut plastic foil pieces, thereby circularly gathering part of the protective hood below the seat cushion. 18. A protective wrapping according to claim 1, wherein said protective wrapping is for a one-time use. 19. A process for wrapping a vehicle seat according to claim 14, wherein the seat cushion and the backrest cushion are initially separate. 