A method and apparatus for increasing the sensitivity of an in situ particle monitor. A light scattering technique, preferably using laser light, is employed to monitor particle concentrations within the processing chamber of a plasma-based substrate processing system. Particle concentrations are increased in the light field of the sensor by creating an electric or magnetic field in the processing chamber to concentrate the particles suspended therein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An in situ particle monitoring system of monitoring particles in a plasma within a processing chamber of a substrate processing system for processing a substrate, said particle monitoring system comprising: a particle concentrator for concentrating at least a portion of the particles into a reduced volume which is smaller than an original volume occupied by said particles; an optically transparent window in a wall of the processing chamber; a light source for illuminating at least a portion of said reduced volume through said optically transparent window; and an optical detector for detecting at least some light scattered by at least some particles in said at least a portion of said reduced volume and exiting the processing chamber through said optically transparent window. 2. The particle monitoring system of claim 1, further comprising a display for displaying an output of said optical detector. 3. The particle monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said particle concentrator uses a magnetic field to concentrate the particles. 4. The particle monitoring system of claim 1, wherein said particle concentrator uses an electric field to concentrate the particles. 5. The particle monitoring system of claim 4, wherein said electric field is generated by contact between a first material and the plasma, said first material being between a second material and a third material. 6. The particle monitoring system of claim 5, wherein said first material is a dielectric material, said second material is a conductive material, and said third material is a conductive material. 7. The particle monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the particle concentrator concentrates said at least a portion of the particles into said reduced volume which is positioned away from the substrate. 8. An in situ particle monitoring system for monitoring particles in a plasma within a processing chamber of a substrate processing system, said particle monitoring system comprising: a particle concentrator for concentrating at least a portion of the particles into a reduced volume which is smaller than an original volume occupied by said particles; first and second optically transparent windows in a wall of the processing chamber; a light source for illuminating at least a portion of said reduced volume through said first optically transparent window; and an optical detector for detecting at least some light scattered by at least some particles in said at least a portion of said reduced volume and exiting the processing chamber through said second optically transparent window. 9. The particle monitoring system of claim 8, further comprising a display for displaying an output of said optical detector. 10. The particle monitoring system of claim 8, wherein said particle concentrator uses a magnetic field to concentrate the particles. 11. The particle monitoring system of claim 10, wherein said magnetic field is created using a permanent magnet. 12. The particle monitoring system of claim 10, wherein said magnetic field is created using an electromagnet. 13. The particle monitoring system of claim 8, wherein said particle concentrator uses an electric field to concentrate the particles. 14. The particle monitoring system of claim 13, wherein said electric field is generated by contact between a geometrical discontinuity in a metal surface and the plasma. 15. The particle monitoring system of claim 13, wherein said electric field is generated by contact between a dielectric material and the plasma, said dielectric material being laterally surrounded by a conductive material. 16. The particle monitoring system of claim 13, wherein said electric field is generated by contact between a first material and the plasma, said first material being between a second material and a third material. 17. The particle monitoring system of claim 16, wherein said first material is a dielectric material, said second material is a conductive material, and said third material is a conductive material. 18. The particle monitoring system of claim 17, further comprising: a ring of said second material, disposed concentrically about the substrate; a ring of said first material, disposed concentrically about said ring of said second material; and a ring of said third material, disposed concentrically about said ring of said first material. 19. The particle monitoring system of claim 18, wherein a permittivity of said first material is lower than a permittivity of said second material and a permittivity of said third material. 20. A method for detecting particles using a particle concentration monitor having improved sensitivity, the particle concentration monitor having a light source for creating a light field and a detector having a field of view, for monitoring particles within a processing chamber of a substrate processing system for processing a substrate, said method comprising the steps of: creating a plasma within the processing chamber, said plasma causing a portion of the particles to acquire a static electrical charge; and applying an electric field to said portion of the particles to concentrate said portion of the particles within a reduced volume in conformance with said electric field, said reduced volume being smaller than an original volume occupied by said particles and being at least partially within the light field and the field of view. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of displaying an output of the optical detector. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein said electric field is generated by contact between a dielectric material and said plasma, said dielectric material being laterally surrounded by a metal material. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein said electric field is generated by contact between a geometrical discontinuity in a metal surface and said plasma. 24. The method of claim 20, wherein said reduced volume is positioned away from the substrate. 25. A method for improving the sensitivity of a particle concentration monitor, the particle concentration monitor having a light source for creating a light field and a detector having a field of view, for monitoring particles within a processing chamber of a substrate processing system for processing a substrate, said method comprising the steps of: creating a plasma within the processing chamber, said plasma causing a portion of the particles to acquire a static electrical charge; and applying a magnetic field to said portion of the particles to concentrate said portion of the particles within a reduced volume in conformance with said magnetic field, said reduced volume being smaller than an original volume occupied by said particles and being at least partially within the light field and the field of view. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said magnetic field is created using a permanent magnet. 27. The method of claim 25, wherein said magnetic field is created using an electromagnet. 28. The method of claim 25, wherein said reduced volume is positioned away from the substrate. 29. The method of claim 25, wherein said magnetic field is created by at least one magnet placed inside the processing chamber. 30. A method of monitoring the concentration of particles in a processing chamber of a substrate processing system using a light-scattering particle concentration monitor, the monitor having a light source for creating a light field and a detector having a field of view, said method comprising the steps of: creating a plasma within the processing chamber, said plasma causing the particles to acquire a static electrical charge; applying an electric field to the particles to concentrate a first portion of the particles into a reduced volume in conformance with said electric field, said reduced volume being smaller than an original volume occupied by said particles, a portion of said reduced volume being at least partially within the light field and the field of view; illuminating said portion of said reduced volume using the light source; and detecting light scattered from particles within said portion of said reduced volume using the detector. 31. A method of monitoring the concentration of particles in a processing chamber of a substrate processing system using a light-scattering particle concentration monitor, the monitor having a light source for creating a light field and a detector having a field of view, said method comprising the steps of: creating a plasma within the processing chamber, said plasma causing the particles to acquire a static electrical charge; applying a magnetic field to the particles to concentrate a first portion of the particles into a reduced volume in conformance with said magnetic field, said reduced volume being smaller than an original volume occupied by said particles, a portion of said reduced volume being at least partially within the light field and the field of view; illuminating said portion of said reduced volume using the light source; and detecting light scattered from particles within said portion of said reduced volume using the detector. 