A flexible actuator assembly (20) including a flexible bladder device (22) having an expandable sealed chamber (23) adapted to substantially directionally displace between a deflated condition and an inflated condition, displacing a proximal portion (25) of the bladder device (22) away from a distal portion (26) thereof. An elongated tendon member (27) includes a distal portion (28) oriented outside the chamber (23), while an anchor portion (30) extends into the chamber (23) through a distal opening (31) in the bladder device (22). The tendon anchor portion (30) is further coupled proximate to the bladder proximal portion (25) in a manner adapted to: selectively invert displaceable portions (32) of the bladder device (22) when urged toward the deflated condition to position the anchor portion (30) and the bladder proximal portion (25) relatively closer to the bladder distal portion (26); and selectively evert the inverted displaceable portions (32) of the bladder device (22) when displaced toward the inflated condition which positions the anchor portion (30) and the bladder proximal portion (25) relatively farther away from the bladder distal portion (26) for selective movement of the tendon distal portion (28) between an extended condition and a retracted condition, respectively.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flexible actuator assembly comprising: a flexible bladder device defining an expandable chamber, between a proximal portion and an opposite distal portion thereof, adapted to substantially directionally displace between a deflated condition and an inflated condition, displacing said proximal portion away from said distal portion; an elongated tendon member having a distal portion, oriented outside the chamber, and an anchor portion, spaced-apart from the tendon distal portion, extending into said chamber through a distal opening in said bladder device positioned proximate the bladder distal portion thereof, the anchor portion being coupled proximate to the bladder proximal portion in a manner adapted to selectively invert displaceable portions of the bladder device when displaced toward the deflated condition to position the anchor portion and the bladder proximal portion relatively closer to the bladder distal portion, and selectively evert the inverted displaceable portions of the bladder device when displaced toward the inflated condition to position the anchor portion and the bladder proximal portion relatively farther away from the bladder distal portion for selective movement of the tendon member between an extended condition and a retracted condition, respectively; and a sliding seal formed in the bladder distal opening between the bladder device and said tendon member to sufficiently seal said chamber during reciprocating movement between the retracted condition and the extended condition. 2. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 1 wherein, said bladder device is elongated and configured to displace substantially along a longitudinal axis thereof. 3. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 2 further including: a securing device adapted to provide tensile support to said bladder device for proximal attachment of said actuator assembly. 4. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 3 wherein, said securing device includes an elongated sheath member substantially surrounding said bladder device and defining a cavity at a proximal portion thereof formed for receipt of the displacing bladder device when everted toward the inflated condition. 5. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 4 wherein, said sheath member is adapted to substantially constrain radial expansion of said chamber during displacement of said bladder device from the deflated condition to the inflated condition. 6. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 3 wherein, a distal portion of said securing device is coupled to the bladder distal portion. 7. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 1 wherein, said chamber of said bladder device tapers inwardly toward the bladder proximal portion. 8. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 1 further including: a pressure port extending into said chamber to enable fluid communication for inflation and deflation of said chamber to displace said bladder device between the inflated condition and deflated condition, respectively. 9. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 1 further including: a pressure spool positioned in said bladder distal opening and adapted cooperate with the bladder distal portion to sufficiently seal said chamber, said spool further defining an aperture extending therethrough for reciprocating receipt of said tendon member between the extended condition and the retracted condition. 10. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 9 wherein, the spool aperture is sized and dimensioned to support the sliding seal therein. 11. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 10 wherein, said spool defines a pressure port extending into said chamber to enable fluid communication for inflation and deflation of said chamber to displace said bladder device between the inflated condition and deflated condition, respectively. 12. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 1 further including: a support plug positioned between said bladder device and the tendon anchor portion to mount said tendon member to the bladder device proximate the bladder proximal portion. 13. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 12 wherein, said bladder proximal portion defines a proximal opening into said chamber formed and dimensioned for sealed receipt of said support plug therein. 14. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 13 wherein, an engaging surface of the bladder proximal portion being inverted inwardly into said chamber to define said proximal opening. 15. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 14 wherein, said support plug defines a mounting surface adapted to cooperate with the inverted engaging surface of said bladder device to form a sufficient seal therewith. 16. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 15 wherein, said support plug further defining an elongated support surface extending proximally away from said mounting surface, and formed to provide radial support to the inverted displaceable portions of said bladder device when oriented in said deflated condition. 17. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 16 wherein, said support surface is substantially cylindrical-shaped. 18. A flexible actuator assembly comprising: an elongated flexible bladder device having an expandable chamber between a first portion and an opposite second portion thereof, proximal said first portion defining a first opening into said chamber and a second portion defining a second opening into said chamber, said bladder device being formed and dimensioned to substantially directionally expand substantially along a longitudinal axis thereof between a deflated condition and an inflated condition, displacing the bladder second portion away from the bladder first portion; an elongated support plug configured to cooperate with said first portion of the bladder device to hermetically seal the bladder first opening; an elongated tendon member extending through the bladder second opening having a distal portion oriented outside the chamber and an anchor portion coupled to said support plug in said chamber in a manner adapted to selectively invert displaceable portions of the bladder device when displaced toward the deflated condition to position the anchor portion and the bladder second portion relatively closer to the bladder first portion, and selectively evert the inverted displaceable portions of the bladder device when displaced toward the inflated condition to position the anchor portion and the bladder second portion relatively farther away from the bladder first portion for selective movement of the tendon member between an extended condition and a retracted condition, respectively; and a sliding seal formed in the bladder distal opening between the first portion of the bladder and said tendon member to sufficiently seal said chamber during reciprocating movement between the extended condition and the retracted condition. 19. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 18 wherein, said second opening is positioned substantially at a bladder distal portion, and said first opening is positioned substantially at the bladder proximal portion. 20. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 19 further including: a constraining structure cooperating with said bladder device to substantially restrict radial expansion thereof during inflation from the deflated condition to the inflated condition, and promote longitudinal displacement of the bladder proximal portion from the bladder distal portion substantially along the longitudinal axis thereof. 21. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 20 wherein, said constraining structure includes an elongated sheath member substantially surrounding said bladder device and defining a cavity at a proximal portion of the constraining structure formed for receipt of the displacing bladder device when everted toward the inflated condition. 22. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 21 wherein, said cavity of said sheath member tapers inwardly toward the sheath proximal portion. 23. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 19 further including: a pressure port extending into said chamber to enable fluid communication for inflation and deflation of said chamber to displace said bladder device between the inflated condition and deflated condition, respectively. 24. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 21 further including: a substantially rigid spool positioned in said bladder second opening and adapted cooperate with the second portion of the bladder device to sufficiently seal said chamber, said spool further defining an aperture extending therethrough sized and dimensioned to support the sliding seal therein. 25. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 21 wherein, the first portion of the bladder device is inverted inwardly into said chamber and adjacent a mounting surface of the support plug adapted to cooperate with said first portion to form a hermetic seal therewith. 26. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 25 wherein, said support plug further defining an elongated support surface extending away from said mounting surface and toward the sheath proximal portion, said support plug being formed to provide radial support to the inverted displaceable portions of said bladder device when oriented in said deflated condition. 27. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 26 further including: a pressure port extending into said chamber to enable fluid communication for inflation and deflation of said chamber to displace said bladder device between the inflated condition and deflated condition, respectively. 28. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 21 wherein, said tendon member defining a passageway extending therethrough and into said chamber to enable fluid communication for inflation and deflation of said chamber to displace said bladder device between the inflated condition and deflated condition, respectively. 