Actuators for power driven accessories for moving objects, such as vehicle power windows, windshield wipers, vehicle power antennas, power side view mirrors, catheter drivers, curtain moving machines, bi-directional rotary motors, thruster mechanisms that move relative to a reaction surface or that drive a driven member relative to itself, use orthogonal oscillatory transducers cooperatively to drive intermediary elements to move these objects bi-directionally along constrained paths. The actuators may also power a pneumatically driven autonomous robot element using dual pneumatic DSES elements such as planar contact surfaces with an array of apertures which are cyclically switched form a source of compressed air which acts as a lubricant to greatly reduce surface friction to a vacuum source, which acts as a clamping medium increasing contact frictional force. Orthogonal bladders are cyclically pressurized or vented to move a central block relative to a surrounding frame. All cyclic activity is oscillated at the same frequency. Coordination of phase differences relative to the DSES cycles determines the path of the robotic element which can vector anywhere on a smooth planar surface.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for moving an object bi-directionally along constrained paths comprising at least two orthogonal oscillatory transducers cooperatively driving a plurality of intermediary elements moving said object bi-directionally along said constrained paths, wherein said object is an end-use device, such as for example but not limited to, an automotive vehicle power window, and further wherein said oscillatory transducers are fewer than four discrete transducers operated at frequencies well below ultrasonic frequencies using single contact elements in each repetitive contact-and-move drive sequence. 2. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said object is a vehicle power window, wherein further said intermediary elements include a pair of leaf springs, each said leaf spring transmitting power from each said transducer to a friction drive block, said friction drive block exerting force against two push-pull drive tapes, each said push-pull drive tape cooperating to move said vehicle power window bi-directionally along said constrained paths. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said at least two orthogonal oscillatory transducers comprise two pull solenoids with return springs, said solenoids and said return springs acting to drive said push-pull drive tapes driving said vehicle power window bi-directionally along said constrained paths. 4. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said at least two orthogonal oscillatory transducers comprise of two voice coil actuators, said voice coil actuators driving said vehicle power window bi-directionally along said constrained paths. 5. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said at least two orthogonal oscillatory transducers comprise two push-pull solenoids cooperating to move said vehicle power window bi-directionally along said constrained paths. 6. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said at least two orthogonal oscillatory transducers comprise two subassemblies, wherein each subassembly further includes one or more long-stroke bending piezoelectric transducers. 7. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said object is a power window and further wherein said friction drive block comprises a central section with two friction surfaces and an additional two friction surfaces attached to said central section by side springy extensions so as to engage both surfaces of said push-pull drive tapes thereby enhancing the frictional coupling thereof. 8. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said intermediary elements comprise a pair of leaf springs in a subassembly with two friction blocks, each said friction block exerting force on respective push-pull drive tapes to move a vehicle power window bi-directionally along said constrained paths, and said pair of orthogonal oscillatory transducers comprising a pull solenoid and a rotary solenoid, said pull solenoid and said rotary solenoid cooperatively driving said intermediate elements for moving said vehicle power window bi-directionally along said constrained paths. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said object is at least one windshield wiper arm, said intermediary elements including two leaf springs exerting force against a friction drive shell, said friction drive shell driving a timing belt, said timing belt moving about two timing belt pulleys, said timing belt moving said at least one windshield wiper arm in an oscillatory back and forth pattern about a windshield of a vehicle. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said object is at least one windshield wiper arm, wherein further said intermediary elements include a dual gear rack frame housing, a gear therein, two leaf springs, said leaf springs attached to respective short-stroke oscillatory transducers moving said dual gear rack housing interacting with said gear thereby causing said at least one windshield wiper arm to move in a long stroke oscillatory back and forth pattern about a windshield of a vehicle. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein movement of said windshield wiper arm is synchronized with a second said windshield wiper arm through the use of a common electronic driver driving both said windshield wiper arms. 12. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said object is a vehicle power antenna movable within a conductive hollow mast, wherein further said transducers drive intermediary elements including a leaf spring driving a friction pad, said friction pad penetrated by a wire with a distal loop, for moving a push-pull semi-rigid drive cord controlling up and down movement of said vehicle power antenna. 13. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said object is a power side view mirror, wherein further said transducers drive said intermediary elements including three spring wires, driving a friction pad about a hemispherical drive surface; said two or more oscillatory transducers comprising three pull solenoids with return springs driving said intermediate elements for moving said power side view mirror orthogonally. 14. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said object is a power side view mirror wherein further said intermediary elements include a friction pad moving a hemispherical drive surface; wherein further said two or more oscillatory transducers include at least three segments of a shape memory wire, said at least three segments driving said intermediate elements for moving said power side view mirror orthogonally. 15. The apparatus according to claim 14 wherein two separate entire said mechanisms are used in a single housing to move two separate mirror surfaces independently within said single housing. 16. An apparatus for urging a movable, driven catheter bi-directionally along constrained paths comprising two orthogonal oscillatory transducers cooperatively driving a plurality of intermediary elements moving said catheter along said constrained paths, wherein said intermediary elements include a length of elastomeric tubing, and an elastomeric disk with a central hole; further wherein said orthogonal oscillatory transducers comprise a rotary voice coil element combined with a linear voice coil element in a dual motion transducer, said dual motion transducer moving said catheter through a housing. 17. The apparatus according to claim 16 wherein force sensing resistors detect forces pressing on insert and withdraw switches to control the speed of driving said catheter in either direction in an ergonomic manner. 18. The apparatus according to claim 16 wherein two of said dual motion transducers apparatuses are combined to create a smooth drive of said catheter. 19. An apparatus for moving an object bi-directionally along constrained paths comprising a single oscillatory transducer driving one or more driven members bi-directionally through the use of stroke position selective engagement of one of two oriented fiber strips or strip pairs for moving said object bi-directionally along said constrained paths, wherein said one of two oriented fiber strips or strip pairs are reciprocated while in constant contact with said one or more driven members to urge said driven members in a desired direction under the influence of fiber orientation. 20. The apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said object is a vehicle power window and wherein said driven members are two push-pull tapes and said stroke position selective engagement uses a stationary spreader member interacting with a carrier having two pairs of movable oriented fiber blocks, said carrier being rigidly attached to an output member of said single oscillatory transducer, which said single oscillatory transducer is a long-stroke voice coil linear transducer. 21. The apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said one or more driven members include a single friction ring in constant contact with two push-pull tapes and said stroke position selective engagement uses a stationary spreader bar interacting with a circular carrier having two pairs of oriented fiber blocks, said circular carrier being attached to the output of a bi-directional rotary solenoid for moving said vehicle window bi-directionally along said constrained paths. 22. The apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said one or more driven members is a curtain carrier that pulls or pushes said curtain open or closed, and said stroke position selective engagement of said one of two oriented fiber strips is achieved by the interaction of a belt with two oriented fiber strips tilting in one direction or another within a track housing under the influence of a stationary bump strip attached to the inner sides of the track housing, said single transducer being a long stroke voice coil transducer. 23. The apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said one or more driven members is a curtain carrier that pulls or pushes the curtain open or closed, and said stroke position selective engagement of one of two oriented fiber strips is achieved by the interaction of a belt with two oriented fiber strips tilting in one direction or another within a track housing under the influence of a stationary bump strip attached to the inner sides of the track housing, said single transducer being a series arrangement of a long and a short length of a shape memory ribbon. 24. The apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said one or more driven members is a curtain carrier that pulls or pushes said curtain open or closed, and said stroke position selective engagement of one of two oriented fiber strips is achieved by the interaction of a belt with two oriented fiber strips tilting in one direction or another within a track housing under the influence of a stationary bump strip attached to the inner sides of the track housing, said single transducer being a series arrangement of a long and a short length of scrolled rope electrically active polymer. 25. The apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said object is a bi-directional rotary motor, wherein further said one or more driven members is a drum with a fluted surface, and said stroke position selective engagement of one of two oriented fiber strip pairs is achieved by moving a yoke a fixed linear distance, said single transducer being a long stroke voice coil actuator. 26. The apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said object is a manually reversible rotary motor and wherein further said one or more driven members is a drum with a fluted surface, and said stroke position selective engagement of one of two oriented fiber strip pairs is achieved by manually moving a subframe housing. 27. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said single transducer is a length of shape memory wire. 28. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said single transducer is a length of scrolled electrically active polymer rope. 29. A thruster mechanism for bi-directional movement of an object, said thruster comprising a thruster moving itself relative to a reaction surface, or to drive a driven member relative to itself, by operating said thruster while a surface of a Dynamic Surface Engagement Switch (DSES) is constantly forced against said reaction surface of said driven member, wherein cyclic operation of said DSES and its coordination with the oscillatory linear movement of said DSES by a linear oscillatory transducer achieves bi-directional motion of said object, wherein said DSES comprises a housing having a plate therein, said plate having surface deformation pins which are cyclically driven past a contact surface through apertures in said contact surface of said DSES, by the action of a dedicated oscillatory transducer moving said plate having said surface deformation pins thereon. 30. The thruster according to claim 29 wherein said linear oscillatory transducer and said dedicated oscillatory transducer are piezoelectric stacks. 31. The thruster according to claim 30 wherein said thruster is operated at ultrasonic frequency. 32. The thruster according to claim 29 wherein said linear oscillatory transducer and said dedicated oscillatory transducer are piezoelectric bending transducers. 33. The thruster as in claim 32 wherein said transducers are THUNDER.RTM. devices. 34. The thruster according to claim 33 wherein said thruster is operated at ultrasonic frequency. 35. The thruster according to claim 29 wherein said linear oscillatory transducer and said dedicated oscillatory transducer are pneumatic bladders. 36. The thruster according to claim 29 wherein said object is a curtain moving machine, wherein further said thruster further comprises a track, a curtain carrier powered by one or more piezoelectric thrusters, and a power distribution conductor system along the track housing. 37. A manufacturing method for manufacturing said DSES element of claim 29, wherein said DSES comprises components including said housing having said plate therein, said plate having said surface deformation pins which are cyclically driven past said contact surface through said apertures in said contact surface of said DSES, by the action of said dedicated oscillatory transducer, said transducer moving said plate, said plate having said surface deformation pins thereon, said method comprising the steps of: assembling all of said components of said DSES element; selectively statically powering said dedicated oscillatory transducer; simultaneously grinding both a contact surface of said DSES flat and a plurality of protruding pins protruding through said contact surface flat, and then, lapping said contact surface into a smooth low friction planar surface. 38. An apparatus for moving a vehicle power window bi-directionally along constrained paths comprising a pair of pressure pads, each said pressure pad providing a low friction surface against one or the other of a pair of non-perforated push-pull drive tapes, said pressure pads being spring loaded by a pair of springs, and a friction wheel resisting the forces by said pressure pads, said friction wheel being driven in either direction by a gear motor. 39. A pneumatically driven autonomous robot element comprising dual pneumatic DSES elements including planar contact surfaces with an array of apertures which are cyclically switched form a source of compressed air, which acts as a lubricant to greatly reduce surface friction, to a vacuum source, which acts as a clamping medium increasing contact frictional force, wherein two orthogonal bladder pairs are cyclically pressurized or vented to move a central block, with pneumatic DSES relative to a surrounding frame with pneumatic DSES, wherein all cyclic activity is oscillated at the same frequency, and coordination of phase differences relative to the DSES cycles determines the path of said robotic element which can vector anywhere on a smooth planar surface, wherein two said DSES elements are driven in synchronism but 180 degrees out of phase such that the frame is in a vacuum when said central block is expelling air, and vice-versa. 