A testing element for detecting positioning and mounting tolerances during ounting of electronic components on a printed circuit board has a protective housing and a transparent base body mounted in the protective housing. The transparent base body has a top surface and a base surface. At least one of the base surface and the top surface has machine-readable markings. An adhesive is applied to the testing element for connecting the testing element to the testing board.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A dummy component for mounting on a glass testing board for detecting positioning and mounting tolerances for robotic assembly devices, said dummy component comprising: a protective housing (2); a transparent base body (1) mounted onto said protective housing (2); said transparent base body (1) having a top surface (1d) and a base surface (1g); at least one of said base surface (1g) and said top surface (1d) having machine-readable markings (3); and an adhesive means for removably affixing said protective housing to said glass testing board. 2. The invention of claim 1, wherein said protective housing (2) comprises plastic. 3. The invention of claim 1, wherein said protective housing (2) comprises an aluminum alloy. 4. The invention of claim 1, wherein said protective housing (2) comprises walls surrounding said transparent base body (1) and wherein said walls are at least partially light-absorbent. 5. The invention of claim 1, wherein said protective housing (2) comprises recesses (7) allowing passage of radiation through said dummy component. 6. The invention of claim 1, wherein said protective housing (2) comprises at least one support (4) to which said adhesive means is affixed. 7. The invention of claim 6, wherein said adhesive means comprises spot application of an adhesive. 8. The invention of claim 6, wherein said adhesive means comprises a large surface area application of an adhesive. 9. The invention of claim 6, wherein said at least one support (4) comprises a circumferential frame. 10. The invention of claim 1, wherein said adhesive means comprises a double-sided self-adhesive tape comprising a pressure-sensitive adhesive. 11. The invention of claim 1, wherein said adhesive means comprises a permanent-elastic, microporous tape. 12. The invention of claim 1, wherein said adhesive means comprises an adhesive pad. 13. The invention of claim 6, wherein said support (4) projects in a range from 0.05 mm to 0.25 mm from said base surface (1g). 14. The invention of claim 1, wherein said base body (1) comprises flat silicon glass. 15. The invention of claim 1, wherein said base surface (1g) and said top surface (1d) have said machine-readable markings (3) and wherein said machine readable markings (3) of said top surface (1d) are aligned with said machine-readable markings (3) of said base surface (1g). 