An improvement is set forth in a robotic arm structure which includes at least two links. .theta. motion is provided about a primary axis at the proximal end portion of the proximalmost of the links. R motion proceeds radially from the primary axis whereby the distal end portion of the distalmost of the links can be moved in a radially extending straight line. An end effector is pivotally mounted for rotation relative to the distal end portion of the distalmost link about an end effector axis which is parallel to the primary axis. The structure is improved by adding one or more a yaw motor, a roll motor and a pitch motor for rotating the wrist of the arm about the respective axes. A sensor array senses the R, .theta., Z and yaw, roll and/or pitch motions and creates and transmits electronic signals representative thereof to a computer controller which monitors and controls the R, .theta., Z and yaw, roll and/or pitch motions. Non-radial straight line motion and indeed, in certain embodiments any desired three-dimensional motion, is thereby enabled as is picking up of workpieces such as semiconductor wafers, flat panel displays and data storage disks, which are misaligned in cassettes or at workstations and/or are in cassettes which are misaligned and/or aligned and set up at an angle relative to the usual plane of operation of the arm.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A robotic arm structure providing .theta. motion and R motion, comprising: at least two links, each having a proximalmost end portion and a distalmost end portion, with the .theta. motion being about a primary axis at the proximal end portion of a proximalmost of the links and the R motion proceeding radially from the primary axis; an end effector attached to the distalmost link and being rotatable about an end effector axis; a motor connected to rotate the end effector about the end effector axis to thereby provide a yaw motion; and means for monitoring and controlling the yaw motion such that the end effector axis can be moved in a straight line which is not restricted to the radial direction, and wherein the means for monitoring and controlling the yaw motion moves the end effector in a straight line and maintains a constant orientation of the end effector. 2. The robotic arm structure of claim 1 wherein the monitoring and controlling means further includes monitoring and controlling the .theta. motion, R motion and yaw motion such that the distal end portion of the distalmost of the links can be moved in arbitrary continuous paths, including multisegment smooth trajectories and straight lines, which are not restricted to a radial direction while maintaining a prescribed orientation of the end effector. 3. A workpiece processing system which includes a set of cassettes arranged in a substantially straight line loaded with workpieces in combination with the arm structure of claim 1. 4. A workpiece processing system which includes a conveyor belt which transports cassettes loaded with workpieces along a path such that the cassettes are not all radially accessible to the end effector in combination with the arm structure of claim 1. 5. A plurality of arm structures in accordance with claim 1, each having one or more work stations within its reach, the arm structures being positioned sufficiently close together such that after a workpiece has been transported to one of the work stations within reach of a first of the arms and processed, it is then transported by the first of the arms to a transfer station which is also within the reach of the second of the arms for processing at work stations within the reach of the second arm. 6. A sensor array located in a position such that a workpiece being transported by the arm structure as set forth in claim 2 passes over the sensor array whereat any deviation in alignment of the workpiece, if present, is determined and an electronic error signal is generated and communicated to the monitoring and controlling means to make the appropriate .theta. motion, R motion and yaw motion corrections to properly align the workpiece. 7. A robotic arm system as set forth in claim 1, further comprising: at least one additional end effector attached to the distalmost link; and an additional motor connected to rotate each additional end effector to thereby provide a yaw motion for the additional end effector; wherein the monitoring and controlling means further includes means for monitoring and controlling the yaw motion of the additional end effector. 8. The robotic arm structure according to claim 1, wherein the means for monitoring and controlling the yaw motion moves the end effector in a straight line which extends along a longitudinal axis of the end effector. 9. A robotic arm structure providing .theta. motion and R motion about a primary axis, the arm structure comprising: an end effector for transporting semiconductor substrates attached to the arm structure and being rotatable about an end effector axis; a first motor connected to rotate the end effector about the end effector axis to provide a yaw motion; a second motor connected to rotate the end effector to provide a roll motion of the end effector; and means for monitoring and controlling the yaw and roll motions; wherein the end effector has at least two hands such that the second motor rolls a first hand and a third motor rolls a second hand. 10. The robotic arm structure of claim 9, further comprising: a first pitch motor connected to rotate the first hand to provide a pitch motion of the first hand; and a second pitch motor connected to rotate the second hand to provide a pitch motion of the second hand. 11. A robotic arm structure providing .theta. motion and R motion about a primary axis, the arm structure comprising: an end effector for transporting semiconductor substrates attached to the arm structure and being rotatable about an end effector axis; a first motor connected to rotate the end effector about the end effector axis to provide a yaw motion; a second motor connected to rotate the end effector to provide a roll motion of the end effector; a third motor connected to rotate the end effector to provide a pitch motion of the end effector; and means for monitoring and controlling the yaw, roll, and pitch motion; wherein the end effector has at least two hands. 12. The robotic arm structure of claim 11, further comprising: a tiltable support having the arm structure thereon. 13. The robotic arm structure of claim 11, further comprising: a telescoping tiltable support having the arm structure thereon. 14. A robotic arm structure providing .theta. motion and R motion about a primary axis, the arm structure comprising: an end effector for transporting semiconductor substrates attached to the arm structure and being rotatable about an end effector axis; a first motor connected to rotate the end effector about the end effector access to provide a yaw motion; a second motor connected to rotate the end effector to provide a pitch motion of the end effector; and means for monitoring and controlling the yaw and pitch motions; wherein the end effector has at least two hands such that the second motor pitches a first hand and a third motor pitches a second hand. 15. A robotic arm structure providing .theta. motion and R motion, comprising: at least two links, each having a proximalmost end portion and a distalmost end portion, with the .theta. motion being about a primary axis at the proximal end portion of a proximalmost of the links and the R motion proceeding radially from the primary axis; an end effector attached to the distalmost link and being rotatable about an end effector axis; a motor connected to rotate the end effector about the end effector axis to thereby provide a yaw motion of the end effector which is independent of a motion of the at least two links; and means for monitoring and controlling the .theta., R, and yaw motion to move an end effector characteristic point in an arbitrary straight line. 16. The robotic arm structure of claim 15, wherein the means for monitoring and controlling the .theta., R, and yaw motion maintains a constant orientation of the end effector. 17. The robotic arm structure of claim 15, wherein the arbitrary straight line is not restricted to a line passing through a center of the robot. 18. The robotic arm structure of claim 15, wherein the means for controlling the .theta., R, and yaw motion maintains a constant orientation of the end effector which is not restricted to be parallel to the straight line in which the characteristic point of the end effector moves. 19. A robotic arm structure providing .theta. motion and R motion, comprising: at least two links, each having a proximalmost end portion and a distalmost end portion, with the .theta. motion being about a primary axis at the proximal end portion of a proximalmost of the links and the R motion proceeding radially from the primary axis; an end effector attached to the distalmost link and being rotatable about an end effector axis; a motor connected to rotate the end effector about the end effector axis to thereby provide a yaw motion of the end effector which is independent of a motion of the at least two links; and means for monitoring and controlling the .theta., R, and yaw motion to move an end effector characteristic point in an arbitrary continuous path. 20. The robotic arm structure of claim 19, wherein the means for monitoring and controlling the .theta., R, and yaw motion executes a continuous path trajectory of the end effector that results in a smooth trajectory. 21. The robotic arm structure of claim 19, wherein the means for monitoring and controlling the motion of the .theta., R, and yaw motion maintains a pre-planed orientation of the end effector during the continuous path trajectory. 22. The robotic arm structure of claim 19, wherein the continuous path trajectory is not restricted to a straight line. 