A method for improving the response time of a data storage library of removable media is disclosed. The library includes a media storage rack with multiple slots for storing data media, a storage drive for writing data to or reading data from one of the media, a picker for moving the media between the slots and the drive, and a destage slot physically close to the drive. The method comprises the steps of: moving a first medium from the drive to the destage slot, the first medium being one that was last accessed by the drive; moving a second medium from a slot holding the second medium to the drive, the second medium being the medium that will be accessed next by the drive; during the operation of the drive on the second medium, returning the first medium from the destage slot to the slot originally holding the first medium; and positioning the picker close to the drive. In another embodiment of the invention, the library additionally includes a prestage slot. The step of returning the first medium, while the drive is accessing the second medium, includes the step of moving a third medium from the storage rack to the prestage slot. The third medium being one that will be accessed by the drive, following the second medium.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for destaging and prestaging media in a storage library having a plurality of removable data media, a plurality of storage slots for holding the media, at least one storage drive for reading data from and writing data to the media, a destage slot, the destage slot being a storage slot physically closest to the drive, a prestage slot, and a picker for moving the media among the slots and the drive, the method comprising the steps of: moving a first medium from the drive to the destage slot, the first medium being the medium that was last accessed by the drive; moving a second medium from the prestage slot to the drive, the second medium being the medium that will be accessed next by the drive after the first medium; and during operation of the drive on the second medium, returning the first medium from the destage slot to the slot originally holding the first medium, the returning step includes moving a third medium from a respective storage slot to the prestage slot, the third medium being the medium that will be accessed next by the drive, after the second medium. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of positioning the picker close to the drive after the picker returns the first medium. 3. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the method is operable responsive to a request for access to the second medium. 4. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein during the step of returning the first medium, the first medium is returned to the storage slot previously occupied by the second medium. 5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the media storage slots that are physically the first and second closest to the drive are used as the destage slot and the prestage slot, respectively. 6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein: the step of moving a third medium to the prestage slot is performed before the step of returning the first medium from the destage slot; and the step of returning the first medium includes the step of moving the first medium from the destage slot to the storage slot previously occupied by the third medium. 7. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the method steps are repeated as long as there are still requests to access the data media of the storage library. 8. A computer program product for use with a storage library for destaging and prestaging media in the library, the library having a plurality of removable data media, a plurality of storage slots for holding the media, at least one storage drive for reading data from and writing data to the media, a destage slot, the destage slot being a storage slot physically closest to the drive, a prestage slot, and a picker for moving the media among the slots and the drive, the computer program product comprising: a computer-readable medium; means, provided on the computer-readable medium, for directing the library to move a first medium from the drive to the destage slot, the first medium being the medium that was last accessed by the drive; means, provided on the computer-readable medium, for directing the library to move a second medium from the prestage slot to the drive, the second medium being the medium that will be accessed next by the drive after the first medium; and means, provided on the computer-readable medium, for directing the library to return the first medium from the destage slot to the slot originally holding the first medium, during operation of the drive on the second medium, the means for directing to return includes means for directing the library to move a third medium from a respective storage slot to the prestage slot, the third medium being the medium that will be accessed next by the drive, after the second medium. 9. The computer program product as recited in claim 8 further comprising means, provided on the computer-readable medium, for directing the library to position the picker close to the drive. 10. The computer program product as recited in claim 8, wherein the means for directing the library to return the first medium includes means, provided on the computer-readable medium, for directing the library to return the first medium to the storage slot previously occupied by the second medium. 11. The computer program product as recited in claim 8, wherein the media storage slots that are physically the first and second closest to the drive are used as the destage slot and the prestage slot, respectively. 12. The computer program product as recited in claim 8, wherein: the means for directing the library to move a third medium to the prestage slot operates before the means for directing the library to return the first medium from the destage slot; and the means for directing the library to return the first medium includes means, provided on the computer-readable medium, for directing the library to move the first medium from the destage slot to the slot previously occupied by the third medium. 13. The computer program product as recited in claim 8 further comprising means, provided on the computer-readable medium, for directing the library to repeat the operation of the picker and the drive as long as there are still requests to access the data media of the library. 14. A data storage library system comprising: a plurality of removable data media; a plurality of storage slots for holding the media; at least one storage drive for reading data from and writing data to the media; a prestage slot for holding a medium to be accessed next by the drive; a destage slot, the destage slot being a storage slot physically closest to the drive; and a picker for moving the media among the slots and the drive, the destage slot holding a first medium while the picker is moving a second medium from the prestage slot to the drive and moving a third medium from a respective storage slot to the prestage slot, the first medium being one that was last accessed by the drive, the second medium being the medium that will be accessed next by the drive after the first medium, and the third medium being one that will be accessed next by the drive after the second medium. 15. The system as recited in claim 14, wherein the media storage slots that are physically the first and second closest to the drive are used as the destage slot and the prestage slot, respectively. 16. The system as recited in claim 14, wherein the picker continues to move the data media between the storage slots and the drive, using the destage and prestage slots, as long as there are still pending requests to access the data media. 