A system and method for monitoring the operating condition of an electrode dresser for an automated spot welder includes a sensor for sensing an operating characteristic of the dresser. The output produced by the sensor is analyzed by a data acquisition system to determine the operating condition of the dresser. Various types of sensors may be employed including a current sensor which senses current flowing through the dresser motor, a flux sensor which senses leakage flux produced by the dresser motor, and a vibration sensor which senses vibration produced during operation of the dresser. Operating characteristics determined by the data acquisition system include whether the electrode dresser is operational, whether the dresser has been engaged by the electrodes of the welder, the amount of time that the welder electrodes were in dress, and the quality of the dress. The data acquisition system may also be configured to perform spectral analysis of sensor data to determine the presence of anomalous dresser operating conditions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for monitoring the operating condition of an automatic electrode dresser for a welder with electrodes, the electrode dresser having a motor, the system comprising: a sensor for sensing an operating characteristic of a welder electrode dresser and producing a sensor output corresponding to the operating characteristic that is sensed; and a data acquisition system for receiving and analyzing said sensor output to determine the operating condition of the electrode dresser. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sensor is a current sensor for sensing an electrical current flowing through the dresser motor. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the data acquisition system is further operable to analyze said sensor output to determine whether the electrode dresser has been engaged by the welder. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said data acquisition system is further operable to analyze said sensor output to determine the amount of time in which the welder engages the electrode dresser. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said data acquisition system is further operable to analyze said sensor output to determine a first time at which the electrode dresser has been engaged by the welder by determining from said sensor output when the load of the dresser motor increases by a first threshold amount based on said sensor output. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said data acquisition system is further operable to analyze said sensor output to determine the amount of time in which the welder engages the electrode dresser by determining a time differential between the first time and a second time at which peak motor load decreases by a second threshold amount. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein each of said first and second threshold amounts are 50 percent. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a peak hold circuit in electrical communication with said sensor and said data acquisition system, for receiving the sensor output and holding a peak amplitude of the sensor output. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said data acquisition system is further operable to analyze said sensor output to determine whether the electrode dresser has been engaged by the welder electrodes by determining whether the peak amplitude of the sensor output has changed by a threshold amount. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, further including a reset circuit in electrical communication with said peak hold circuit and said data acquisition system, for resetting the peak hold circuit after a peak value has been read from the peak hold circuit by the data acquisition system. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a vibration transducer in electrical communication with said data acquisition system, said vibration transducer sensing vibration generated by the electrode dresser and producing vibration signals corresponding to the sensed vibration. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said data acquisition system is further operable to receive said vibration signals and transform said vibration signals to the frequency domain, producing a dresser vibration spectrum which is analyzed by the data acquisition system to determine whether an anomalous operating condition is present. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein said data acquisition system is further operable to determine the presence of anomalous operating conditions by comparing peak amplitudes of a normal vibration spectrum to corresponding peak amplitudes of the dresser vibration spectrum and determining the existence of an anomalous operating condition when one or more peak amplitudes differ by a threshold amount. 14. A system for monitoring the operating condition of a plurality of electrode dressers for a plurality of welders with electrodes, each electrode dresser having a motor, the system comprising: a plurality of sensors, each of said plurality of sensors sensing an operating characteristic of a welder electrode dresser and producing a sensor output corresponding to the operating characteristic that is sensed; a plurality of peak hold circuits, each of said peak hold circuits being in electrical communication with a sensor for receiving a sensor output and holding a peak amplitude of the sensor output; a plurality of vibration transducers, each of said plurality of vibration transducers being in electrical communication with an electrode dresser and sensing vibration generated by the electrode dresser to produce vibration signals corresponding to the vibration sensed; a plurality of reset circuits, each of said reset circuits being in electrical communication with a peak hold circuit for resetting the peak hold circuits; a multiplexer in electrical communication with said plurality of peak hold circuits, said plurality of vibration transducers, and said plurality of reset circuits; and a data acquisition system in electrical communication with said multiplexer for receiving peak amplitudes and vibration signals from the multiplexor and providing a reset signal to the multiplexor to reset a peak hold circuit after a peak amplitude is read, said data acquisition system analyzing the peak amplitudes and vibration signals to determine the operating conditions of the plurality of welders. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein said data acquisition system is further operable to analyze sensor outputs and vibration signals to determine whether electrode dressers have been engaged by the welders. 16. The system of claim 14 wherein said data acquisition system is further operable to analyze sensor outputs and vibration signals to determine the amount of time in which a welder engages an electrode dresser. 17. The system of claim 14 wherein said data acquisition system is further operable to transform said vibration signals to the frequency domain to produce dresser vibration spectra which are analyzed by the data acquisition system to determine whether anomalous dresser operating conditions are present. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein said data acquisition system is further operable to determine the presence of anomalous dresser operating conditions by comparing peak amplitudes of normal vibration spectra to corresponding peak amplitudes of dresser vibration spectra and determining when one or more peak amplitudes differ by a threshold amount. 19. A method for monitoring the operating condition of an electrode dresser for a welder with electrodes, the electrode dresser having a motor, the method comprising the steps of: sensing an operating characteristic of a welder electrode dresser to produce a sensor output corresponding to the operating characteristic that is sensed; and analyzing said sensor output to determine the operating condition of the electrode dresser. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the operating condition determined in accordance with the analyzing step is the amount of time in which the welder engages the electrode dresser. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein the operating condition determined in accordance with the analyzing step is whether the electrode dresser has been engaged by the welder. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein said analyzing step further includes the steps of: determining from said sensor output when the load of the dresser motor increases by a first threshold amount at a first time; determining from said sensor output when the load of the dresser motor decreases by a second threshold amount at a second time; and calculating a time differential between the first and second times corresponding to the amount of time in which the welder engages the dresser. 23. The method of claim 19 wherein said analyzing step further includes the steps of: transforming said sensor output to the frequency domain to produce a sensor spectrum; providing a normal spectrum corresponding to a sensor spectrum that is produced when no anomalous dresser operating conditions are present; comparing peak amplitudes of the normal spectrum with peak amplitudes of the sensor spectrum; and determining the existence of an anomalous dresser operating condition when one or more peak amplitudes of the sensor spectrum differ from one or more peak amplitudes of the normal spectrum by a threshold amount. 