An induction hardening apparatus for inductively heating and quench hardening a crankshaft includes an arrangement of two workstations similarly configured and a robotic device indexing the crankshaft from a first workstation to a second workstation. The induction hardening apparatus is designed with a single induction coil located at the first workstation for the sequential induction heating and quench hardening of the pins of the crankshaft. At the second workstation, a single induction coil is used for the bearing surfaces of the crankshaft. An important feature of the present invention is that the induction coils do not contact the surfaces of the crankshaft which are being inductively heated and quench hardened. Crankshaft dimensions and geometry are programmed into servodrive systems which move the corresponding coil in X and Y directions accurately tracing the orbit or path of each pin and each bearing surface. Each induction coil is configured with openings on an inside surface in order to deliver a quench fluid directly to the inductively heated portion of the crankshaft.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method induction hardening a crankshaft with a plurality of pins and a plurality of bearing surfaces by the use of an apparatus which includes fixture means for positioning and supporting a crankshaft at a crankshaft location, rotary drive means for rotating said crankshaft, an induction coil, a positioning system for moving said induction coil in a predetermined path, and control means, said method comprising the following steps: a) loading a crankshaft into said fixture means so as to vertically support said crankshaft between centers; b) selecting one of said plurality of crankshaft pins for induction hardening; c) entering geometry and dimensional data for said selected pin into said control means; d) activating said positioning system so as to position said induction coil adjacent said selected pin; e) energizing said positioning system concurrently with said rotary drive means such that as the pin sweeps its rotary orbit, the induction coil tracks that orbit; f) electrically energizing said induction coil in order to inductively heat said selected pin; and g) quenching said selected pin. 2. The method of claim 1 which further includes the step of moving said induction coil to a second pin and thereafter repeating steps c) through g). 3. The method of claim 2 which further includes the step of sequentially moving said induction coil to all remaining pins of the crankshaft, one pin at a time, and for each pin repeating steps c) through g). 4. The method of claim 3 which further includes the step of moving said crankshaft to a second workstation for induction hardening of said plurality of bearing surfaces. 5. A method of induction hardening a crankshaft with at least one pin and at least one bearing surface by the use of an apparatus which includes fixture means for positioning and supporting a crankshaft at a crankshaft location, rotary drive means for rotating said crankshaft, an induction coil, a positioning system for moving said induction coil in a predetermined path, and control means, said method comprising the following steps: a) loading a crankshaft into said fixture means so as to support said crankshaft between centers; b) selecting one crankshaft pin for induction hardening; c) entering geometry and dimensional data for said selected pin into said control means; d) activating said positioning system so as to position said induction coil adjacent said selected pin; e) energizing said positioning system concurrently with said rotary drive means such that as the pin sweeps its rotary orbit, the induction coil tracks that orbit; f) electrically energizing said induction coil in order to inductively heat said selected pin; and g) quenching said selected pin. 