An bi-directional, interactive multi-station medical specimen analysis system for simultaneously analyzing a medical specimen at remote locations and accessing, for evaluation, the results of each of the analyses at a central laboratory is disclosed. The system is networked to a server for storing databases. A central laboratory, interacts with remote computers, through the server to review, evaluate and accept or reject specimen analyses. The server communicates with the plurality of dedicated computers, laboratory computer and a centralized computer through a LAN or WAN. Analytical instruments which are not equipped to communicate with a computer are connected through computer interface software which interprets the instrument language into the computer program language and the computer program language into the instrument language. The bi-directional, interactive system requests analytical tests, transmit the test results to the server databases and receives and displays data from the server databases. Laboratory based bi-directional, interactive software acquires and either displays test results from the server databases, reviews and accepts or rejects the test results and transmits the acceptance or rejection to the server databases.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A bi-directional interactive multi-station specimen analysis system for simultaneously analyzing a specimen at remote locations and accessing for evaluation the results of each of the analyses at a central laboratory, said system comprising: a server for storing databases, including patient demographics and analysis results and for permitting automatic retrieval and storage of data on an interactive basis by a plurality of computers, a plurality of analytical instruments each interacting with a dedicated computer to activate and interact with the analytical instrument and to serve as an interface between said analytical instrument and said server, said dedicated computer having display means; a central laboratory computer to interact with the dedicated computer through the server to review, evaluate and accept or reject specimen analyses, said laboratory computer having display means; communication means connecting said server with said plurality of dedicated computers, said laboratory computer and a centralized computer; analytical instrument to dedicated computer interface to interpret the instrument language into the computer program language and the computer program language into the instrument language; dedicated computer interactive means for requesting analytical tests, transmitting the test results to the server databases and receiving and displaying data from the server databases; and laboratory computer interactive means for acquiring and displaying test results from the server databases, reviewing and accepting or rejecting said test results and transmitting said acceptance or rejection to said server databases. 2. An bi-directional, interactive system as in claim 1 wherein said database temporarily stores files consisting of information requested from and being sent to said computer. 3. An bi-directional, interactive system as in claim 1 wherein: said dedicated computer interactive means including a sequence to initialize the interaction between the user and the analysis instrument. 4. An bi-directional, interactive system as in claim 3 wherein said dedicated computer display means displays an initialization screen which once activated commences the sample analysis sequence. 5. An bi-directional, interactive system as in claim 1 further comprising a monitoring station, said monitoring station accessing said databases in a viewing mode without database input capabilities. 