A planarity teaching station includes one or more proximity sensors arranged to reflect light off a surface to determine a plane in which a substrate is positioned by a robotic arm. The plane of the substrate is then automatically adjusted by changing a Z-axis of a universally tiltable robot base or in another manner, based on the data provided by the planarity teaching station. The adjustment of the substrate or end effector plane allows substrates to be removed from and delivered to various cassettes and workstations of a substrate processing system without damage to the substrate caused by end effector misalignment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot alignment system for aligning an end effector of a substrate transporting robot with at least one cassette or workstation, the alignment system comprising: a robot having an end effector for transporting a substrate, the end effector having a Z-axis which is perpendicular to a plane of the substrate when the substrate is mounted on the end effector; an alignment station having a proximity sensing system for sensing information about the proximity of the end effector or a substrate held on the end effector to the alignment station; and means for adjusting the orientation of the Z-axis of the robot end effector in accordance with the information provided by the proximity sensing system to achieve alignment between the robot end effector and the at least one cassette or workstation; wherein the alignment station performs prealigning of the substrate by adjusting a position of the substrate on the robot end effector. 2. An alignment system for aligning an end effector of a substrate transporting robot with at least one cassette or workstation, the alignment system comprising: an alignment surface having a known alignment relationship with the cassette or workstation; a movable robot arm; an end effector located on an end of the robot arm for transporting a substrate, the end effector having a Z-axis which is perpendicular to a plane of the substrate when the substrate is mounted on the effector; a proximity sensing system on the end effector for sensing the proximity of the end effector to the alignment surface; and means for adjusting the orientation of the Z-axis of the robot end effector based on information provided by the proximity sensing system and on the known alignment relationship to achieve alignment between the robot end effector and the at least one cassette or workstation. 3. The alignment system according to claim 2, wherein the proximity sensing system includes three optical proximity sensors arranged on a surface of the end effector. 4. The alignment system according to claim 3, wherein the three optical proximity sensors each independently indicate when the end effector surfaces are within a certain proximity to the alignment surface. 5. The alignment system according to claim 2, wherein the alignment surface is located on one of the cassettes or workstations. 6. The alignment system according to claim 2, further comprising means for prealigning the substrate on the end effector. 7. The alignment according to claim 2, wherein the proximity sensing system is positioned on a top of the end effector. 8. A method of prealigning a substrate on the end effector of a robotic arm mechanism, the method comprising: providing an end effector having at least two proximity sensors; advancing the end effector toward a substrate in a direction which is substantially parallel to a surface of the substrate; activating each of the proximity sensors as the substrate reaches a sensing distance to each of the proximity sensors; calculating a position of the substrate based on information provided by the proximity sensors; and prealigning the substrate on the end effector based on the calculated position of the substrate, the step of prealigning including picking up the substrate with the end effector with a known displacement between a center of the substrate and a center of the end effector. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the end effector is advanced in a plane which is below and substantially parallel with a plane of the substrate. 10. A method of prealigning a substrate on the end effector of a robotic arm mechanism and aligning the end effector with at least one cassette or workstation, the end effector having a Z-axis which is perpendicular to a plane of the substrate when the substrate is mounted on the effector, the method comprising: providing an end effector having at least three proximity sensors; sensing the proximity of the end effector to an alignment surface; advancing the end effector in a direction substantially perpendicular to the alignment surface so as to sense planarity information of the end effector; adjusting the orientation of the Z-axis of the robot end effector based on information provided by the proximity sensors to achieve alignment between the robot end effector and the at least one cassette or workstation; advancing the end effector toward a substrate in a direction which is substantially parallel to a surface of the substrate based on the planarity information; activating each of the proximity sensors as the substrate reaches a sensing distance to each of the proximity sensors; calculating a position of the substrate based on information provided by the proximity sensors; and prealigning the substrate on the end effector based on the calculated position of the substrate. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the step of prealigning includes picking up the substrate with the end effector with a center of the substrate at a center of the end effector. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the alignment surface is a surface of the substrate. 