A method for generating a haptic interactive representation including the steps of defining a haptic interaction space and building a hierarchical construct, for use within the haptic interaction space, using a plurality of underlying constructs. In one embodiment the method includes determining the forces to be applied to a user by generating a haptic interactive, sensing a position of a user in real space, determining a haptic interface location in the haptic interaction space in response to the position of the user in real space and determining whether the virtual object collides with the haptic interface location. The invention also relates to a method for interacting with a haptic interactive representation. The method includes creating a haptic process having the haptic interactive representation, associating a callback with the haptic process, connecting to a second process which interacts with the haptic process and associating the callback which is associated with the haptic process with the second process. The method further includes requesting the callback by the second process, and returning, by the haptic process through the callback to the second process, at least one parameter associated with the haptic interactive representation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for generating a haptic interactive representation, comprising the steps of: defining a haptic interaction space; and building a hierarchical construct for use within said haptic interaction space. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of building a hierarchical construct for use within said haptic interaction space further comprises the step of creating a hierarchical representation of an object using a plurality of underlying constructs. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said hierarchical representation of the object is created in said haptic interaction space. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein said hierarchical representation of the object is created outside of said haptic interaction space and then placed into said haptic interaction space. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein said plurality of underlying constructs include geometric representations. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said geometric representations are of dissimilar form. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said geometric representations are selected from the group consisting of primitive objects, polygonal objects, algebraic objects, constructed solid geometry objects, algebraic surface representations and volumetric object representations. 8. The method of claim 2 wherein said plurality of underlying constructs are selected from the group consisting of translation parameters, rotation parameters, scaling parameters, mass parameters, inertia parameters, velocity parameters, acceleration parameters, angular velocity parameters, angular acceleration parameters, friction parameters, texture parameters, viscosity parameters, compliance parameters and dynamic behavior parameters. 9. A method for determining forces to be applied to a user through a haptic interface, comprising the steps of: (a) generating a haptic interactive representation including a virtual object in a haptic interaction space; (b) sensing a position of a user in real space; (c) determining a haptic interface location in said haptic interaction space in response to said position of said user in real space; (d) determining whether said virtual object collides with said haptic interface location; (e) if said virtual object does not collide with said haptic interface location, calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said haptic interface location; and (f) if said virtual object collides with said haptic interface location, i) determining a proposed surface contact point for said virtual object; and ii) calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said proposed surface contact point. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said proposed surface contact point further comprises the steps of: determining a surface contact point normal at said proposed surface contact point; and calculating said force to be applied to said user in response to said surface contact point normal. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said proposed surface contact point further comprises the steps of: determining a coefficient of friction at said proposed surface contact point; and calculating said force to be applied to said user in response to said coefficient of friction. 12. A method for determining forces to be applied to a user through a haptic interface, comprising the steps of: (a) generating a haptic interactive representation including at least two virtual objects in a haptic interaction space; (b) sensing a position of a user in real space; (c) determining a current haptic interface location in said haptic interaction space in response to said position of said user in real space; (d) determining whether each of said at least two virtual objects collides with said haptic interface location; (e) if none of said at least two virtual objects collide with said haptic interface location, calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said haptic interface location; (f) if only one of said at least two virtual objects collides with said haptic interface location, i) determining a proposed surface contact point for said one of said at least two virtual objects colliding with said haptic interface location; and ii) calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said proposed surface contact point; and (g) if more than one of said at least two virtual objects collide with said haptic interface location, i) determining a proposed surface contact point for each of said at least two virtual objects colliding with said haptic interface location to thereby define a plurality of proposed surface contact points; and ii) calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said plurality of proposed surface contact points. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said plurality of proposed surface contact points further comprises the steps of: determining if at least one of said plurality of proposed surface contact points is not located within any of said at least two virtual objects; if at least one of said plurality of proposed surface contact points is not located within any of said at least two virtual objects, calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said at least one proposed surface contact point not located within any of said at least two virtual objects; if each of said plurality of proposed surface contact points is located within at least one of said at least two virtual objects and if only two of said at least two virtual objects collide with said haptic interface location, calculating said force to be applied to said user in real space in response to a current surface contact point location and said haptic interface location; and if each of said plurality of proposed surface contact points is located within at least one of said at least two virtual objects and if more than two of said at least two virtual objects collide with said haptic interface location, calculating said force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said current surface contact point location. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the step of calculating said force to be applied to said user in real space in response to a current surface contact point location and said haptic interface location further comprises the steps of: determining a surface contact point normal for both of said at least two virtual objects colliding with said haptic interface location; calculating a cross product of said surface contact point normals to determine a vector perpendicular to said surface contact point normals; determining a line passing through said current surface point location and parallel to said vector perpendicular to said surface contact point normals; projecting said haptic interface location onto said line to determine an updated surface contact point location; and calculating said force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said updated surface contact point location. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said proposed surface contact point further comprises the steps of: determining a surface contact point normal for said proposed surface contact point; and calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said surface contact point normal. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said plurality of proposed surface contact points further comprises the steps of: determining a surface contact point normal for each proposed surface contact point in said plurality of proposed surface contact points to thereby define a plurality of surface contact point normals; and calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said plurality of surface contact point normals. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein the step of calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said proposed surface contact point further comprises the steps of: determining a coefficient of friction for said proposed surface contact point; and calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said coefficient of friction. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said plurality of proposed surface contact points further comprises the steps of: determining a coefficient of friction for each proposed surface contact point in said plurality of surface contact points to thereby define a plurality of coefficients of friction; and calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said plurality of coefficients of friction. 19. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of calculating a force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said proposed surface contact point further comprises the steps of: determining a coefficient of friction for a current surface contact point location; calculating a first displacement between said current surface contact point location and said proposed surface contact point location; calculating a second displacement between said proposed surface contact point location and said current haptic interface location; multiplying said second displacement by a coefficient of friction to determine a product; determining whether said first displacement is greater than said product of said second displacement and said coefficient of friction; if said first displacement is not greater than said product, calculating said force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said current surface contact point location; and if said first displacement is greater than said product, i) updating said current surface contact point location to a new surface contact point location in response to said current surface contact point location and said proposed surface contact point location; and ii) calculating said force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said new surface contact point location. 20. A method for interacting with a haptic interactive representation comprising the steps of: creating a haptic process having said haptic interactive representation, said haptic process executing at a first computational rate; associating a callback with said haptic process; connecting to a second process interacting with said haptic process, said second process executing at a second computational rate different from said first computational rate; associating said callback associated with said haptic process with said second process; requesting said callback by said second process; and returning, by said haptic process through said callback to said second process, at least one parameter associated with said haptic interactive representation. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the step of creating a haptic process comprises the steps of: defining a haptic interaction space; and building a hierarchical construct for use within said haptic interaction space. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein the step of connecting to said second process comprises the steps of: establishing a communications link between said haptic process and said second process; and permitting said haptic process and said second process to communicate over said communications link. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein said communications link is a computer network and said second process is active on a node different from said haptic process. 24. The method of claim 20 wherein said second process is a graphics process and said at least one parameter comprises graphical data. 25. The method of claim 20 wherein said second process is a second haptic interactive process and said at least one parameter is comprises haptic data. 