Solderable structures, and related methods for making them, can provide thermal conductivity and/or electrical isolation for electronic devices soldered to the structures. Each of the structures includes a solderable material bonded to a heat sink by a thermally-activated bonding material which provides thermal conductivity between the solderable material and the heat sink and which can be configured as a three-layer bonding film to also provide electrical isolation. The structures can be produced in a highly-automated, rapid way without the need for standard mounting hardware and mechanical preparation of the heat sinks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for creating a solderable structure, comprising: (A) providing a heat sink, a solderable material, and a thermally-activated bonding material, the bonding material comprising polyimide disposed between two layers of thermoplastic polyimide; (B) applying heat to the heat sink to raise its temperature; and (C) after step (B), disposing the solderable material onto the heated heat sink with the bonding material interposed between the heated heat sink and the solderable material. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising, after step (C), pressing the solderable material and the heat sink together with the bonding material interposed to create the solderable structure in which the bonding material bonds the solderable material to the heat sink. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the pressing step includes applying heat while pressing the solderable material and the heat sink together with the bonding material interposed. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising, after the pressing step, soldering a power semiconductor device to the solderable material. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein step (A) comprises providing the bonding material as a coating on the solderable material. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein step (A) comprises providing the heat sink which comprises aluminum and providing the coated solderable material which comprises copper coated with the bonding material. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein step (A) comprises providing the heat sink which is unsolderable. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein step (A) comprises providing the heat sink which comprises aluminum treated to prevent oxidation. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein step (C) comprises, after step (B), placing the solderable material in a predetermined orientation onto the heated heat sink with the bonding material interposed. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein step (A) comprises providing the bonding material which is thermally-conductive such that heat can dissipate from the solderable material to the heat sink. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein step (A) comprises providing the bonding material which is electrically isolating and thermally-conductive such that heat but not electrical current can flow from the solderable material to the heat sink. 12. A method for creating a solderable structure, comprising: (A) providing a heat sink, a solderable material, and a thermally-activated bonding material; (B) applying heat to the heat sink to raise its temperature; and (C) disposing the solderable material onto the heated heat sink with the bonding material interposed between the heated heat sink and the solderable material. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising, after step (C), pressing the solderable material and the heat sink together with the bonding material interposed to create the solderable structure in which the bonding material bonds the solderable material to the heat sink. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the pressing step includes applying heat while pressing the solderable material and the heat sink together with the bonding material interposed. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising, after the pressing step, soldering a power semiconductor device to the solderable material. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein step (A) comprises providing the bonding material as a coating on the solderable material. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein step (A) comprises providing the heat sink which comprises aluminum and providing the coated solderable material which comprises copper coated with thermoplastic polyimide. 18. The method of claim 12 wherein step (A) comprises providing the heat sink which is unsolderable. 19. The method of claim 12 wherein step (A) comprises providing the heat sink which comprises aluminum treated to prevent oxidation. 20. The method of claim 12 wherein step (C) comprises placing the solderable material in a predetermined orientation onto the heated heat sink with the bonding material interposed. 21. The method of claim 12 wherein step (A) comprises providing the bonding material which is thermally-conductive such that heat can dissipate from the solderable material to the heat sink. 22. The method of claim 12 wherein step (A) further comprises providing a bonding film which comprises a dielectric material disposed between two layers of the bonding material. 23. The method of claim 12 wherein step (C) comprises disposing the solderable material onto the heated heat sink with the bonding film interposed between the heated heat sink and the solderable material. 24. The method of claim 13 further comprising, after step (C), pressing the solderable material and the heat sink together with the bonding film interposed to create the solderable structure in which the bonding film bonds the solderable material to the heat sink. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the pressing step includes applying heat while pressing the solderable material and the heat sink together with the bonding film interposed. 26. The method of claim 25 further comprising, after the pressing step, soldering a power semiconductor device to the solderable material. 27. The method of claim 22 wherein step (A) comprises providing the bonding film as a three-layer film on the solderable material. 28. The method of claim 22 wherein step (A) comprises providing the heat sink which comprises aluminum and providing the filmed solderable material which comprises copper having thereon the three-layer film which comprises polyimide disposed between two layers of thermoplastic polyimide. 29. The method of claim 22 wherein step (A) comprises providing the heat sink which is unsolderable. 30. The method of claim 22 wherein step (A) comprises providing the heat sink which comprises aluminum treated to prevent oxidation. 31. The method of claim 22 wherein step (C) comprises placing the solderable material in a predetermined orientation onto the heated heat sink with the bonding film interposed. 32. The method of claim 22 wherein step (A) comprises providing the bonding film which is electrically isolating and thermally-conductive such that heat but not electrical current can flow from the solderable material to the heat sink. 