The protruding edge of a plastic sheet in a laminated safety glass panel can be removed, or trimmed, by moving the panel edgewise over a rotating grinding wheel, such that fragments generated by the wheel are directed away from the feed path of the panel. The grinding wheel is resiliently supported by an air cylinder that maintains a desired contact pressure between the edge surface of the wheel and the protruding edge of the plastic sheet.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method of removing a protruding edge of an elastomeric-plastic lamination in an automotive window safety panel, wherein said lamination is sandwiched between two glass panes to form the safety panel; comprising the steps of: a.) orienting the safety panel to a grinding wheel that has a rotational plane and a peripheral cutting edge normal to said rotational plane, said orienting step being carried out so that the plane of the safety panel is normal to the rotational plane of the grinding wheel; b.) rotating the grinding wheel; c.) passing the safety panel transversely across the edge of the grinding wheel, while maintaining the plane of the panel normal to the rotational plane of the grinding wheel, so that the protruding edge of the elastomeric-plastic lamination is removed from the panel by the cutting action of the wheel edge without affecting the two glass panes; and d.) resiliently biasing the grinding wheel toward the safety panel while the panel is passing transversely across the edge of the wheel, so that the wheel has continuous pressure contact with the protruding edge of the elastomeric-plastic lamination. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the biasing step is carried out by varying the air pressure supplied to a fluid cylinder that operatively supports the grinding wheel. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the biasing step further comprises the step of sensing the pressure of the grinding wheel on the edge of the elastomeric-plastic lamination, and employing the sensed contact pressure to control the air pressure supplied to the fluid cylinder. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the biasing step is carried out so that there is a substantially constant pressure between the grinding wheel and the edge of the elastomeric-plastic lamination while the safety panel is passing transversely across the edge of the wheel. 5. The method of claim 1, and further comprising the step of: (e) disposing said grinding wheel in a vacuum chamber, so that plastic fragments generated by the grinding wheel are captured in the vacuum chamber. 6. The method of claim 1, and further comprising the steps of sensing the variations in the diameter of the grinding wheel due to wear, and using the sensed wheel diameter variations to regulate the rotational velocity of the grinding wheel so as to maintain a relatively constant wheel edge speed in spite of variations in the grinding wheel diameter. 