A semiconductor plating bowl which includes a shield on a consumable anode. The shield is preferably made from a dielectric material, such as a plastic. The shield is placed in the area upon which flowing plating fluid would otherwise impinge upon the processing workpiece. The shield has the surprising benefit of reducing the amount of organic additives consumed in the plating process. This is believed to occur because films that otherwise may form on the anode are not disrupted by the flow of plating liquids thereover.
Claims We claim: 1. A plating bowl, comprising: a process bowl for holding electroplating solution supplied thereto through at least one inlet; a consumable anode disposed within the process bowl in a fluid flow path of electroplating solution flowing from the at least one inlet; an anode shield disposed with respect to the anode, the anode shield having a size and shape to substantially protect the anode from the direct impingement of a flow of electroplating solution from the at least one inlet adapted for directing substantially all of the fluid contacting the anode shield around an outer periphery of the consumable anode. 2. The plating bowl of claim 1 wherein said anode shield is made from a dielectric material. 3. The plating bowl of claim 1 wherein said anode is mounted within a cup assembly disposed within said process bowl. 4. The plating bowl of claim 1 wherein said anode shield is fastened to the consumable anode using fasteners. 5. The plating bowl of claim 1 wherein said anode shield is fastened to the consumable anode using fasteners, said fasteners being made from a dielectric material. 6. The plating bowl of claim 1 wherein: said anode shield is fastened to the consumable anode using fasteners; said fasteners and said anode shield being made from dielectric materials. 7. A method for plating materials, comprising: providing a flow of electroplating solution from at least one inlet toward a consumable anode; shielding the consumable anode with at least one anode shield, said anode shield having a size and shape so as to substantially cover at least those portions of the consumable anode which would otherwise be subject to direct impingement of electroplating solution from the at least one inlet, by directing substantially all of the fluid contacting the anode shield around an outer periphery of the consumable anode. 8. A plating bowl, comprising: a process bowl for holding electroplating solution, including one or more openings through which flowing electroplating solution is supplied; a consumable anode mounted within the process bowl in the path of the flowing electroplating solution; and an anode shield disposed with respect to the consumable anode in the path of the flowing electroplating solution between the consumable anode and the at least one of the one or more openings, adapted for protecting the anode from direct impingement of a flow of electroplating solution and adapted for directing substantially all of the flow of the electroplating solution around an outer periphery of the consumable anode. 9. The plating bowl of claim 8, wherein said anode shield is fastened to the consumable anode. 10. The plating bowl of claim 8, wherein said anode shield is made from a dielectric material. 11. The plating bowl of claim 8, wherein said anode shield is mounted to the backside of the consumable anode, exposed toward the one or more openings supplying the flowing electroplating solution. 