An arc welding torch for robotic applications having sensing capabilities to provide intelligent diagnostics monitoring of the welding process in real time. A plurality of modular sensors are integrated with the torch to provide real-time monitoring of wire speed, arc voltage, gas flow, seam-tracking, welding current temperature and contact tip wear. The torch includes a contact tip wear sensor for sensing the wearing of the tip during the welding process. The shielding gas flow is measured by a gas flow sensor mounted between the main housing and the gooseneck. A seam-tracking sensor is mounted on the outside of the housing to detect the position of the seam to be welded. The speed of the consumable electrode is measured by a wire speed sensor module. To ensure that operating temperatures of components near the arc region are within predetermined ranges for optimum performance of the torch, temperature sensors are mounted on the torch. An arc voltage sensor is located in the housing of the torch to provide a more accurate measurement of the arc voltage near the arc region. Lastly, a current sensor is located between the main housing and the gooseneck to measure the current flow through the torch. All of the above sensors may be operatively connected to a weld controller which analyze the information received from each sensor to maintain an optimum welding process.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An arc welding torch for robotic applications comprising a main housing, a gooseneck, a contact tip assembly and a plurality of different welding operational parameter sensors wherein said sensors are mounted on said main housing, said gooseneck, or said contact tip assembly providing simultaneous real-time monitoring of a plurality of different welding operational parameters during a welding process. 2. A welding torch of claim 1 wherein the sensors are operatively connected to a weld controller that analyzes the sensed welding operational parameters and controls the welding process in response to the sensed welding operational parameters. 3. An arc welding torch for robotic applications comprising: a contact tip wear sensor for providing a contact tip wear signal indicating the deterioration of a contact tip of the torch during the current welding process; a gas flow sensor for providing a gas flow signal indicating a gas flow rate through a housing of the torch; a temperature sensor for providing a temperature signal indicating a temperature of front-end components of the torch; a wire speed sensor for providing a wire speed signal indicating a speed at which an electrode is feed through the torch; and a current sensor for providing a welding current signal indicating the current passed through the torch; said sensors being mounted on said arc welding torch providing simultaneous real-time monitoring of a plurality of different welding operational parameters during a welding process. 4. A welding torch as in claim 3 further including a seam-tracking sensor wherein said seam-tracking sensor is one of a laser, optical, and touch seam-tracking sensor. 5. A welding torch as in claim 3 wherein the temperature sensor includes a plurality of thermocouples mounted on the contact tip of the torch. 6. A welding torch as in claim 3 wherein the wire speed sensor includes a plurality of encoders mounted within the housing of the torch and a drive-roll mechanism that spins as the consumable electrode passes through. 7. A welding torch as in claim 3 wherein the gas flow sensor triggers an alarm when the gas flow rate falls outside a predetermined range. 8. A welding torch as in claim 3 wherein the contact tip wear sensor measures the deterioration of the contact tip by determining electrical contact resistance between contact tip and consumable electrode. 9. A welding torch as in claim 8 wherein the electrical contact resistance is determined by dividing a voltage at an interface between the contact tip and the electrode by the welding current. 10. A welding torch as in claim 3 wherein the current sensor measures the electrical current flow through the torch. 11. A welding torch as in claim 3 wherein the contact tip wear, gas flow, wire speed, welding current, and temperature sensors are operatively connected to a weld controller which analyzes sensor output signals produced by said sensor and controls the welding process in response to the sensor output signals. 