A processor for processing integrated circuit wafers, semiconductor substrates, data disks and similar units requiring very low contamination levels. The processor has an interface section which receives wafers in standard wafer carriers. The interface section transfers the wafers from carriers onto novel trays for improved processing. The interface unit can hold multiple groups of multiple trays. A conveyor having an automated arm assembly moves wafers supported on a tray. The conveyor moves the trays from the interface along a track to several processing stations. The processing stations are accessed from an enclosed area adjoining the interface section.
Claims We claim: 1. A semiconductor processing system comprising: an enclosure; an interface section and a processing section within the enclosure; a processing station in the processing section; a guide track within the enclosure extending from the interface section to the processing station in the processing section; a conveyor carriage supported on the guide track and movable along the guide track from the interface section to the processing station in the processing section; and an arm assembly attached to the conveyor carriage. 2. The processing system of claim 1 further comprising a frame attached to the enclosure and wherein the guide track comprises upper and lower guide bars attached to the frame. 3. The processing system of claim 2 further comprising a carriage base supported on the upper and lower guide bars, and a base subassembly joined to the carriage base and to the arm assembly. 4. The processing system of claim of claim 3 further comprising an arm base section joined to the base subassembly, a pair of upper arms pivotably attached to the arm base section, a pair of forearms pivotably attached to the upper arms, and an engagement tool pivotably attached to the forearms. 5. The processing system of claim 3 wherein the arm assembly comprises a shoulder joint on the base subassembly, an upper arm having a lower end joined to the shoulder joint, and having an upper end joined to an elbow joint, a forearm having a lower end joined to the elbow joint and an upper end joined to a wrist joint, and an engagement tool attached to the wrist joint. 6. The processing system of claim 4 further comprising an upper arm drive motor linked to the upper arms, a forearm drive motor linked to the upper arms and to the forearms, and an engagement tool motor linked to the forearms and to the engagement tool. 7. The processing system of claim 1 further comprising a linear magnetic motor associated with the guide track for moving the conveyor carriage carrying the arm assembly along the guide track. 8. The processing system of claim 7 wherein the motor comprises a linear brushless direct current motor. 9. The processing system of claim 1 wherein the processing station comprises a fluid processing chamber including a bowl and a rotor within the bowl and a door at a front end of the bowl. 10. The processing system of claim 9 wherein the rotor is rotatable about an approximately horizontal axis. 11. The processing system of claim 1 wherein the processing station is located vertically above the guide track and the conveyor carriage. 12. The processing system of claim 1 further comprising means for moving the arm assembly in a vertical direction and in a horizontal direction perpendicular to the guide track, so that the arm assembly can reach up and into the processing station. 13. A method of processing semiconductor wafers and similar articles comprising the steps of: loading a batch of vertically oriented articles into an interface section of a processing system; engaging the batch of articles on a mechanical arm; transporting the batch of articles laterally to a position in alignment with a processing station; placing the batch of articles into the processing station, while constantly maintaining the batch of articles in a substantially vertical orientation; processing the articles by applying at least a fluid to the articles; and removing the articles from the processing station and returning them to the interface section, while continuing to constantly maintain the articles in the substantially vertical orientation. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of spinning the articles within the processing station. 15. A method for processing semiconductor wafers or similar articles comprising the steps of: opening an enclosure door to provide access into the enclosure; loading a wafer carrier containing a batch of wafers into enclosure by moving through the enclosure doorway; closing the enclosure door, to provide a substantially enclosed working space within the enclosure; lifting the batch of wafers out of the wafer carrier; placing the batch of wafers into a carriage; conveying the batch of wafers from the carriage into a processing station; and processing the batch wafers. 