A system for a clinical lab that is capable of automatically processing, including sorting, of multiple specimen containers. The system comprises a central controller, a workstation, one or more analyzers, and an automated centrifuge. The workstation has automatic detectors for detecting the presence of a holder holding specimen containers. The workstation has a bar code reader for reading bar codes on the containers. The system has a transport subsystem, preferably a workstation robotic arm and an analyzer robotic arm for transporting the specimen containers, moving them to and from the workstation, to and from the analyzers, and to and from the centrifuge. The centrifuge is loaded with buckets containing specimen containers. The workstation can be provided with a balance system for balancing the weight of the buckets used. The workstation can also have a decapper for automatically removing caps from the specimen containers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for automatically processing multiple containers containing specimens, at least some of the containers having a cap, each of the containers having container identification indicia thereon, the containers being held in a holder, the system comprising: (a) a central controller comprising (i) memory storage and (ii) a data input element for inputting instructions for processing of each container according to the container identification indicia, the processing instructions being stored in memory; (b) detectors for detecting the presence of a holder in the system, the detectors having an output element for signaling the presence of a holder to the central controller; (c) an indicia reader for reading the container identification indicia, the reader having an output element for providing the container identification indicia to the central controller; (d) a container sorting system comprising (i) a data input element in communication with the central controller for receiving instructions from the central controller for sorting containers for selective processing according to the processing instructions stored in the central controller memory storage, and (ii) a plurality of sort sites for placement of containers according to their processing instructions; (e) a centrifugation system for centrifugation of selected specimens, the centrifugation system comprising: (i) receptacles for receiving multiple containers; and (ii) a centrifuge for simultaneously centrifuging multiple receptacles, the centrifuge having a motor, a centrifuge controller for stopping the centrifuge at selected positions for automated removal of receptacles from the centrifuge in response to signals from the central controller, a lid with a closed position and an open position, and a lid drive for opening and closing the lid in response to instructions from the central controller; (f) a receptacle balance system selectively locating individual containers in the receptacles for balancing receptacle weight for the centrifuge; (g) a decapper system for selectively decapping containers; (h) at least one analyzer for selectively analyzing the specimens; and (i) a transport system for (i) transporting containers to and from the centrifuge receptacles, the analyzer, and the decapper system, (ii) transporting receptacles to and from the receptacle balance system and the centrifugation system, and (iii) transporting containers in the sorting system, the transport system having a controller in communication with the central controller so that the central controller can control the transport system. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein each container is processed by at least one of the following based on instructions in the central controller: (a) sorting only; (b) sorting and centrifugation; (c) sorting, centrifugation, and decapping; (d) sorting, centrifugation, decapping and analysis; (e) sorting, decapping and analysis; and (f) sorting and analysis. 3. The system of claim 2, further comprising a process supervisor having: (a) a programmed detect input step for determining introduction of containers at an input location on the workstation; (b) a container select step in which detected containers are selected for processing; (c) an identification step for defining process components for each selected container according to the container identification indicia, and (d) a process select step for initiating the defined process components being one or more of sorting, centrifugation, decapping, and analysis. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein each analyzer comprises: (a) a mechanism for selectively performing at least two different analyses on a specimen; (b) an analyzer controller in communication with the central controller so that the central controller can instruct the analyzer as to what analysis to perform for each specimen; and (c) an output system for providing analysis results to memory of the central controller. 5. The system of claim 1, comprising two analyzers. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the output system of each analyzer has an output element for providing analyzer availability information to the central controller, and the central controller has means for selectively determining which analyzer each specimen that is to undergo analysis is analyzed by based on the availability information. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the specimens are biological specimens. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the specimens are human blood samples. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system comprises a first robotic arm for transporting containers to and from the analyzer, and a second robotic arm. 10. The system of claim 9, further comprising a shield system for selectively blocking operator access to the workstation, the shield system including a partition that encloses the top of the workstation and having an opening for passage of the analyzer robotic arm, an enlargement for passage of receptacles to the centrifuge, and an access door being operable in response to instruction from the central controller following operator input. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the access door is a sash door having an actuator being responsive to the central controller, the shield system further comprising an operator input device for signaling access requests to the central controller, the controller being operative for appropriately inhibiting operation of the workstation robotic arm and then activating the actuator for opening the door. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the actuator is a pneumatic actuator, the shield system further comprising a lock coupled to the access door, the lock being released in response to instruction from the central controller prior to activation of the actuator. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the system includes multiple input locations for placement of the containers, each of the input locations having a detector, at least one of the locations being for priority containers, wherein the detector output element signals the presence of priority containers to the central processor, and wherein the central processor provides instructions for priority processing of priority containers. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the container holders have holder identification indicia thereon, and wherein the indicia reader can read the holder identification indicia, the reader output element providing the holder identification indicia to the central controller for tracking containers according to their respective holders. 15. A system for automatically preparing multiple containers containing specimens, comprising: (a) a centrifugation system for centrifugation of selected specimens, the centrifugation system comprising: (i) receptacles for receiving multiple containers; and (ii) a centrifuge for simultaneously centrifuging multiple receptacles, the centrifuge having a motor, a centrifuge controller for stopping the centrifuge at selected positions for automated removal of receptacles from the centrifuge in response to signals from the central controller, a lid with a closed position and an open position, and a lid drive for opening and closing the lid in response to instructions from the central controller; (b) a receptacle balance system selectively locating individual containers in the receptacles for balancing receptacle weight for the centrifuge; and (c) a transport system for (i) transporting containers to and from the centrifuge receptacles, and (ii) transporting receptacles to and from the receptacle balance system and the centrifugation system. 16. The system of claim 15, for containers including capped containers and further comprising, a decapper system for selectively decapping containers, wherein the transport system transports centrifuged containers from the centrifugation system to the decapper system. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the receptacle balance system comprises a balance controller for selectively depositing containers in cavities of centrifuge receptacles, the balance controller being operative for selecting a loading pattern from a set of satisfactory loading patterns in response to a number of containers to be centrifuged in relation to a total container capacity of the centrifuge, and loading the containers into the receptacles in accordance with the selected pattern. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein the receptacle balance system comprises a scale for receiving receptacles to be loaded into the centrifuge, a balance controller for selectively depositing containers in cavities of centrifuge receptacles while correlating incremental weight changes as measured by the scale with the receptacles of each deposit for equalizing weight in pairs of the receptacles. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the balance controller is additionally operative correlating incremental weight changes as measured by the scale with the locations of each deposit in the receptacles for symmetrically loading weight in each receptacle. 20. The system of claim 18, wherein the receptacle balance system further comprises a plurality of dummy loads, the balance controller being further operative for selectively depositing dummy loads in cavities of centrifuge receptacles while further correlating incremental weight changes as measured by the scale with the locations of each deposit for more accurately equalizing the weight in the pairs of the receptacles. 