An acoustic touch sensing device, comprising a substrate, having a surface; and an acoustic wave transducer, transducing a bulk wave in said substrate propagating through said substrate along an axis intersecting said surface, wherein energy of said bulk wave is coupled to a wave having a converted wave mode with appreciable energy at said surface and propagating along said surface. The device may include a set of scattering centers to couple the bulk wave to a Rayleigh wave or plate wave. The Rayleigh wave or plate wave may be dispersed over a region of the substrate, and analyzed to detect a perturbation indicative of a position of touch.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An acoustic touch sensing device, comprising: (a) a substrate, having a surface; (b) an acoustic wave transducer, coupling to a first wave, being a bulk wave, propagating through said substrate along an axis intersecting said surface; (c) a diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler, coupling energy of said first wave to a second wave having a converted wave mode with appreciable energy at said surface and propagating along an axis parallel to said surface; and (d) means for detecting a perturbation of the energy of said second wave. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein said acoustic wave transducer comprises means for propagating bulk waves in an oblique direction with respect to said surface. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein said acoustic wave transducer couples said first wave directly to said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein said acoustic wave transducer couples said first wave to said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler through at least one acoustic reflection in the path of said first wave. 5. The device according to claim 1, wherein said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler couples to a third wave comprising energy of said first wave having a different wave mode than said first wave. 6. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a second acoustic wave transducer, coupling to an eighth wave, being a bulk wave, propagating through said substrate along an axis intersecting said surface, said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler coupling energy of said eighth wave to a ninth wave, distinct from said second wave, having a converted wave mode with appreciable energy at said surface and propagating along an axis parallel to said surface. 7. The device according to claim 1, wherein said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler comprises a set of scattering centers. 8. The device according to claim 7, wherein said set of scattering centers are disposed on said surface. 9. The device according to claim 1, wherein said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler comprises a set of spaced elements having an acoustic characteristic differing from surrounding areas of said substrate. 10. The device according to claim 9, wherein said elements comprise regularly spaced elongated linear grates. 11. The device according to claim 9, wherein said elements comprise regularly spaced elongated curved grates. 12. The device according to claim 1, wherein said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler comprises a periodic acoustic perturbation of said substrate. 13. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a set of elements disposed along at least a portion of a path of said second wave for reflecting a portion of the energy of said second wave as a set of fourth waves, each propagating parallel to said surface along an axis different than an axis of propagation of said second wave. 14. The device according to claim 13, wherein said set of fourth waves have distinct characteristic time delays which vary incrementally and monotonically. 15. The device according to claim 14, further comprising a set of elements disposed along a path intersecting said axes of said set of fourth waves, reflecting at least a portion of the energy of said set of fourth waves toward a common receiver, said common receiver producing a signal related to an energy of said reflected portion of said set of fourth waves. 16. The device according to claim 15, wherein said means for detecting a perturbation of the energy of said second wave comprises means for analyzing a signal from said common receiver to detect a perturbation of energy received thereby. 17. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of said acoustic wave transducers, each coupling to a different bulk wave propagating through said substrate along an axis intersecting said surface, the energy of said different bulk waves each being coupled to a wave having a converted wave mode with appreciable energy at said surface and propagating along an axis parallel to said surface by a diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler. 18. The device according to claim 17, wherein at least two of said converted wave modes coupled to said different bulk waves propagate along parallel paths. 19. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a wave disperser and a wave condenser, each sequentially disposed along a different a portion of a path of acoustic energy of said wave having appreciable energy at said surface, said wave disperser and said wave condenser being separated by a portion of said surface adapted for touch sensing. 20. The device according to claim 19, further comprising a second acoustic wave transducer, coupling to a fifth wave, being a bulk wave, propagating through said substrate along an axis intersecting said surface, said fifth wave being coupled to a sixth wave having a converted wave mode with appreciable energy at said surface and propagating along an axis parallel to said surface; said second wave having a path including at least a portion of said wave disperser and said sixth wave having a path including at least a portion of said condenser. 21. The device according to claim 1, wherein said detecting means detects a location of said perturbation. 22. The device according to claim 1, wherein said surface is planar. 23. The device according to claim 1, wherein said surface is smooth and nonplanar, said axis of propagation of said second wave locally varying to conform to said surface. 24. The device according to claim 1, wherein said acoustic wave transducer comprises a flat acoustic coupling surface, said flat acoustic coupling surface being inclined with respect to a portion of said surface intersected by said first wave. 25. The device according to claim 1, wherein said acoustic wave transducer comprises a piezoelectric element. 26. The device according to claim 1, wherein said acoustic wave transducer comprises a diffractive acoustic wave coupler, coupling a seventh acoustic wave with said first wave. 27. The device according to claim 1, wherein said first wave has an axis of propagation whose projection onto said surface differs from an axis of propagation of said second wave. 28. The device according to claim 1, wherein said first wave has one or more oscillation components selected from the group consisting of a pressure mode, a vertical shear mode and a horizontal shear mode. 29. The device according to claim 1, wherein said second wave has one or more oscillation components selected from the group consisting of longitudinal mode, horizontally polarized shear mode and vertically polarized shear mode. 30. The device according to claim 1, wherein said second wave comprises a Rayleigh-type wave. 31. The device according to claim 1, wherein said second wave comprises a Love-type wave. 32. The device according to claim 1, wherein said substrate has inhomogeneous acoustic properties. 33. The device according to claim 1, wherein said substrate has comprises layers parallel to said surface having different acoustic properties. 34. The device according to claim 1, wherein said first wave propagates along an axis having an inclination of at least .vertline..pi./8 .vertline. radians with respect to a plane tangent to said surface at said intersection. 35. The device according to claim 1, wherein said first wave comprises a shear-mode component and has a projection of an axis of propagation having an angle whose magnitude is at least 45.degree. with respect to an axis of propagation of said second wave. 36. The device according to claim 1, wherein said acoustic wave transducer couples to a pressure-mode bulk wave and said second wave comprises a horizontally polarized shear wave. 37. The device according to claim 1, wherein substantially only said first wave propagating parallel to said axis intersecting said surface satisfies the horizontal components of the Bragg scattering conditions of said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler at a particular acoustic frequency. 38. The device according to claim 1, wherein said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler comprises a set of elements formed on said surface from a composition comprising glass frit. 39. The device according to claim 1, wherein said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler comprises a set of elements formed on said surface from a composition comprising a polymer matrix. 40. The device according to claim 1, wherein said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler comprises a set of elements formed on said surface from a dense inorganic composition filled polymer. 41. The device according to claim 1, wherein said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler comprises a set of grooves formed in said surface. 42. The device according to claim 1, wherein said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler serves as an acoustic lens. 43. The device according to claim 1, wherein said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler satisfies a Bragg scattering condition for coupling at least two bulk waves to at least two useful waves having a converted wave mode, each with appreciable energy at said surface and propagating along an axis parallel to said surface. 44. The device according to claim 1, wherein said acoustic wave transducer couples to said first wave in said substrate having an axis of propagation substantially normal to said surface. 45. The device according to claim 1, wherein said first wave resonates in said substrate. 46. The device according to claim 1, wherein a portion of an acoustic wave path includes partial acoustic reflections having reflected angles totaling about an integral multiple of 2 .pi. radians. 47. The device according to claim 1, wherein said acoustic wave transducer is coupled to a signal and said substrate exhibits an acoustic resonance at a frequency, said acoustic wave transducer being coupled to said acoustic resonance at said frequency, thereby to substantially achieve a relative maximum acoustic power coupling efficiency between said first wave and said signal for a given signal amplitude. 48. The device according to claim 1, wherein said substrate is a material selected from the group consisting of soda-lime glass, borosilicate glass, a crown glass, a barium-containing glass, a strontium-containing glass, a boron-containing glass, a glass laminate capable of supporting Love wave propagation; a ceramic, aluminum, a coated aluminum substrate capable of supporting Love wave propagation, and a low-acoustic-loss polymer. 49. The device according to claim 1, further comprising means for reflecting portions of said second wave as an incrementally varying set of waves comprising an array of elements formed during an operation integral with an operation forming said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler. 50. The device according to claim 1, further comprising means for selectively reflecting portions of said second wave as a set of dispersed waves propagating through said substrate, said selective reflecting means having a set of Fourier components which poorly couples to unconverted portions of said first bulk wave. 51. The device according to claim 1, wherein said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler comprises at least one element having an asymmetric profile along an axis of propagation of said second wave. 52. The device according to claim 1, wherein said acoustic wave transducer comprises a ceramic piezoelectric element. 53. The device according to claim 1, wherein said acoustic wave transducer comprises a polymer piezoelectric element. 54. The device according to claim 1, wherein said acoustic wave transducer is mounted to said substrate at a region mechanically protected on at least two sides by said substrate. 55. A substrate for an acoustic sensing device, having a region, and a surface, comprising: (a) an acoustic transducer, coupling to a bulk wave in said substrate having an axis of propagation intersecting said surface; (b) a diffractive acoustic wave mode coupling structure, formed proximate to said surface, adapted to convert acoustic wave energy of the bulk wave to a wave propagating along an axis parallel to said surface; and (c) means for detecting acoustic converted acoustic wave energy in a manner adapted for determining a position of a perturbation thereof. 56. The substrate according to claim 55, wherein said detecting means comprises means for coupling the converted acoustic wave energy with an incrementally varying set of dispersed waves propagating through said region. 57. The substrate according to claim 55, further comprising a plurality of acoustic transducers coupled respectively to a bulk wave in said substrate, each bulk wave having an axis of propagation intersecting said surface at an incrementally varying offset. 58. A method of sensing touch on a substrate having a surface, comprising the steps of: transducing a bulk wave in the substrate propagating through said substrate along an axis intersecting the surface; diffractively coupling energy of the bulk wave to a wave having a converted wave mode with appreciable energy at the surface and propagating along an axis parallel to the surface; and detecting a perturbation of the wave having a converted wave mode. 59. The method according to claim 58, wherein a mode of the bulk wave is converted between said transducing and said diffractively coupling. 60. The method according to claim 58, further comprising the step of reflecting the bulk wave between said transducing and said diffractively coupling. 61. The method according to claim 58, further comprising the step of focusing the wave having a converted wave mode. 62. The method according to claim 58, further comprising the step of reflecting a portion of the energy of the wave having a converted wave mode as a set of temporally varying dispersed waves, each propagating parallel to said surface along a redirected axis. 63. The method according to claim 62, further comprising the step of reflecting at least a portion of the energy of the temporally varying dispersed waves toward a common receiver. 64. The method according to claim 63, further comprising the step of analyzing a perturbation of the energy received by the common receiver. 65. The method according to claim 58, further comprising the step of resonating the bulk wave in the substrate. 66. The method according to claim 58, further comprising the steps of dispersing the wave having a converted wave mode over a region adapted for sensing touch and condensing the dispersed wave after traversing the region adapted for sensing touch. 67. The method according to claim 66, further comprising the step of diffractively coupling at least a portion of the condensed dispersed wave to a bulk wave and transducing the coupled condensed dispersed wave. 68. The method according to claim 58, further comprising the step of analyzing a position of the detected perturbation. 69. The method according to claim 58, wherein said energy of the bulk wave is scattered as a plurality of wave modes by at least one scattering center, including the wave having a converted wave mode, further comprising the step of selectively distinguishing the wave having a converted wave mode. 70. The method according to claim 69, wherein the wave having a converted wave mode is selectively distinguished by an interaction of the acoustic energy of the bulk wave with the at least one scattering center and an additional scattering center oriented with respect to the scattering center to selectively generate acoustic wave interference. 71. The device according to claim 1, wherein an acoustic wave path includes partial acoustic reflections such that a delayed portion of the acoustic wave is essentially superposed on a portion of the acoustic wave. 72. The device according to claim 1, wherein said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler has a low conversion efficiency and said bulk wave resonates in said substrate in a region of said diffractive acoustic wave mode coupler. 73. The device according to claim 1, wherein said second wave has a nominal touch sensing path and said detecting means is responsive to a parasitic wave selected from the group consisting of said first wave, said second wave traveling outside said nominal touch sensing path and a third wave derived from said first wave or said second wave and having a wave-mode differing therefrom, further comprising means for reducing an interference of said third wave with a detection of said perturbation of the energy of said parasitic wave. 