An electroplating apparatus comprising a plating tank containing electroplating solution, one or more substrates to be electroplated, and an electrical contact mechanism. The electrical contact mechanism comprises a first set of one or more conductive contacts electrically connected to a power supply and a second set of one or more conductive contacts mounted to a substrate carrier. The second set of contacts wipes against the first set of contacts when the carrier is maneuvered into and out of a plating position. At least one of the first and second sets of contacts is spring-biased. The first set of contacts may comprise one or more inverted-L-shaped, pivotable contacts, each mounted within a notch in a contact block.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An electroplating apparatus adapted to electroplate at least one substrate, the apparatus comprising: a plating tank adapted to contain electroplating solution; a flybar adapted to maneuver the substrate into and out of a plating position; and an electrical contact mechanism having at least one second conductive contact not mounted to the flybar, and at least one first conductive contact mounted to the flybar and positioned (a) to touch said at least one second conductive contact with said flybar in the plating position and (b) to wipe against said at least one second conductive contact as said flybar is maneuvered into and out of said plating position, wherein at least one of said at least one first and second conductive contacts is connected to a power supply and at least one of said at least one first and second conductive contacts is spring-biased. 2. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus is adapted to electroplate the substrate with a thin film. 3. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an acidic electroplating solution in said plating tank. 4. An electroplating apparatus adapted to electroplate at least one substrate, the apparatus comprising: a plating tank adapted to contain electroplating solution; a contact block having at least one notch therein; at least one pivotable contact, each pivotable contact pivotably mounted within a notch in said contact block and having a wiping component with an interior side and an exterior side; at least one spring, each spring mounted within a notch in said contact block between said contact block and the interior side of the wiping component of said pivotable contact, said spring positioned to bias said wiping component away from said contact block; and an electrical contact mechanism having (a) at least one second conductive contact, and (b) at least one first conductive contact mounted to a substrate carrier, said substrate carrier adapted to maneuver said substrate into and out of a plating position, said at least one first conductive contact positioned to touch said at least one second conductive contact with said substrate carrier in the plating position and to wipe against said at least one second conductive contact as said substrate carrier is maneuvered into and out of said plating position; wherein at least one of said at least one first and second conductive contacts is connected to a power supply and at least one of said at least one first and second conductive contacts is spring-biased. 5. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said plating tank has opposite sides, each side having one of said contact blocks mounted thereon, and said substrate carrier further comprises a flybar having opposite ends and two of said first conductive contacts, one of said first conductive contacts mounted on each of said opposite ends of said flybar and positioned to wipe against the exterior side of the wiping component of one of said pivotable contacts and to compress said spring as said flybar is lowered into said plating position. 6. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said flybar is adapted to be raised and lowered automatically. 7. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said flybar is adapted to be maneuvered by a robotic handling device. 8. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 4, further comprising a pin attached to said contact block upon which said at least one pivotable contact is adapted to pivot. 9. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 8, further comprising a screw attached to said at least one pivotable contact, said screw adapted to be wired to a power supply, wherein said pivotable contact, said pin, said spring, and said screw are stainless steel. 10. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said at least one contact block is plastic. 11. An electroplating apparatus adapted to electroplate at least one substrate, the apparatus comprising: a plating tank adapted to contain electroplating solution; and an electrical contact mechanism, said mechanism having: (a) a substrate carrier adapted to maneuver said substrate into and out of a plating position, (b) at least one first conductive contact mounted to said substrate carrier and adapted to be electrically connected to a power supply and to carry current to said substrate, (c) a contact block mounted to said plating tank and having at least one notch therein, (d) at least one pivotable contact mounted within said at least one notch in said contact block and having a wiping component with an interior side and an exterior side, and (e) at least one spring, each spring mounted within said at least one notch in said contact block between said contact block and the interior side of the wiping component of said at least one pivotable contact, said spring positioned to bias said wiping component away from said contact block; wherein said at least one first conductive contact is adapted (i) to engage said exterior side of said wiping component of said at least one pivotable contact when said substrate carrier is in the plating position and (ii) to wipe against said at least one pivotable contact as said substrate carrier is maneuvered into and out of said plating position. 12. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising a pin attached to said contact block in which said at least one pivotable contact is adapted to pivot. 13. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising a screw attached to said at least one pivotable contact, said screw adapted to be wired to a power supply, wherein said at least one pivotable contact, said pin, said at least one spring, and said screw are stainless steel. 14. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said contact block is plastic. 15. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said apparatus is adapted to electroplate the substrate with a thin film. 16. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising an acidic electroplating solution in said plating tank. 17. An electroplating apparatus having a plating tank with opposite sides containing electroplating solution, at least one substrate to be electroplated, and an electrical contact mechanism, said mechanism comprising: a substrate carrier having a flybar with opposite ends, said flybar adapted to be raised and lowered automatically to maneuver said substrate into and out of a plating position; a first conductive contact mounted to each of said opposite ends of said flybar of said substrate carrier and adapted to be electrically connected to a power supply and to carry current to said substrate; a contact block mounted to each opposite side of said plating tank and having a pin and a notch therein; at least one pivotable contact pivotably mounted on said pin and within said notch in each of said contact blocks and having a wiping component with an interior side and an exterior side; at least one spring mounted within said notch in each of said contact blocks between said contact block and the interior side of the wiping component of said pivotable contact, said spring positioned to bias said wiping component away from said contact block; wherein said first conductive contacts engage said exterior sides of said wiping components of said pivotable contacts when said substrate is in the plating position to wipe against said pivotable contacts as said substrate is maneuvered into and out of said plating position. 18. The electroplating apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said flybar is adapted to be maneuvered by a robotic handling device. 