A human de-amplifier system for interfacing a human operator and a physical object through a physical plant, wherein the physical object has dimensions in the range of 1 micrometer to 1 mm. The human de-amplifier system uses an inner-feedback loop to increases the equivalent damping of the operating system to stabilize the system when it contacts with the environment and reduces the impact of the environment variation by utilizing a high feedback gain, determined by a root locus sketch. Because the stability of the human de-amplifier system of the present invention is greatly enhanced over that of the prior art, the de-amplifier system is able to manipulate the physical object has dimensions in the range of 1 micrometer to 1 mm with high stability and accuracy. The system also has a monitoring device to monitor the motion of the physical object under manipulation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for interfacing a human operator and a physical object through a physical plant, wherein the physical plant is driven by at least one actuator and the physical object has dimensions in the range of 1 micrometer to 1 mm, comprising: a. means for providing drive signals, comprising: i. means for generating incoming signals, wherein the incoming signals include contact force signals representative of forces from the hand of the human operator interacting with the surrounding environment, interacting force signals representative of forces caused at the physical plant by the interaction between the physical plant and the physical object and actuating force signals representative of forces caused at the actuator by the interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; ii. means for compensating at least partially the incoming signals directly in response to variations of the environment; and iii. means for generating drive signals from the at least partially compensated incoming signals; b. means for using the drive signals to manipulate the physical object through the physical plant; and c. means for monitoring the motion of the physical object. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the incoming signal generating means comprises at least one force sensitive device. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the force sensitive device comprises a sensor selected from the group consisting of a strain gauge type transducer and a semi-conductor based gauge type transducer. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the providing means further comprises means for receiving and filtering the contact force signals and interacting force signals. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the receiving and filtering means comprises at least one filter selected from the group consisting of a first order lag filter and a second order lag filter. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the providing means further comprises means for converting the contact force signals and interacting force signals into an equivalent Cartesian velocity signal vector. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the providing means further comprises means for converting the contact force signals and interacting force signals into an equivalent force signal vector. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the providing means further comprises means for integrating the contact force signals and interacting force signals. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the integrating means comprises an integrator with antiwindup capability. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the compensating means comprises an inner-feedback loop having a constant gain. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the inner-feedback loop further comprises a load cell or a clevis pin. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein the inner-feedback loop further comprises an accelerometer. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the compensating means comprises a compensator for providing a high feedback gain to reduce overshooting to a step response. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the compensator is capable of producing a constant gain. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the compensator comprises a series of lag-lead compensators. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the drive signals generating means comprises a limiter. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the using means comprises at least one actuator. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the actuator comprises an actuator selected from the group consisting of a hydraulic actuator and an electric actuator. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the using means comprises: a. a head; b. a first arm associated with the head; and b. a second arm associated with head, the first arm and the second arm are associated with the head in relative positions so that they move toward to each other to hold the physical object and they move away from each other to release the physical object. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring means comprises an optical device. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the optical device comprises at least one optical lens. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring means comprises: a. a data collector; b. a data transmitter; and c. a data display. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the data collector comprises at least one motion sensor. 24. The system of claim 22, wherein the data transmitter comprises a cable. 25. The system of claim 22, wherein the data display comprises a computer screen. 26. The system of claim 22, wherein the data display comprises a TV. 27. A system for interfacing a human operator and a physical object through a physical plant, wherein the physical plant is driven by at least one actuator and the physical object has dimensions in the range of 1 micrometer to 1 mm, comprising: a. a controller including: i. at least one first force sensitive device for generating contact force signals representative of forces from the hand of the human operator interacting with the surrounding environment; ii. at least one second force sensitive device for generating interacting force signals representative of forces caused at the physical plant by the interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; iii. at least one third force sensitive device for generating actuating force signals representative of forces caused at the actuator by the interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; iv. a compensator for compensating the contact and interacting force signals, wherein the compensator is capable of producing high feedback gain; v. an inner-feedback loop having a constant gain for compensating the actuating force signals, the inner-feedback loop comprising a load cell; and vi. a limiter receiving the compensated contact force signals, interacting force signals and actuating force signals, and thereby generating drive signals for manipulating the physical object; and b. a monitoring device connected to the controller, providing the controller information related to the positions of the physical object, wherein the monitoring device comprises a visual display, whereby the actuator receives the drive signals and uses the drive signals to manipulate the physical object through the physical plant. 28. A method for interfacing a human operator and a physical object through a physical plant, wherein the physical plant is driven by at least one actuator and the physical object has dimensions in the range of 1 micrometer to 1 mm, comprising the steps of: a. providing drive signals; b. using the drive signals to manipulate the physical object; and c. monitoring the motion of the physical object. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the providing step comprises the steps of: a. generating contact force signals representative of forces from the hand of the human operator interacting with the surrounding environment; b. generating interacting force signals representative of forces caused at the physical plant by the interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; c. generating actuating force signals representative of forces caused at the actuator by the interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; d. receiving and filtering the contact force signals and interacting force signals; e. compensating the actuating force signals; and f. generating drive signals from the contact force signals, interacting force signals and actuating force signals. 30. The method of claim 29, further comprising the steps of: a. changing the contact force signals and the interacting force signals into equivalent Cartesian velocity signals; b. converting the Cartesian velocity signals into joint velocity signals by inverting a manipulator-specific Jacobian matrix; and c. compensating the joint velocity signals with high feedback gain. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the compensating step comprises the step of solving a characteristic equation of transfer function to determine the gain to reduce overshooting to a step response. 32. The method of claim 29, wherein the actuating force signals compensating step y=actuator velocitycomprises the step of damping the actuating force signals. 