A stackable cassette for testing at least one separate wafer during the processing of a plurality of semiconductor wafers is disclosed. The stackable cassette includes a bottom surface which conforms to a top portion of a base cassette having a plurality of wafers. In addition, the stackable cassette includes two or more supports which extend vertically from the bottom surface and a top surface horizontally connected to the two supports. The supports include ribs which form channels for holding at least one wafer. When processing the plurality of wafers, the stackable cassette is placed on top of a base cassette. A specified processed wafer is placed within the stackable cassette. The stackable cassette is then removed for inspection of the test wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing a semiconductor wafers comprising the steps of: extracting a wafer from a plurality of wafers stored in a first cassette; processing the wafer in a processing system according to an initial set of processing parameters; and, placing the processed wafer within a second cassette stacked on the first cassettes and measuring the processed wafer after removing the second cassette from the first cassette. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of processing the plurality of wafers within the first cassette after the step of measuring the processed wafer. 3. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the steps of: modifying at least one process parameter of the initial set of process parameters after the step of measuring the processed wafer; and processing the remaining member of the plurality of wafers according to the modified set of processing parameters. 4. A method of manufacturing semiconductor wafers comprising the steps of: extracting a first wafer from a first cassette that is stacked on a second cassette, the second cassette having a plurality of wafers stored therein; processing the first wafer in a processing system according to an initial set of processing parameters; placing the processed first wafer within the first cassette; and measuring the first processed wafer after removing the first cassette from the second cassette. 5. The method according to claim 4, further comprising, after the step of processing the first wafer, processing sequentially the plurality of wafers located in the second cassette after the step of measuring the first processed wafer. 6. The method according to claim 5 further comprising, after the step of processing the first wafer; processing a second wafer from the plurality of wafers; and placing the second wafer within the first cassette. 7. The method according to claim 4 further comprising the steps of: modifying at least one process parameter of the initial set of process parameters after the step of measuring the first processed wafer; and processing the plurality of wafers according to the modified set of parameters. 8. A system for manufacturing semiconductor wafers comprising: means for extracting a wafer from a first cassette having a plurality of wafers stored therein; means for processing the wafer according to an initial set of processing parameters; means for placing the processed wafer within a second cassette stacked on the first cassette; means for removing the second cassette from the first cassette; means for measuring the processed wafer; and means for modifying at least one parameter of the initial set of processing parameters. 9. The system according to claim 8 wherein the second cassette comprises: a base providing a bottom portion of the second cassette, the base is in a shape conforming to a top portion of the first cassette having a plurality of wafers; a plurality of supports extending perpendicularly and vertically upward from the base; a top surface horizontally covering the plurality of supports; and means for holding at least one test wafer between the plurality of supports; whereby the second cassette is stacked upon the top portion of the first cassette during processing of the plurality of wafers. 10. The system according to claim 9 wherein the base of the second cassette forms a surface adaptive for placement of the cassette on the top portion of the first cassette. 11. The system according to claim 10 wherein the means for holding at least one test wafer in the second cassette comprises, a plurality of projecting transverse ribs extending from the plurality of supports forming a plurality of channels for the accommodation of at least one test wafer in the cassette. 12. The system according to claim 4, wherein the first cassette is a Front Opening Unified Pod comprising a hinged member covering a front area between the base and top surface wherein the hinged member is openable by the means for extracting a wafer and closeable by the means placing the processed wafer. 13. A system for manufacturing semiconductor wafers comprising: means for extracting a first wafer from a first cassette that is stacked on a second cassette having a plurality of wafers stored therein; means for processing the first wafer according to an initial set of processing parameters; means for placing the processed first wafer within the first cassette; means for removing the first cassette from the second cassette; means for measuring the first processed wafer; and means for modifying at least the processed parameters of the initial set of processing parameters. 14. The system according to claim 13 wherein the first cassette comprises: a base providing a bottom portion of the first cassette, the base is in a shape conforming to a top portion of the second cassette having a plurality of wafers; a plurality of supports extending perpendicularly and vertically upward from the base; a top surface horizontally covering the plurality of supports; and means for holding at least one test wafer between the plurality of supports; whereby the first cassette is stacked upon the top portion of the second cassette during processing of the plurality of wafers. 15. The system according to claim 14 wherein the base of the first cassette forms a surface adaptive for placement of the first cassette on the top portion of the second cassette. 16. The system according to claim 15 wherein the means for holding at least one test wafer in the first cassette comprises, a plurality of projecting transverse ribs extending from the plurality of supports forming a plurality of channels for the accommodation of at least one test wafer in the cassette. 17. The system according to claim 14, wherein the second cassette is a Front Opening Unified Pod comprising a hinged member covering a front area between the base and top surface wherein the hinged member is openable by the means for extracting a wafer and closeable by the means placing the processed wafer. 