The conveyor system for clinical test apparatus includes a main transport conveyor and a plurality of auxiliary conveyors located alongside the main transport conveyor. The auxiliary conveyors define straight line paths of travel parallel to the straight line paths of travel of the main conveyor. Each of the auxiliary conveyors is operated by drive means separate from the main transport conveyor. Two crossover points are provided between the main transport conveyor and the auxiliary conveyor. One crossover point is an entrance from the main transport conveyor to the auxiliary conveyor and the other crossover point is an exit from the auxiliary conveyor to the main transport conveyor. Each crossover point is controlled by a gate. One of the gates is a divert gate which can be actuated to block the main transport path thereby diverting puck traffic onto the auxiliary conveyor. The other gate is an interface gate which is used primarily to read information on a sample tube before it is introduced into a test apparatus and also functions as a load and unload station for the clinical test apparatus. The conveyor system also has a main unload and load system wherein tubes that have been completely tested are removed from pucks and reloaded with new tubes that are to be tested.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gating system for a conveyor comprising, a) a gate housing for securement to a conveyor alongside a travel path of the conveyor, b) first and second spaced protractible and retractable control fingers having protracted positions that obstruct the travel path of the conveyor and retracted positions that do not interfere with the flow of traffic on the conveyor, and means on said gate housing for moving said first and second fingers independently of each other along parallel paths into said protracted and retracted positions, c) a first object rotating mechanism provided on said gate housing between said first and second fingers for rotation of a single object on said travel path between said first and second fingers, d) a second object rotating mechanism positioned on said gate housing in series with said first object rotating mechanism, and, e) a third protractible and retractable finger positioned adjacent said second object rotating mechanism, said third finger having protractible and retractable positions and means for moving said third finger into said protracted and retracted positions independently of said first and second fingers to cooperate with said second object rotating mechanism to rotate an object on said travel path. 2. The gating system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first and second object rotating mechanisms are controlled by a single drive means. 3. The gating system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first, second and third fingers are moveable along parallel paths. 4. A gating system for a conveyor comprising, a) a gate housing for securement to a conveyor alongside a travel path of the conveyor, b) first and second spaced protractible and retractable control fingers having protracted positions that obstruct the travel path of the conveyor and retracted positions that do not interfere with the flow of traffic on the conveyor, and means on said gate housing for moving said first and second fingers independently of each other along parallel paths into said protracted and retracted positions, c) an object rotating mechanism provided on said gate housing between said first and second fingers for rotation of a single object on said travel path between while confined between said first and second fingers and, d) a third protractible and retractable diversion member positioned adjacent said object rotating mechanism said diversion member having protracted and retracted positions, and means on said gate for moving said diversion member into said protracted and retracted positions independently of said first and second fingers, and said diversion member having an inclined object engaging surface for diverting an object off said travel path by permitting an object to slide relative to the object engaging surface when said diversion member is in one of said protracted and retracted positions. 5. The gating system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said moving means for said control fingers and said diversion member are pneumatically driven. 6. The gating system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said diversion member diverts objects off said travel path when said diversion member is in said protracted position. 