A radio controlled skateboarding toy is provided comprising a multi-jointed moveable figurine attached to a motorized skateboard for which steering is controlled through the pivotal movements of the figurine allowing for dramatic realism and high performance stunts. It also features moveable battery packs, changeable motor positions, and interchangeable wheel weights to provide different centers of balance necessary to perform a wide range of maneuvers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A radio controlled steerable self-propelled skateboard toy comprised of: an erect figurine pivotally attached to a skateboard; said skateboard being motorized having a deck having a general longitudinal axis, said deck having an upper surface and having a lower surface; said figurine being attached to the upper surface of said deck with the point of attachment being at the figurine's feet and wherein the figurine is located on said skateboard at a center balanced pivotal position; a free floating front truck hangar and a free floating back truck hangar attached to the lower surface of the deck; two front wheels mounted on said free floating front truck hangar and two back wheels mounted on said free floating back truck; a variable speed motor attached to said lower surface of said deck; a power source operatively connected to the motor and which operatively controls said variable speed motor; a control means operatively connected to said power source and motor for continuously and differentially varying, at an operator's control, any level of power supplied from the power source to the motor; wherein the control means further includes a steering system configured to control the movement of the skateboard by pivotal movement of the figurine relative to the skateboard. 2. A skateboarding toy according to claim 1 wherein said figurine is multi-jointed and moveable. 3. A skateboarding toy according to claim 1 wherein the control means includes a control box adapted to be hand held remote from the skateboard. 4. A skateboarding toy according to claim 1 wherein the control means comprise radio signal transmitting means adapted to be hand held and manipulated by the operator at a remote location from the skateboard, and a signal receiving means incorporated in the skateboard and operatively associated with the power source and with the motor, the signal transmitting means emitting command signals and the signal receiving means receiving the command signal and applying power to the motor in substantial conformance to the command signals. 5. A skateboarding toy according to claim 1 having a steering system that is configured to control the movements of the figurine's body in two ways, first, the figurine's whole body can move so the weight is on one side of the skateboard or the other due to a first servo at the base of the figurine's foot, second, the figurine's upper body can rotate to move in the same turning direction as the skateboard while also swinging an arm due to a second servo in the figurine's back. 6. A skateboard toy according to claim 1 having a steering system that is configured to control the movement of the figurine's body so it can extend up and retract down relative to the skateboard deck by a pump mill located at the base of the figurine's foot. 7. A skateboarding toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein said motor is configured to be centered and attached to the lower surface of the skateboard deck by a flexible motor mount and flexible drive shaft. 8. A skateboarding toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein said motor is configured to be centered between the two back wheels of the skateboard and attached to the lower surface of the skateboard deck. 9. A skateboarding toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein said motor is configured to be off set from the center point between the two back wheels and attached to the lower surface of the skateboard deck. 10. A skateboarding toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein said motor is configured to be centered between the two back wheels of the skateboard and an additional motor is configured to be centered between the two front wheels of the skateboard and both motors are attached to the lower surface of the skateboard deck. 11. A skateboarding toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein said wheels are weighted. 12. A skateboarding toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein said wheels weights are detachable and interchangeable. 13. A skateboarding toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein said power source are comprised of battery packs which are configured to slide along the longitudinal axis of the skateboard. 14. A skateboarding toy as claimed in claim 1 having a slide plate attached to the upper surface of the skateboard deck which is configured to move the figurine and steering mechanism into different desired positions. 15. A skateboarding toy as claimed in claim 1 having a recoil spring mechanism connected to the figurine and the upper surface of the skateboard deck configured to rotate the figurine's upper body. 16. A skateboarding toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein the figurine is mounted either with its right foot forward or mounted with its left foot forward. 17. A skateboarding toy as claimed in claim 1 having flint strips in laid to the back and forward free floating truck hangars capable of producing sparks when the skateboard comes into contact with another hard surface. 