An apparatus for uniformly distributing parts on a conveyor surface which includes a storage bin for holding randomly oriented parts in bulk, a conveyor adjacent the storage bin for acquiring a fragment of the randomly oriented parts in the storage bin and delivering that fragment of randomly oriented parts to a chute, a vibratory conveyor receiving the fragment of randomly oriented parts from said chute, and a belt conveyor for receiving the randomly oriented parts from said vibratory conveyor. The vibratory conveyor includes at least one rib projecting upward therefrom and extending across at least a section of the vibratory conveyor perpendicular to the direction of conveyance, the at least one rib acting as a flow obstruction to cause the randomly oriented parts traveling on the vibratory conveyor to gather and spread across a width of said vibratory conveyor to thereby spread more uniformly on the vibratory conveyor after passing over the at least one rib.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for uniformly distributing parts on a conveyor surface: a vibratory conveyor receiving randomly oriented parts, said vibratory conveyor including at least one rib projecting upward therefrom and extending across at least a section of said vibratory conveyor perpendicular to a direction of conveyance of said vibratory conveyor, said vibratory conveyor comprising a pile material and a magnetic backer member affixed to an underside of said pile material, said at least one rib acting as a flow obstruction to cause the randomly oriented parts traveling on said vibratory conveyor to gather and spread across a width of said vibratory conveyor, the randomly oriented parts being spread more uniformly on said vibratory conveyor after passing over said at least one rib. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising: (a) a camera field of view area and a robot pick area on said belt conveyor; and (b) a trough positioned adjacent a downstream end of said belt conveyor for receiving any of the randomly oriented parts not retrieved fromsaid belt conveyor, said trough returning the randomly oriented parts received therein to said storage bin. 3. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, said elevating conveyor comprising: (a) a bulk elevator including a top surface, said bulk elevator reciprocating to a low point at which a portion of the randomly oriented parts in said storage bin move by gravity to reside on said top surface; and (b) a staging platform adjacent said bulk elevator, said bulk elevator reciprocating to a high point at which at least some of said portion of the randomly oriented parts transfer by gravity to said staging platform to thereby create a secondary reservoir of randomly oriented parts on said staging platform which is continually restocked by said bulk elevator. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 3, said elevating conveyor further comprising: a reciprocating plate conveyor adjacent said staging platform, said reciprocating plate conveyor acquiring a fragment of said secondary reservoir of the randomly oriented parts, said reciprocating plate conveyor delivering said fragment of randomly oriented parts to said chute. 5. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising: (a) a support member with a generally planar top surface; and (b) a sheet material affixed to said support member. 6. An apparatus as recited in claim 5 wherein: said sheet material is a magnetic material. 7. An apparatus as recited in claim 5 wherein: said at least one rib includes is magnetically coupled rib to said sheet material. 8. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein: said pile material includes a surface of fibers, said fibers oriented in a range of from about 50.degree. to about 80.degree. from vertical. 9. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein: said at least one rib includes is magnetically coupled rib to said backer member. 10. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein: there are at least two of said ribs and successive ones of said ribs decreasing in height in said direction of conveyance. 11. A vibratory conveyor for uniformly distributing randomly oriented parts comprising: (a) a support member with a generally planar top surface; (b) means for vibrating said support member; (c) a vibratory surface material supported on said generally planar top surface, said vibratory surface material being a pile material which includes a surface of fibers, said fibers oriented in a range of from about 50.degree. to about 80.degree. from vertical; and (d) at least one rib projecting upward through said vibratory surface material and extending across at least a section of said support member, said at least one rib being about perpendicular to a direction of conveyance of said vibratory conveyor, said at least one rib acting as a flow obstruction to cause the randomly oriented parts traveling on said vibratory surface material to gather and spread across a width of said planar member, the randomly oriented parts being spread more uniformly on said vibratory surface material after passing over said at least one rib. 12. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 11 further comprising: a backer member affixed to an underside of said vibratory surface material. 13. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 12 further comprising: a sheet material affixed to said support member. 14. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 13 wherein: said backer member is magnetically coupled to said sheet material. 15. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 12 wherein: said backer member is a magnetic material. 16. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 12 wherein: said backer member is a magnetic vinyl. 17. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 13 wherein: said sheet material is a magnetic material. 18. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 11 wherein: said rib includes a front face which is oriented at an angle of from about 10.degree. to about 30.degree. from vertical. 19. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 18 wherein: said support member is vibrated at an angle of from about 10.degree. to about 30.degree. from vertical. 20. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 7 wherein: said sheet material is a magnetic vinyl. 21. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 12 wherein: said rib is magnetically coupled to said backer member. 22. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 13 wherein: said rib is magnetically coupled to said sheet material. 23. A vibratory conveyor as recited in claim 11 wherein: there are at least two of said ribs and successive ones of said ribs decreasing in height in said direction of conveyance. 24. A vibratory conveyor for uniformly distributing randomly oriented parts comprising: (a) a support member with a generally planar top surface and a sheet material affixed to said support member; (b) means for vibrating said support member; (c) a vibratory surface material supported on said generally planar top surface, said vibratory surface material being a pile material which includes a surface of fibers; (d) a backer member affixed to an underside of said vibratory surface material; and (e) at least one rib projecting upward through said vibratory surface material and extending across at least a section of said support member, said at least one rib being about perpendicular to a direction of conveyance of said vibratory conveyor, said at least one rib acting as a flow obstruction to cause the randomly oriented parts traveling on said vibratory surface material to gather and spread across a width of said planar member, the randomly oriented parts being spread more uniformly on said vibratory surface material after passing over said at least one rib. 25. An apparatus for uniformly distributing parts on a conveyor surface: a vibratory conveyor receiving randomly oriented parts from a chute, said vibratory conveyor including at least two ribs projecting upward therefrom and extending across at least a section of said vibratory conveyor perpendicular to a direction of conveyance of said vibratory conveyor, said at least two ribs acting as a flow obstruction to cause the randomly oriented parts traveling on said vibratory conveyor to gather and spread across a width of said vibratory conveyor, the randomly oriented parts being spread more uniformly on said vibratory conveyor after passing over said at least two ribs, successive ones of said at least two ribs decreasing in height in said direction of conveyance. 26. An apparatus as recited in claim 25 wherein: said vibratory conveyor comprises a pile material and a magnetic backer member affixed to an underside of said pile material. 27. An apparatus for uniformly distributing parts on a conveyor surface: a vibratory conveyor including at least one rib projecting upward therefrom and extending across at least a section of said vibratory conveyor perpendicular to a direction of conveyance of said vibratory conveyor, said vibratory conveyor including a conveyor surface material and a magnetic backer member affixed to an underside of said conveyor surface material, said at least one rib acting as a flow obstruction to cause the randomly oriented parts traveling on said vibratory conveyor to gather and spread across a width of said vibratory conveyor, the randomly oriented parts being spread more uniformly on said vibratory conveyor after passing over said at least one rib. 