A process for treating a seamed flexible electrostatographic imaging belt including providing an imaging belt including at least one layer including a thermoplastic polymer matrix and a seam extending from one edge of the belt to the other, providing an elongated support member having a arcuate supporting surface and mass, the arcuate surface having at least a substantially semicircular cross section having a radius of curvature of between about 9.5 millimeters and about 50 millimeters, supporting the seam on the arcuate surface with the region of the belt adjacent each side of the seam conforming to the arcuate supporting surface of the support member with a wrap angle at least sufficiently enough to provide arcuate support for the seam area, traversing the seam from one edge of the belt to the other with infrared rays from a tungsten halogen quartz bulb focused with a reflector having a hemiellipsoid shape to form a heated substantially circular spot straddling the seam during traverse, the spot having a diameter of between about 3 millimeters and about 25 millimeters, without exceeding the breadth of supported arcuate seam area, to substantially instantaneously heat the thermoplastic polymer matrix in the seam and the region of the belt adjacent each side of the seam directly under the heating spot to at least the glass transition temperature of the polymer matrix without significantly heating the support member, and rapidly quenching the seam by thermal conduction of heat from the seam to the mass of the support member to a temperature below the glass transition temperature of the polymer matrix while the region of the belt adjacent each side of the seam conforms to the arcuate supporting surface of the support member. Apparatus for carrying out this process is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for treating a seamed flexible electrostatographic imaging belt comprising providing an imaging belt comprising at least one imaging layer comprising a thermoplastic polymer matrix and a seam extending from one edge of the belt to the other, providing an elongated hollow support member having holes, an arcuate supporting surface and mass, the arcuate surface having at least a substantially semicircular cross section having a radius of curvature of between about 9.5 millimeters and about 50 millimeters, supporting, using vacuum through the holes, the seam on the arcuate surface with the region of the belt adjacent each side of the seam conforming to the arcuate supporting surface of the support member with a wrap angle at least sufficiently enough to provide arcuate support for the seam and the region adjacent each side of the seam, traversing the seam from one edge of the belt to the other with infrared rays from a tungsten halogen quartz bulb focused with a reflector having a hemiellipsoid shape to form a heated substantially circular spot straddling the seam during traverse, the spot having a diameter of between about 3 millimeters and about 25 millimeters, to substantially instantaneously heat the thermoplastic polymer matrix of the imaging layer in the seam and the region of the belt adjacent each side of the seam directly under the heating spot to between the glass transition temperature (Tg) of the polymer matrix and a temperature about 25.degree. C. greater than the glass transition temperature of the polymer matrix without significantly heating the support member, and rapidly quenching the seam by thermal conduction of heat from the seam to the mass of the support member to a temperature below the glass transition temperature of the polymer matrix while the region of the belt adjacent each side of the seam conforms to the arcuate supporting surface of the support member, including using a vacuum to conform the seam and region of the belt adjacent each side of the seam to the arcuate supporting surface and completing the traversing, heating, and quenching within about 3 and about 15 seconds for a belt having a width between about 20 cm and about 60 cm. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein the wrap angle is between about 10.degree. and about 180.degree.. 3. A process according to claim 1 wherein the holes in the support member comprise slots. 4. A process according to claim 1 wherein the seam is a slanted seam. 5. A process according to claim 1 wherein the electrostatographic imaging belt is an electrophotographic imaging belt comprising a charge generating layer and a charge transport layer and the layer comprising the thermoplastic polymer matrix is the charge transport layer. 6. A process according to claim 5 wherein thermoplastic polymer matrix in the charge transport layer is polycarbonate resin containing dissolved or molecularly dispersed small charge transport molecules. 7. A process according to claim 1 wherein the electrostatographic imaging belt is an electrographic imaging belt comprising a supporting substrate layer and a dielectric imaging layer, the dielectric imaging layer comprising the thermoplastic polymer matrix. 8. A process according to claim 1 wherein the electrostatographic imaging belt is an intermediate transfer belt comprising a supporting substrate layer and an imaging layer, the imaging layer comprising the thermoplastic polymer matrix. 9. A process according to claim 1 including traversing the seam from one edge of the belt to the other with infrared rays while the seam is stationary and the tungsten halogen quartz bulb is moving. 10. A process according to claim 1 including traversing the seam from one edge of the belt to the other with infrared rays while the seam is moving and the tungsten halogen quartz bulb is stationary. 