The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for high temperature (at least about 500-800.degree. C.) processing of semiconductor wafers. The systems, methods and apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and to ensure high quality processing for high aspect ratio devices. Performing multiple process steps in the same chamber also increases the control of the process parameters and reduces device damage. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A lid assembly for a vapor deposition apparatus of the type having an enclosure housing a processing chamber, the lid assembly comprising: a base plate having a gas inlet for receiving one or more gases; a gas distribution plate including a plurality of gas distribution holes fluidly coupled to the gas inlet for dispersing the gases into the chamber; and a bypass passage coupled to the gas inlet and the processing chamber, the bypass passage offering less resistance to fluid flow than the gas distribution holes for allowing at least a portion of the gases to bypass the gas distribution holes into the chamber. 2. The lid assembly of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of bypass passages coupled to the gas inlet and the processing chamber, the bypass passages being spaced circumferentially around the gas distribution plate. 3. The lid assembly of claim 1 further comprising a chamber between the gas distribution plate and the base plate for distributing gases to the gas distribution holes, the bypass passage being coupled to said chamber. 4. The lid assembly of claim 1 further comprising a cleaning gas passage having an outlet coupled to the gas inlet and an inlet adapted for coupling to one or more sources of cleaning gases. 5. The lid assembly of claim 4 further comprising a process gas passage having an outlet coupled to the gas inlet and an inlet adapted for coupling to one or more source of process gases, and a controller for selectively allowing and inhibiting the process gases and the cleaning gases from entering the bypass passage. 6. The lid assembly of claim 1 wherein the base plate is thermally coupled to the gas distribution plate and defines a fluid inlet for receiving a heat-exchanging fluid, a fluid outlet for discharging the heat-exchanging fluid and a fluid passage formed in portions of the base plate in communication with the fluid inlet and the fluid outlet. 7. The lid assembly of claim 6 wherein the fluid passage comprises a plurality of channels formed in the base plate for receiving a coolant therethrough to exchange heat with the base plate. 8. The lid assembly of claim 1 further comprising a gas dispersion plate disposed between the gas distribution plate and the base plate, the gas dispersion plate being removably mounted to the base plate and defining one or more gas dispersion holes communicating the gas inlet with the gas distribution holes, the gas dispersion holes offering a greater resistance to fluid flow than the bypass passages. 9. An apparatus for fabricating an integrated circuit device comprising: an enclosure housing a processing chamber a gas mixing block attached to the enclosure and having an outlet coupled to the processing chamber and first and second gas inlets; a source of cleaning gas fluidly coupled to the gas mixing block; a source of process gas fluidly coupled to the gas mixing block; a valve coupled to the gas mixing block for selectively fluidly coupling the source of cleaning gas and the source of process gas with the gas mixing block to selectively allow cleaning gases or process gases into the processing chamber; a base plate having a gas inlet coupled to the gas mixing block; a gas distribution plate including a plurality of gas distribution holes fluidly coupled to the gas inlet for dispersing the gases into the chamber; and a bypass passage coupled to the gas inlet and the processing chamber, the bypass passage offering less resistance to fluid flow than the gas distribution holes for allowing at least a portion of the gases to bypass the gas distribution holes into the chamber. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a controller coupled to the valve for selectively opening and closing the valve to allow gas to flow through to the gas mixing block. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a cleaning gas passage coupling the source of cleaning gas with the gas mixing block, wherein the valve is positioned along the cleaning gas passage. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the base plate is an integral, single-piece base plate for sealing the opening of the enclosure, the base plate defining a lower surface for positioning within the sealed enclosure, a gas inlet and one or more mounting elements for mounting to the enclosure. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said cleaning gas passage includes a fluorinated material resistant to etching by said cleaning gas, said cleaning gas including fluorine. 