The present invention generally provides a modular substrate cassette used to store substrates. The modular substrate cassette is designed to use different components that may be collectively assembled into different cassette configurations while substantially reducing or eliminating custom and complex fabrication costs. The modular substrate cassette may accommodate multiple substrate sizes, including 100 mm, 200 mm, and 300 mm substrates, as well as a variety of substrate shapes, including circular, square, and rectangular. In a preferred embodiment, the substrate supports use materials from standard geometries of bar stock and/or plate stock to minimize the costs of production. Also, in a preferred embodiment, the substrate cassette is designed to allow multi-directional access to substrates stored in the cassette.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular substrate cassette for holding a substrate, comprising: a) a top bracket and a bottom bracket; b) a plurality of columnar supports connected to the top bracket and the bottom bracket and spaced from each other to support the substrate between the columnar supports, each columnar support comprising a plurality of components, the components comprising: 1) a vertical support member; and 2) a lateral alignment member connected to the vertical support member. 2. The modular substrate cassette of claim 1, wherein the components further comprise a spacer. 3. The modular substrate cassette of claim 1, wherein the substrate slot configurations range from at least about one substrate slot to about 100 substrate slots. 4. The modular substrate cassette of claim 2, wherein the vertical support member, the lateral alignment member, and the spacer comprise separate components. 5. The modular substrate cassette of claim 4, wherein the vertical support member, the lateral alignment member, and the spacer are planar separate components. 6. The modular substrate cassette of claim 2, wherein the vertical support member, the lateral alignment member, and the spacer comprise an opening in each component adapted to allow insertion of a connecting rod to create a stack of connected components. 7. The modular substrate cassette of claim 2, wherein the spacer and the lateral alignment member comprise a subassembly adapted to be assembled with the vertical support member in the substrate slot configurations. 8. The modular substrate cassette of claim 1, further comprising a connecting rod, wherein the vertical support member and the lateral alignment member are connected to the connecting rod at an offset distance from a center of the vertical support member and the lateral alignment member, respectively. 9. The modular substrate cassette of claim 1, wherein at least one vertical support member comprises a non-circular plate. 10. The modular substrate cassette of claim 1, further comprising an orientation rod engaged with at least one of the components. 11. The modular substrate cassette of claim 9, further comprising at least two columnar supports arranged on the top and bottom brackets to allow angular loading and unloading of the substrate with respect to a face of the modular substrate cassette. 12. The modular substrate cassette of claim 11, wherein a first columnar support is disposed closer to a normal line perpendicular to the face of the modular substrate cassette than a second columnar support and wherein the third columnar support is spaced a distance from a coordinate axis perpendicular to the normal line and passing through a substrate center of gravity to allow multi-directional access of the substrate. 13. The modular substrate cassette of claim 1, wherein the columnar supports allow multi-directional access of the substrate. 14. The modular substrate cassette of claim 13, further comprising a rotatable positioning device adapted to rotate the modular substrate cassette to allow the multi-directional access. 15. A method of using a modular substrate cassette in a substrate processing system, comprising: a) loading a substrate into a modular substrate cassette having at least two vertical support members and at least two lateral alignment members; b) engaging the substrate with at least the two vertical support members; and c) unloading the substrate from the modular substrate cassette at an angular direction with respect to a normal line perpendicular to a face of the modular substrate cassette, independent of rotating the modular substrate cassette, the vertical support members and the lateral alignment members being components adapted to be stacked in at least one column. 16. The method of using a modular substrate cassette of claim 15, further comprising accessing the substrate parallel to a normal line perpendicular to one face of the modular substrate cassette and accessing the substrate at the angular direction with respect to the normal line on another face of the modular substrate cassette. 17. The method of using a modular substrate cassette of claim 15, further comprising holding the vertical support members and the lateral alignment members in relative orientation to one another when stacked in the column. 18. A modular substrate cassette, comprising: a) a top bracket and a bottom bracket; and b) at least two columnar supports connected to the top bracket and the bottom bracket, each columnar support comprising: 1) a connecting rod; and 2) a plurality of stackable components, comprising: a) a vertical support member connected to the connecting rod; and b) a lateral alignment member connected to the connecting rod and adjacent the vertical support member. 19. The modular substrate cassette of claim 18, wherein at least one of the columnar supports comprises at least one spacer having a smaller cross section than the lateral alignment member and connected to the connecting rod. 20. The modular substrate cassette of claim 18, further comprising an orientation rod engaged with at least one of the components. 21. The modular substrate cassette of claim 18, wherein at least one of the columnar supports comprises an elongated vertical support member. 22. The modular substrate cassette of claim 18, wherein the columnar supports are arranged on the brackets to allow multi-direction access to the substrate. 23. The modular substrate cassette of claim 18, wherein the vertical support members, the lateral alignment members, and the spacers comprise separate components. 24. The modular substrate cassette of claim 19, wherein the spacers and the lateral alignment members comprise subassemblies adapted to be assembled with the vertical support members. 25. The modular substrate cassette of claim 19, wherein at least one lateral alignment member is connected to the connecting rod at an offset distance from a center of the lateral alignment member. 26. The modular substrate cassette of claim 18, further comprising compression members connected to the connecting rod. 27. The modular substrate cassette of claim 18, wherein the modular substrate cassette is adapted to be configured from about one substrate slot to about 100 substrate slots by arranging the sequence and quantity of vertical support members and lateral alignment members. 28. The modular substrate cassette of claim 18, further comprising a linear positioning device adapted to position the modular substrate cassette along at least one axis. 29. The modular substrate cassette of claim 28, further comprising a rotatable positioning device adapted to rotate the modular substrate cassette to allow loading and unloading of the substrate cassette. 30. The modular substrate cassette of claim 1, wherein the vertical support member and lateral alignment member comprise a subassembly adapted to be assembled into a stack of connected components. 31. The modular substrate cassette of claim 2, wherein the vertical support member, lateral alignment member, and spacer comprise a subassembly adapted to be assembled into a stack of components. 32. The modular substrate cassette of claim 1, wherein at least one component comprises an alignment protrusion. 