A robotic plotting system 10 is provided, in which a robotic plotter 18 having a printhead 18 is placed on a substantially flat horizontal surface 23, upon a recording medium 22, and is directed across the medium 22 by ranging signals 16 transmitted to the printhead 18 from the periphery of the recording medium 22. In one embodiment, the robotic printhead 18 includes a motorized drive mechanism 26, 28 that propels it across the surface of the recording medium 22 in a controlled manner, for example using microwave control signals 16. Thus, a user can place a piece of paper 22 of any size on a flat surface 23 such as a table or floor, and the printhead 18 is propelled across the surface 23 and is directed by signals 16 beamed between the printhead 18 and a control mechanism 14. In this manner, a large-surface-area plotting system 10 is provided in the form of a small hand-held device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic plotting printhead for receiving a combined input signal from a first transmitting element, said combined input signal having a plurality of distinct frequencies which communicate a printhead coordinate input signal and a pen activation input signal, and for printing onto a recording medium, said recording medium located on a first surface, comprising: a receiver element adapted to receive said combined input signal from said first transmitting element; a detection system having a plurality of bandwidth filters for receiving said combined signal from said receiver element and for isolating said printhead coordinate input signal and said pen activation input signal through said plurality of bandwidth filters; a microcontroller for independently processing said isolated printhead coordinate input signal and said pen activation input signal to selectively and simultaneously produce a printhead coordinate activation signal and a pen activation signal; a motorized drive system connected to said microcontroller and directed by said printhead coordinate activation signal for propelling said robotic plotting printhead across said recording medium in a controlled manner; and an activatable pen tip activated by said pen activation signal through said microcontroller for writing onto said recording medium. 2. The robotic plotting printhead of claim 1, wherein said first surface is substantially planar. 3. The robotic plotting printhead of claim 1, wherein said first transmitting element is located along the periphery of said recording medium. 4. The robotic plotting printhead of claim 1, wherein said combined signal is a microwave control signal. 5. The robotic plotting printhead of claim 1, wherein said combined signal is an ultrasonic control signal. 6. The robotic plotting printhead of claim 1, wherein said combined signal is an infrared control signal. 7. The robotic plotting printhead of claim 1, further comprising: a printhead transmitter element adapted to transmit a homing signal to said first transmitting element. 8. The robotic plotting printhead of claim 1, further comprising: a printhead transmitter element adapted to transmit a homing signal to a pointer benchmark. 9. The robotic plotting printhead of claim 1, further comprising: a portable power source connected to said receiver element, said detection system, said motorized drive system, and said activatable pen tip. 10. The robotic plotting printhead of claim 1, further comprising: a flexible power lead tethered between said robotic plotting printhead and said first transmitting element. 11. A robotic plotting system, comprising: a first surface adapted to produce a time-synchronized presentation output signal in response to a written image entered by a user at a first site; a network adapted to send said presentation output signal from said first site to a second site; a plotter transmitter module at said second site adapted to receive said presentation output signal and also adapted to transmit a combined input signal having a plurality of distinct frequencies which communicate a printhead coordinate input signal and a pen activation input signal in response to said received presentation output signal; and a plotter printhead at said second site having a receiver element adapted to receive said combined signal from said plotter transmitter module, a detection system having a plurality of bandwidth filters, for receiving said combined signal from said receiver element and for isolating said printhead coordinate signal and said pen activation signal through said plurality of bandwidth filters, a motorized drive system directed by said printhead coordinate signal through said receiver element for propelling said robotic plotter printhead across a recording medium in a controlled manner, and a pen tip activated by said pen activation signal through said receiver element for writing onto said recording medium. 12. The robotic plotting system of claim 11, further comprising: a sound recording system adapted to produce a sound output signal in response to sounds entered by a user at said first site, wherein said network is adapted to send both said presentation output signal and said sound output signal from said first site to said second site; and a sound presentation system at said second site adapted to receive said sound output signal from said first site, and present said sound signal at said second site. 13. The robotic plotting system of claim 11, wherein said plotter transmitter module is located along the periphery of said recording medium. 14. The robotic plotting system of claim 11, wherein said combined signal is a microwave control signal. 15. The robotic plotting system of claim 11, wherein said combined signal is an ultrasonic control signal. 16. The robotic plotting system of claim 11, wherein said combined signal is an infrared control signal. 17. A process, comprising the steps of: inputting a combined plotter signal to a remote plotter printhead having a pen tip, said combined plotter signal having a plurality of distinct frequencies which separately communicate X and Y location coordinate input signals and a pen activation input signal in response to said received presentation output signal; feeding said combined plotter signal through a plurality of filters to isolate said X and Y location component input signals and said pen activation input signal; independently processing said X and Y location component input signals and said pen activation input signal to selectively and simultaneously produce X and Y location component activation signals and a pen activation signal; selectively directing said remote plotter printhead across a recording medium in response to said independently processed X and Y location component activation signals; and selectively moving said pen tip into contact with or away from said recording medium in response to said independently processed pen activation signal. 18. The process of claim 17, further comprising the step of: amplifying said input combined plotter signal. 19. The process of claim 17, wherein said combined plotter signal is an ultrasonic signal. 20. The process of claim 17, wherein said combined plotter signal is an infrared signal. 