A wire-and-pulley drive link mechanism such as a robot hand, comprising a base, a linkage connected to said base by a first joint and having a first link and a second link connected by a second joint like fingers. The base carries motors for individual links. A wire-and-pulley drive system is provided such that said linkage moves relative to said base and said first link moves relative to said second link moves when driven by said motors. The wire is made of amorphous material and a coil is wound on each of the wires to detect stress or tensile force by sensing a change of magnetic permeability generated when the wire is subject to external force. A control system having a joint servo is provided and determines a manipulated variable to be supplied to the motor based on at least the detected stress and a servo gain.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wire-and-pulley drive link mechanism, comprising: a first link and a second link connected by a joint; an actuator mounted on said first link; a pulley mounted on said second link; a wire wound around said actuator and said pulley such that said second link moves relative to said first link when said wire is driven by said actuator; and stress detecting means for detecting stress acting on said wire, said stress detecting means being mounted on said wire to detect stress by sensing a change of magnetic permeability generated in said wire. 2. A link mechanism according to claim 1, wherein said wire is made of amorphous material. 3. A link mechanism according to claim 2, wherein said amorphous material is Fe-base amorphous material. 4. A link mechanism according to claim 2, wherein said amorphous material is Co-base amorphous material. 5. A link mechanism according to claim 2, wherein said wire is made of a plurality of strands each made of amorphous material. 6. A link mechanism according to claim 3, wherein said Fe-base amorphous material is Fe.sub.77.5 -Si.sub.7.5 -B.sub.15 material. 7. A link mechanism according to claim 1, wherein said stress detecting means is a coil wound around said wire. 8. A link mechanism according to claim 7, wherein said coil is covered by a tube. 9. A link mechanism according to claim 1, wherein said wire is imparted with an initial load. 10. A link mechanism according to claim 1, wherein said first link is a base. 11. A link mechanism according to claim 10, wherein said base is connected to a robot arm. 12. A wire-an-pulley drive linkage mechanism, comprising: a base a linkage connected to said base by a first joint, said linkage having a first link and a second link connected by a second joint, an actuator mounted on said base; a plurality of pulleys mounted on said base and said first and second link of said linkage; a plurality of wires wound around the actuator and said pulley such that said linkage moves relative to said base and said first link moves relative to said second link when said wires are driven by said actuator; and stress detecting means for detecting stress acting on said wires, said stress detecting means being mounted on aid wires to detect stress by sensing a change of magnetic permeability generated in each of said wire. 13. A link mechanism according to claim 12, wherein said wires are made of amorphous material. 14. A link mechanism according to claim 12, wherein each said wire is made of a plurality of strands each made of amorphous material. 15. A link mechanism according to claim 12, wherein said wires are imparted with an initial load. 16. A wire-and-pulley drive link mechanism, comprising: a first link and a second link connected by a joint; an actuator mounted on said first link; a pulley mounted on said second link; a wire wound around said actuator and said pulley such that said second link moves relative to said first link when said wire is driven by said actuator; stress detecting means for detecting stress acting on said wire, said stress detecting means being mounted on said wire to detect stress by sensing change of magnetic permeability generated in said wire; manipulated variable determining means for determining a manipulated variable to be supplied to said actuator; said manipulated variable determining means determines said manipulated variable based on at least said detected stress; and driving means for driving said actuator based on said determined manipulated variable. 17. A wire-and-pulley drive link mechanism, comprising: a first link and a second link connected by a joint; an actuator mounted on said first link; a pulley mounted on said second link; a wire wound around said actuator and said pulley such that said second link moves relative to said first link when said wire is driven by said actuator; stress detecting means for detecting stress acting on said wire, said stress detecting means being mounted on said wire to detect stress by sensing change of magnetic permeability generated in said wire; manipulated variable determining means for determining a manipulated variable to be supplied to said actuator; said manipulated variable determining means determines said manipulated variable based on at least said detected stress; and driving means for driving said actuator based on said determined manipulated variable; wherein said manipulated variable determining means comprises: initial value determining means for determining an initial value to be supped to said actuator in a joint servo; gain determining means for determining a servo gain; and manipulated variable determining means for determining said manipulated variable by correcting said initial value based on at least said detected stress and said servo gain. 18. A link mechanism according to claim 17, wherein said servo gain comprises a spring constant and a coefficient of viscosity in said position servo. 