A liquid-cooled welding torch assembly for use in robotic welding that includes a body tube with a set of male connectors, the body tube guiding an electrode, and a flow of coolant to a welding tip. A supply cable adapter including a set of female connectors corresponding to the set of male connectors. At least one of the male connectors includes a rigid tube with a plurality of axially compressible and radially expandable sealing members coaxially and slidably disposed about the rigid tube, whereby the plurality of axially compressible and radially expandable sealing members expand to create a seal between the at least one of the male connectors and a corresponding one of the set of female connectors.
Claims We claim: 1. A liquid-cooled welding torch assembly for use in robotic welding, said torch assembly comprising: a body tube comprising a set of male connectors, the body tube guiding an electrode, and a flow of coolant to a welding tip; and a supply cable adapter comprising a set of female connectors corresponding to the set of male connectors, wherein at least one of the male connectors comprises a rigid tube comprising a plurality of axially compressible and radially expandable sealing members coaxially and slidably disposed about the rigid tube, whereby the plurality of axially compressible and radially expandable sealing members expand to create a seal between the at least one of the male connectors and a corresponding one of the set of female connectors. 2. The welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of axially compressible and radially expandable sealing members comprises an O-ring. 3. The welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of axially movable and radially expandable sealing members comprises a Quad-ring. 4. The welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein the set of male connectors comprises an electrode connector and a coolant supply connector that comprises a rigid tube comprising a plurality of axially movable and radially expandable sealing members coaxially disposed about the rigid tube. 5. The welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein the set of male connectors comprises an electrode connector and a coolant return connector that comprises a rigid tube comprising a plurality of axially movable and radially expandable sealing members coaxially disposed about the rigid tube. 6. The welding torch assembly of claim 4, wherein the set of male connectors further comprises a coolant return connector that comprises a second rigid tube comprising a plurality of axially movable and radially expandable sealing members coaxially disposed about the second rigid tube. 7. The welding torch assembly of claim 4, wherein the rigid tube further comprises a body tube connection end for releasably connecting the rigid tube to the body tube. 8. The welding torch assembly of claim 5, wherein the rigid tube further comprises a body tube connection end for releasably connecting the rigid tube to the body tube. 9. The welding torch assembly of claim 4, wherein the rigid tube comprises: a body tube connection end having a threaded external portion; a flange adjacent the threaded portion and integral with the rigid tube; and a retaining lip integral with the rigid tube and positioned opposite the body tube connection end of the rigid tube, whereby the plurality of axially compressible and radially expandable sealing members are positioned along the rigid tube between the flange and the retaining lip. 10. The welding torch assembly of claim 5, wherein the rigid tube comprises: a body tube connection end having a threaded external portion; a flange adjacent the threaded portion and integral with the rigid tube; and a retaining lip integral with the rigid tube and positioned opposite the body tube connection end of the rigid tube, whereby the plurality of axially compressible and radially expandable sealing members are positioned along the rigid tube between the flange and the retaining lip. 11. The welding torch assembly of claim 9, wherein the coolant supply connector further comprises a sealing member retaining ring for receiving an axial force from a female connector and evenly distributing the axial force against the sealing member. 12. The welding torch assembly of claim 10, wherein the coolant return connector further comprises a sealing member retaining ring for receiving an axial force from a female connector and evenly distributing the axial force against the sealing member. 13. The welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein at least one of the set of female connectors comprises a hollow passage in the supply cable adapter sized to accept the at least one of the set of male connectors, the at least one of the set of female connectors having a biasing member disposed within the hollow passage for supplying an axial force against the plurality of sealing members, whereby the sealing members compress and expand to form a seal. 14. A liquid-cooled welding torch assembly for use in robotic welding, said torch assembly comprising: a body tube comprising a set of male connectors, the body tube guiding an electrode and a flow of coolant to a welding tip; and a supply cable adapter comprising a set of female connectors corresponding to the set of male connectors, wherein at least one of the male connectors comprises a rigid tube comprising an axially compressible and radially expandable sealing member coaxially disposed about the rigid tube, the axially compressible and radially expandable sealing member having an axial length and a radial thickness, wherein the axial length is greater than the radial thickness, whereby the axially compressible and radially expandable sealing member creates a seal between the at least one of the male connectors and a corresponding one of the set of female connectors when an axial force is applied to the sealing member. 15. The welding torch assembly of claim 14, wherein the set of male connectors comprises an electrode connector and a coolant supply connector that comprises a rigid tube having an axially compressible and radially expandable sealing member coaxially disposed about the rigid tube. 16. The welding torch assembly of claim 14, wherein the set of male connectors comprises an electrode connector and a coolant return connector that comprises a rigid tube having an axially compressible and radially expandable sealing member coaxially disposed about the rigid tube. 17. The welding torch assembly of claim 15, wherein the set of male connectors further comprises a coolant return connector that comprises a second rigid tube having an axially compressible and radially expandable sealing member coaxially disposed about the second rigid tube. 18. The welding torch assembly of claim 15, wherein the rigid tube further comprises a body tube connection end for releasably connecting the rigid tube to the body tube. 19. The welding torch assembly of claim 16, wherein the rigid tube further comprises a body tube connection end for releasably connecting the rigid tube to the body tube. 20. The welding torch assembly of claim 15, wherein the rigid tube comprises: a body tube connection end having a threaded external portion; a flange adjacent the threaded portion and integral with the rigid tube; and a retaining lip integral with the rigid tube and positioned opposite the body tube connection end of the rigid tube, whereby the axially compressible and radially expandable sealing member is positioned along the rigid tube between the flange and the retaining lip. 21. The welding torch assembly of claim 16, wherein the rigid tube comprises: a body tube connection end having a threaded external portion; a flange adjacent the threaded portion and integral with the rigid tube; and a retaining lip integral with the rigid tube and positioned opposite the body tube connection end of the rigid tube, whereby the axially compressible and radially expandable sealing member is positioned along the rigid tube between the flange and the retaining lip. 22. The welding torch assembly of claim 15, wherein the coolant supply connector further comprise a sealing member retaining ring for receiving an axial force from a female connectors and evenly distributing the axial force against the sealing member. 23. The welding torch assembly of claim 16, wherein the coolant supply connector further comprise a sealing member retaining ring for receiving an axial force from a female connectors and evenly distributing the axial force against the sealing member. 24. The welding torch assembly of claim 14, wherein at least one of the set of female connectors comprises a hollow passage in the supply cable adapter sized to accept the at least one of the set of male connectors, the at least one of the set of female connectors having a biasing member disposed within the hollow passage for supplying an axial force against the plurality of sealing members, whereby the sealing members compress and expand to form a seal. 25. A supply cable adapter for use in a liquid-cooled welding torch, the supply cable adapter comprising: an adapter member having an axial length and a width, wherein the axial length is greater than the width; a body tube connection end on one end of the adapter member, the body tube connection end comprising a first plurality of female connectors defined by hollow bores in the body tube end of the adapter member; a supply end opposite the body tube end, the supply end releasably connectable to a plurality of supply connectors; a threaded area adjacent the body tube connection end; and a strain relief orientation guide positioned adjacent the supply end of the adapter member. 26. The supply cable adapter of claim 25, wherein each of the plurality of supply connectors having a different axial length. 27. The supply cable adapter of claim 26, wherein said different axial lengths result in a reduction in strain of a cable assembly on the supply connectors. 28. The supply cable adapter of claim 25, wherein the first plurality of female connectors comprises a female coolant supply connector and a female coolant return connector and wherein a biasing member is removably attached inside each of the female coolant supply and return connectors. 29. The supply cable adapter of claim 25, wherein the supply end further comprises a coolant supply channel and a coolant return channel, each of the coolant supply and return channels having a check valve. 30. A liquid-cooled welding torch assembly for use in robotic welding, said torch assembly comprising: a body tube having a set of male connectors, the body tube guiding an electrode, and a flow of coolant to a welding tip; and a supply cable adapter having a set of female connectors corresponding to the set of male connectors, the supply cable adapter having an axial length and a width wherein the axial length is greater than the width, and wherein the body tube releasably connects to the supply cable adapter in a predetermined rotationally fixed orientation; a mounting cuff sized to slidably fit over an exterior portion of the axial length of the supply cable adapter and having an orientation guide adapted to cooperate with a corresponding orientation guide on the supply cable adapter to maintain a predetermined rotationally fixed orientation with respect to the supply cable adapter; and a torch mount slidably connectable to an outer portion of the mounting cuff, the torch mount comprising an alignment guide sized to cooperate with a corresponding alignment guide on the mounting cuff to repeatably connect at a predetermined alignment, whereby a repeatable orientation of the body tube is maintained with respect to the torch mount to expedite replacement of the body tube. 