The present invention relates to an automated system for the retrieval and delivery of oral/solid and parenteral products from a central pharmacy supply or other location to predetermined destinations within a hospital comprising robot devices and a pneumatic tube carrier system. The system comprises an input queue, a dispensing apparatus comprising a robot device and a number of stations from which the robot device works, an inspection station, and a transportation system. A computer interface provides bi-directional communication between analytical instruments, robots and peripheral devices and a computer. The robot employed by the system is responsive to computer commands and capable of performing mechanical functions including selection and retrieval of necessary items, and manipulation of retrieved items such that desired product is delivered. For oral/solid products, the item(s) is(are) automatically retrieved by a robotic device, moved to a transportation device, such as a pneumatic tube carrier, which is automatically opened and positioned to receive the product, automatically inserted into (or onto) the transportation device, and automatically delivered to its predetermined destination.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated system for the retrieval and delivery of oral products, said system comprising: at least one computer having a database capable of receiving and transmitting information within said system; a retrieval means comprising: at least one movable arm; at least one pair of gripping means wherein said gripping means are attached to at least one of said movable arms having sensors wherein said sensors indicate the presence or absence of an object; a supply station containing said oral products, wherein said supply station is positioned adjacent said retrieval means; a plurality of pneumatic tube carriers; a loading means for automatically loading said carriers into said pneumatic tube system; and a control means for coordinating transportation of said carriers containing said oral products through said pneumatic tube system to predetermined locations; wherein said retrieval means is instructed by said computer to select said oral products from said supply station and insert said oral products into said pneumatic tube carrier. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said oral products are solids. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein said oral products are liquids. 4. A method for the automatic retrieval and delivery of oral products through a pneumatic tube delivery system, said method comprising the steps of: inputting information into said computer; transmitting said information from said computer to said robot device and said pneumatic tube system; selecting said oral product in accordance with said information; inserting said oral product into a carrier; and transporting said carrier through said pneumatic tube system in accordance with said information; wherein said computer controls said selecting and said transporting in accordance with said information, and wherein said robot device performs said selecting and said inserting. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said oral products are solids. 6. A method according to claim 4, wherein said oral products are liquids. 7. An apparatus for the automatic handling of oral products for delivery to a predetermined location, said apparatus comprising: at least one computer; at least one storage device; at least one robot device; at least one transporter; at least one pneumatic tube carrier; and at least one pneumatic tube delivery system; wherein said robot device selects and grasps said oral products from said storage device; wherein said transporter transports said robot device between said storage device and said pneumatic tube carrier system; wherein said robot device inserts said oral products into said pneumatic tube carrier; and wherein said oral products are selected and transported in accordance with signals generated from said computer. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein an inspection station is located midway between said storage device and said pneumatic tube delivery system. 9. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said oral products are solids. 10. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said oral products are liquids. 