This invention presents an automatic calibration system and method for calibration of a substrate temperature sensor in a thermal processing equipment, such as a rapid thermal processing system. The calibration system includes a temperature-sensitive probe associated with the substrate temperature sensor to calibrate the substrate temperature sensor and an actuator to position the temperature-sensitive probe relative to the substrate during a calibration cycle. The actuator and temperature-sensitive probe of the automatic calibration system can be incorporated into the thermal processing equipment in order to maintain the thermal processing equipment cleanliness and integrity during a calibration cycle, and to allow rapid automated calibration. In the preferred embodiment of this invention, the temperature-sensitive probe and its actuator are implemented in the gas showerhead assembly of a rapid thermal processing system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for in-situ calibration of at least one substrate temperature sensor in thermal processing equipment for processing a substrate, comprising: at least one in-situ temperature-sensitive probe to calibrate the at least one substrate temperature sensor, and an actuator, said actuator operable to receive control signals, and further operable to position said at least one temperature-sensitive probe relative to the substrate during a calibration cycle; wherein said actuator and said at least one temperature-sensitive probe are assembled into the thermal processing equipment in order to allow rapid automated calibration and maintain the thermal processing equipment integrity during said calibration cycle; and wherein said at least one temperature-sensitive probe comprises a plurality of temperature-sensitive probes and said at least one substrate temperature sensor comprises a plurality of substrate temperature sensors, and wherein the number of temperature sensitive probes equals the number of substrate temperature sensors, and further wherein each temperature-sensitive probe calibrates a single substrate temperature sensor, and further wherein each temperature-sensitive calibration probe measures the substrate temperature at approximately the same planar location on the substrate that the corresponding substrate temperature sensor measures temperature. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said temperature-sensitive probe further comprises: a thermocouple sensor at an end of the temperature sensitive probe for detecting substrate temperature; and wherein said apparatus further comprises a probe housing for containing said temperature sensitive probe. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said probe housing containing said temperature-sensitive probe is embedded within a gas showerhead in said thermal processing equipment. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said actuator further comprises an electromechanical solenoid. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said electromechanical solenoid comprises: a plurality of solenoid coils coupled to the probe housing, said coils placed adjacent to each other axially, said coils operable to receive independent electrical current signals to create a magnetic field within said solenoid; a plurality of wires connecting the plurality of solenoid coils to a current source, and operable to provide current to the plurality of solenoid coils; and a finite-length jacket segment made of a high-permeability magnetic material coupled to the temperature-sensitive probe, said jacket segment operable to move in response to the magnetic field created by the electrical current passing through the plurality of coils. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said jacket segment is constrained by the probe housing to extend toward said substrate and retract away from said substrate. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said probe housing comprises a non-magnetic metallic material. 8. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said apparatus further comprises a pump and purge line coupled to said probe housing, said pump and purge line operable to purge said temperature-sensitive probe during substrate processing, and further operable to pump gas out of said probe housing during a pump-down process performed in said thermal processing equipment. 9. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a spring coupled at a first end to said temperature-sensitive probe opposite said thermocouple sensor, and said spring further coupled at a second end to a fixed location further away from said substrate, said spring operable to retract said temperature-sensitive probe away from said substrate during periods when no electrical current is provided to said solenoid coils. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said spring is a magnetic spring. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said fixed location further comprises a cap operable to seal the top of the probe housing. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a stopper mechanism operable to hold said temperature-sensitive probe stationary when said temperature-sensitive probe is in a retracted position. 13. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a magnetic spring, said magnetic spring comprising: an outer permanent magnet coupled to said probe housing above said solenoid coils with a defined polarity; and an inner permanent magnet coupled to said temperature-sensitive probe at a position above the jacket segment, and wherein the interaction between the outer permanent magnet and the inner permanent magnet holds said temperature-sensitive probe at a stationary position when said temperature-sensitive probe is in a retracted position. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising a second jacket segment made of a high-permeability magnetic material coupled to the temperature-sensitive probe at a lower position than said jacket segment and of a smaller finite length than said jacket segment, said lower and smaller jacket segment operable to react to a magnetic field produced by said solenoid coils to position the temperature-sensitive probe so that said interaction between the outer permanent magnet and the inner permanent magnet holds said temperature-sensitive probe at a stationary and retracted position. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said thermal processing equipment is a rapid thermal processing equipment. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said thermal processing equipment is a single-wafer rapid thermal processing equipment. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said substrate is a semiconductor wafer. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said substrate is a data storage head substrate. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said substrate is a flat-panel display substrate. 20. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said actuator positions said temperature sensitive calibration probe to contact a device side of said substrate during a calibration cycle. 21. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said single-wafer rapid thermal processing equipment comprises: a process chamber; a multi-zone illuminator to heat said substrate from backside; and a gas showerhead with an optically reflective face plate placed facing the frontside of said substrate for process gas flow upon said substrate frontside. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said substrate temperature sensor is a pyrometry sensor. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said temperature-sensitive probe is embedded in said gas showerhead. 24. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein, for each substrate temperature sensor there is a corresponding temperature-sensitive calibration probe which can measure the substrate temperature at approximately the same planar location on the corresponding substrate that the substrate temperature sensor measures temperature. 25. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said actuator extends said temperature-sensitive probe toward said substrate during an autocalibration cycle for calibration of said substrate temperature sensor. 26. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said temperature-sensitive calibration probe is retracted into said gas showerhead during normal substrate processing. 27. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the position of said temperature-sensitive probe relative to said substrate is controlled using said electromechanical solenoid, which further includes solenoid coils, as a magnetic position sensor in a closed-loop position control circuit. 28. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the position of said temperature-sensitive probe relative to said substrate is measured by measuring inductance of the solenoid coils using an alternating current electrical signal superimposed on a direct current drive signal used to actuate said probe. 29. An apparatus for in-situ calibration of at least one pyrometry sensor in a rapid thermal processing equipment, comprising: at least one in-situ calibration probe; wherein said calibration probe further includes a thermocouple junction probe at an end of said calibration probe for reading substrate temperature; the apparatus further comprising a probe housing for containing said temperature sensitive calibration probe; wherein said probe housing containing said thermocouple junction probe is embedded within a gas showerhead in said thermal processing equipment; an actuator to receive control signals to position said calibration probe with respect to a wafer substrate located within the process chamber of said rapid thermal processing equipment; a controller to adjust the control signals to said actuator in order to control position of said calibration probe; wherein said actuator and said at least one in-situ calibration probe is capable of being coupled with and merged into the thermal processing equipment in order to maintain the thermal processing equipment process chamber cleanliness and integrity during an in-situ calibration cycle; a multi-zone illuminator for optical heating of said wafer from its backside; an optically reflective object facing a frontside of said wafer; and an optically transmissive medium located between said multi-zone illuminator and said wafer backside. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said optically reflective object further comprises an array of holes for injection of process gases into said process chamber. 31. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said optically reflective object further comprises embedded channels for flowing a coolant fluid in order to maintain the temperature of said optically reflective object below a specified temperature value. 32. The apparatus of claim 31 wherein said specified temperature value is below 100 degrees Celsius. 33. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said optically reflective object comprises a substantially flat, planar, and polished surface with a highly reflective optical coating in order to minimize optical absorption. 34. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein the optical reflection of said highly reflective object surface is greater than 90 percent in the near infrared optical spectrum. 35. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said at least one in-situ calibration probe is embedded within said optically reflective object. 36. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein said actuator can operate upon said calibration probe in order to make contact between said calibration probe and the frontside of said wafer within said process chamber. 37. The apparatus of claim 36 wherein said actuator is controlled to establish a repeatable contact force for said contact. 38. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein the spacing between said optically reflective object surface and said wafer is less than 100 mm and greater than 5 mm. 39. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein said in-situ calibration probe is extended to make contact with said wafer during an in-situ pyrometry calibration cycle, and further wherein said calibration probe is retracted within said optically reflective object during normal wafer processing periods. 40. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said actuator further comprises an electromechanical solenoid. 41. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein said electromechanical solenoid comprises: a plurality of solenoid coils coupled to the probe housing, said coils placed adjacent to each other axially, said coils operable to receive electrical current to create a magnetic field about said solenoid; a plurality of wires connecting the plurality of solenoid coils to a current source, and operable to provide current to the plurality of solenoid coils; and a finite-length jacket segment made of a high-permeability magnetic material coupled to the thermocouple probe, said jacket segment operable to move in response to the magnetic field created by the electrical current passing through the plurality of coils, and wherein the movement of the jacket also acts to alter the inductance of the coils as a function of the jacket's position relative to the coils. 42. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein said jacket segment is constrained by the probe housing to move toward said wafer and move away from said wafer. 43. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein said probe housing comprises a non-magnetic metallic material. 44. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein said probe housing further comprises a pump and purge line, said pump and purge line operable to purge said thermocouple probe during wafer processing and during in-situ calibration processes, and further operable to pump gas out of said probe housing during a pump-down process performed in said thermal processing equipment. 45. The apparatus of claim 41 further comprising a spring coupled to one end of said thermocouple probe, and said spring further coupled to a fixed location on said probe housing further away from said wafer, said spring operable to secure said thermocouple probe in a retracted mode away from said wafer during periods when no electrical current is provided to no d solenoid coils and no in-situ calibration is taking place. 46. The apparatus of claim 45 wherein said fixed location further comprises a cap operable to provide a vacuum-grade seal at the top of the probe housing. 47. The apparatus of claim 45 further comprising a stopper mechanism operable to hold said thermocouple probe stationary in a known axial position when said thermocouple probe is in a retracted position. 48. The apparatus of claim 41 further comprising a magnetic spring, said magnetic spring comprising: an outer permanent magnet coupled to said probe housing above said solenoid coils with a defined polarity; and an inner permanent magnet coupled to said thermocouple probe at a position above the jacket segment, and wherein the interaction between the outer permanent magnet and the inner permanent magnet holds said thermocouple probe at a stationary position when said thermocouple probe is in a retracted position. 49. The apparatus of claim 48 further comprising a second jacket segment made of a high-permeability magnetic material coupled to the thermocouple probe at a lower position than said jacket segment and of a smaller finite length than said jacket segment, said lower and smaller jacket segment operable to react to a magnetic field produced by said solenoid coils to position the thermocouple probe so that said interaction between the outer permanent magnet and the inner permanent magnet holds said thermocouple probe at a known stationary position. 50. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said actuator positions said thermocouple probe to contact the front side of said substrate during the calibration cycle. 