A method for chemical vapor deposition includes dispensing a precursor to a vaporizer positioned within a vaporization chamber and delivering a vapor to a process chamber without a carrier gas. A flow meter is positioned within the delivery conduit for measuring the flow rate of precursor through the delivery conduit. A flow controller is likewise positioned within the delivery conduit for controlling the flow of precursor in response to the measured flow rate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for forming a material over a semiconductor substrate in a process chamber by chemical vapor deposition, comprising the steps of: vaporizing a precursor in a vaporization chamber to generate a gas; delivering the gas to the process chamber, along a gas flow path without a carrier gas at a controlled temperature and pressure, measuring gas flow rate through the gas flow path extending between the vaporization chamber and the process chamber containing the semiconductor substrate, the gas flow path having a first pressure sensor and a second pressure sensor; and controlling the gas flow rate between the vaporization chamber and the process chamber in response to the measured gas flow rate to form a material over the substrate. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of inducing a reaction of the vaporized precursor and depositing the precursor or a component of the precursor on the substrate in the process chamber. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising dispensing the precursor from a reservoir onto a vaporizer. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising measuring the gas flow rate between the vaporization chamber and the process chamber with a pair of capacitance manometers positioned at opposite ends of a laminar flow element. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of measuring pressure in the process chamber. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising measuring a pressure in the process chamber with a third pressure sensor on a first side of a showerhead and measuring a pressure with a fourth sensor on a second side of the showerhead. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of controlling gas flow through passages in the showerhead by regulating the opening of valves positioned at the passages. 8. The method of claim 3, further comprising measuring pressure in the vaporization chamber and dispensing a precursor onto the vaporizer such that the dispensing step is controlled as a function of the measured pressure in the vaporization chamber. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising heating a delivery conduit through which the gas flows. 10. The method of claim 3, further comprising generating an electromagnetic field in a substrate chuck positioned in the process chamber. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein a vapor generated by the vaporizer passes substantially undiluted into the process chamber. 12. A method for depositing a thin film over a semiconductor substrate, comprising the steps of: measuring a vapor pressure of a precursor with a first pressure sensor; controlling a vaporization rate at which the precursor is vaporized in a vaporization chamber in response to the measured vapor pressure; measuring a gas flow rate at which the vaporized precursor flows between the vaporization chamber and a process chamber using a second pressure sensor that measures gas pressure at a first end of a flow tube and a third pressure sensor that measures gas pressure at a second end of the flow tube; delivering the vaporized precursor from the flow tube into the process chamber with a delivery conduit without a carrier gas; and reacting the vaporized precursor in the process chamber to produce a reaction product that is deposited over the semiconductor substrate. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the precursor is dispensed from a reservoir onto a vaporizer at a rate set as a function of the measured pressure. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the vapor flow rate between the vaporization chamber and the process chamber is measured by a pair of capacitance manometers positioned at opposite ends of a laminar flow element. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of measuring vapor pressure in the process chamber. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the vapor pressure in the process chamber is measured on opposite sides of a showerhead. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising the step of controlling vapor flow through passages in the showerhead by regulating the openings of valves positioned at the passages. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein the vapor pressure of the precursor is measured in the vaporization chamber. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein the vapor generated by the vaporizer passes substantially undiluted through the process chamber. 20. A method for chemical vapor deposition of a thin film over a substrate comprising the steps of: delivering a precursor from a reservoir into a vaporization chamber; measuring a vapor pressure of a precursor with a first pressure sensor; controlling a vaporization rate at which the precursor is vaporized in response to the measured vapor pressure; measuring a gas flow rate of the vaporized precursor that is flowing through a flow tube using a second pressure sensor to measure gas pressure at a first end of the flow tube and a third pressure sensor that measures gas pressure at a second end of the flow tube; delivering the vaporized precursor into a process chamber at a controlled rate without a carrier gas; and reacting the vaporized precursor in the process chamber to produce a reaction product that is deposited over the substrate, the pressure of the vaporized precursor in the process chamber being measured with a fourth pressure sensor. 