A hidden storage system incorporated in the bed of a vehicle without altering the bed's external appearance. The storage system is located adjacent the wheel well sections of the bed, and uses hinges to open and close the fender/side panel of the bed. Since the storage system does not alter the truck's external appearance, it reduces the attraction for theft. Also, since the storage area does not extend inwardly beyond the conventional wheel wells, the storage system leaves most of the truck bed free for use. The hidden storage system is incorporated into the bed by either an initial fabrication method or a conversion method using an existing bed. The hidden storage system may consist of a single assembly composed of a storage box and hinged side panel location on at least one side of the bed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A conventional pickup truck bed adapted to be mounted on wheels having conventional fender/side panels, and a hidden storage system located intermediate said conventional fender/side panels and which does not substantially alter an external appearance of said conventional fender/side panels when compared to fender/side panels of a substantially identical pickup truck bed, said hidden storage system comprising: at least one storage box having an interior mounted within and on at least one side of said pickup truck bed and having an opening adjacent one of said conventional fender/side panels; at least two portions of said one of said conventional fender/side panels on said at least one side of said pickup truck bed being horizontally hinged, whereby said hinged conventional fender/side panel portions can be raised or lowered to expose the interior of said storage box and lowered or raised to cover the interior of said storage box; and a lock and latch mechanism mounted to releasably secure said hinged conventional fender/side panel portions. 2. The conventional pickup truck bed of claim 1, wherein said bed further includes a pair of wheel wells, and wherein said at least one storage box covers at least one of said wheel wells and extends forward and rearward therefrom. 3. The conventional pickup truck bed of claim 2, wherein said at least one storage box has a height less than a height of said bed. 4. The conventional pickup truck bed of claim 3, wherein said lock and latch mechanism is unexposed to an external view and mounted to said at least one storage box and includes a plurality of latch members adapted to cooperate with latch members secured to said conventional fender/side panel portions. 5. The conventional pickup truck bed of claim 4, wherein said at least one storage box is provided with at least one shelf therein. 6. The conventional pickup truck bed of claim 5, wherein each side of said pickup truck bed is provided with one said storage box having an interior, one said unexposed lock and at least latch mechanism, and said hinged conventional fender/side panel portions. 7. The conventional pickup truck bed of claim 1, wherein said lock and latch mechanism is unexposed to an external view and selected from the group consisting of mechanically activated mechanisms and electrically activated mechanisms. 8. The conventional pickup truck bed of claim 7, wherein said lock and latch mechanism includes a lock release mechanism located on said at least one storage vehicle box or in a cab of a pickup truck on which said vehicle bed is mounted. 9. The conventional pickup truck bed of claim 1, additionally including at least one strut assembly operatively connected to retain at least one of said conventional fender/side panel portions in a raised position. 10. The conventional pickup truck bed of claim 9, wherein said strut assembly is provided with means selected from the group consisting of insulating means, heating means, and heating and insulating means. 11. The conventional pickup truck bed of claim 9, wherein said at least one storage box is provided with a plurality of means for storage therein selected from the group consisting of shelves, adjustable shelves, slideable shelves, and compartments. 12. The conventional pickup truck bed of claim 1, wherein said one conventional fender/side panel additionally includes at least another portion thereof which is hinged such that said at least another portion can be lowered or raised to expose the interior of said storage box. 13. The conventional pickup truck bed of claim 12, wherein said one conventional fender/side panel includes at least two additional portions hinged to enable raising each, lowering each, or raising one and lowering the other. 14. The pickup truck bed of claim 1, wherein said at least one storage box and or adjacent conventional fender/side panels are constructed to define a single assembly. 15. In a conventional pickup truck, a hidden storage/utility bed including at least one hinged side panel, at least one storage box located within said bed and having an opening therein located adjacent said hinged side panel, a lock/latch mechanism for said hinged side panel, and constructed to not substantially alter an external appearance thereof when compared to an external appearance of a substantially identical conventional pickup truck without said hidden storage/utility bed, the improvement comprising: said at least one hinged side panel including at least one hinged section mounted to open upwardly or downwardly. 16. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 15, wherein said at least one hinged side panel includes at least two hinged sections. 17. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 16, wherein said two hinged sections are constructed to open in a direction selected from the group consisting of opening upward, opening downward, and opening upward and one opening downward. 18. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 16 wherein said at least two hinged sections of said at least one side panel are constructed to extend horizontally along a length of said side panel. 19. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 16, wherein said at least two hinged sections of said at least one side panel are constructed to extend vertically with respect to said storage box. 20. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 15, wherein said at least one hinged section of said at least one hinged side panel is provided with at least one strut assembly for retaining said one hinged section in an open position. 21. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 20, wherein said strut assembly is selected from the group of assemblies consisting of insulated, heated, and heated and insulated. 22. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 15, wherein said at least one storage box is provided with at least one shelf, and with at least one drain/air relief valve assembly located in a bottom section of said storage box. 23. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 15, wherein said at least one storage box is provided with at least one component selected from the group consisting of shelves, compartments, adjustable shelves, slideable shelves, and movable shelves. 24. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 15, wherein said at least one storage box has a length which extends along a length of said at least one hinged side panel. 25. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 15, wherein said at least one hinged side panel includes a plurality of said hinged sections, and wherein said at least one storage box has a length which extends along a length of said plurality of hinged sections of said side panel. 26. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 15, wherein said lock/latch mechanism is hidden and is selected from the group consisting of mechanically activated mechanisms and electrically activated mechanisms. 27. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 15, wherein said at least one hinged side panel and said at least one storage box are composed of a single assembly. 28. A pickup truck bed adapted to be mounted on wheels having conventional fender/side panels, a pair of wheel wells, and a hidden storage system which does not substantially alter an external appearance of said conventional fender/side panels when compared to fender/side panels of a substantially identical bed, said hidden storage system including: at least one storage box having an interior mounted on at least one side of said pickup truck bed and having an opening adjacent one of said conventional fender/side panels; said at least one storage box, said one of said conventional fender/side panels, and one of said pair of wheel wells being composed of a single assembly, at least two portions of said one of said conventional fender/side panels on said at least one side of said pickup truck bed being hinged to open outwardly, whereby said hinged conventional fender/side panel portions can be opened to expose at least a portion of the interior of said storage box and closed to cover the interior of said storage box, and a lock and latch mechanism mounted to releasably secure said hinged conventional fender/side panel portions. 29. The pickup truck bed of claim 28, wherein said single assembly of said hidden storage system is mounted on both sides of said pickup truck bed, each single assembly being provided with at least two said hinged portions of each said fender/side panel, and each single assembly being provided with one said lock and latch mechanism. 