A robotic wafer handler is mounted on a central platform of a cluster tool for transporting wafers between loading and processing stations. The wafer handler includes a main arm that is rotatable around a vertical axis, translatable along the vertical axis, and translatable along a horizontal axis that rotates with the main arm around the vertical axis. An auxiliary arm is translatable along the horizontal axis relative to the main arm between extended and retracted positions. In the extended position, an end effector of the auxiliary arm is aligned with an end effector of the main arm for retrieving or replacing wafers with the auxiliary arm. In the retracted position, the end effector of the auxiliary arm is withdrawn for retrieving or replacing wafers with the main arm.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic handler mountable on a platform that interconnects loading and processing stations of a tool for processing wafers comprising: a main arm mountable on the platform and having a first end effector for supporting a first wafer; a first drive for rotating said main arm with respect to the platform around a first axis; a second drive for translating said main arm with respect to the platform along said first axis; a third drive for translating said main arm with respect to the platform along a second axis that rotates with said main arm around said first axis; an auxiliary arm supported and guided by a linear bearing of said main arm and having a second end effector for supporting a second wafer; a fourth drive for translating said auxiliary arm along said linear bearing of said main arm along said second axis; and a controller that operates said drives for retrieving the second wafer from one of the stations and depositing the first wafer in the same station at a given angular position of said main arm. 2. The robotic handler of claim 1 in which said auxiliary arm is movable between two positions along said second axis; and in a first of said two positions, said first and second end effectors are aligned with each other along said first axis for using said auxiliary arm to deposit the second wafer within the station. 3. The robotic handler of claim 2 in which a second of said two positions of the auxiliary arm provides clearance between said first and second end effectors along said second axis for using said main arm to deposit the first wafer within the station. 4. The robotic handler of claim 3 in which said main arm is movable along said first axis through a first distance sufficient to position said first end effector in a space previously occupied by said second end effector for using the main arm to deposit the first wafer within the station. 5. The robotic handler of claim 4 in which said first and second end effectors have respective wafer-carrying surfaces that are spaced at a second distance from each other along said first axis. 6. The robotic handler of claim 5 in which said first distance is not less than said second distance. 7. The robotic handler of claim 6 further comprising a second auxiliary arm operationally connected to said main arm and having a third end effector for supporting a third wafer. 8. The robotic handler of claim 7 further comprising a fifth drive for translating said second auxiliary arm with respect to said main arm along said second axis. 9. The robotic handler of claim 8 in which said first distance through which said main arm is movable along said first axis is sufficient to position said first end effector in a space previously occupied by said third end effector for depositing the first wafer within the station. 10. The robotic handler of claim 9 in which said third end effector has a carrying surface that is spaced from the carrying surface of the second end effector through a third distance that is approximately equal to said second distance. 11. The robotic handler of claim 10 in which said first distance is not less than a sum of said second and third distances. 12. The robotic handler of claim 6 further comprising a loading station having wafer supports that are spaced at a fourth distance. 13. The robotic handler of claim 12 in which said second and fourth distances are approximately equal. 14. The robotic handler of claim 1 in which said first drive rotates said main arm together with said auxiliary arm around said first axis. 15. The robotic handler of claim 14 in which said second drive translates said main arm together with said auxiliary arm along said first axis. 16. The robotic handler of claim 15 in which said third drive translates said main arm together with said auxiliary arm along said second axis. 17. The robotic handler of claim 16 in which said linear bearing suspends said auxiliary arm from said main arm. 18. The robotic handler of claim 17 in which said fourth drive includes a linear motor actuator. 19. A central handling system for a wafer processing tool having a plurality of stations comprising: a platform for interconnecting the stations; upper and lower arms operationally connected to said platform and having respective upper and lower end effectors for supporting wafers; a first drive for collectively rotating said upper and lower arms around a vertical axis; a second drive for collectively translating said upper and lower arms along said vertical axis; a third drive for translating at least one of said upper and lower arms along a horizontal axis that is rotatable with said upper and lower arms around said vertical axis; a fourth drive for relatively retracting said lower arm with respect to said upper arm along said horizontal axis; a controller that operates said drives for relatively retracting said lower end effector with respect to said upper end effector and for lowering said upper end effector into a position occupied by said lower end effector prior to its retraction; and said lower arm suspended from said upper arm by a linear bearing. 20. The handling system of claim 19 in which said platform includes a vacuum chamber having valve gates for connecting the stations to the vacuum chamber. 21. The handling system of claim 20 in which said upper and lower end effectors are sized to fit collectively through said valve gates for removing one of the wafers and replacing it with another wafer at a single angular position of said upper and lower arms around said vertical axis. 22. The handling system of claim 21 further comprising a middle arm operationally connected to said platform and having a middle end effector for supporting a wafer. 23. The handling system of claim 22 further comprising a fifth drive for relatively retracting said middle arm with respect to said upper arm along said horizontal axis. 24. The handling system of claim 23 in which said first drive collectively rotates said upper, middle, and lower arms around said vertical axis; and said second drive collectively translates said upper, middle, and lower arms along said vertical axis. 25. The handling system of claim 24 in which said upper, middle, and lower end effectors are sized to fit collectively through said valve gates for removing one of the wafers and replacing it with another wafer at a single angular position of said upper, middle, and lower arms around said vertical axis. 26. The handling system of claim 20 in which portions of said first and second drives are separated from said vacuum chamber by a vacuum interface. 27. The handling system of claim 26 in which said third drive collectively translates said upper and lower arms along said horizontal axis. 28. The handling system of claim 27 in which said fourth drive includes a linear motor actuator for retracting said lower arm with respect to said upper arm along said horizontal axis. 29. The handling system of claim 20 in which said lower arm is relatively movable with respect to said upper arm between two positions along said horizontal axis; and in a first of said two positions, said upper and lower end effectors are aligned with each other along said vertical axis. 30. The handling system of claim 29 in which a second of said two positions of the lower arm provides clearance between said lower end effector and said valve gate to one of the stations while said upper end effector is positioned within the same station for depositing a wafer. 31. The handling system of claim 30 in which said upper and lower end effectors have respective carrying surfaces that are spaced at a fixed distance from each other along said vertical axis. 32. The handling system of claim 31 in which said upper and lower arms are movable along said vertical axis through at least said fixed distance for depositing the wafer. 33. A method of transporting wafers between stations of a multi-station tool comprising the steps of: rotating first and second arms of a robot assembly into position in front of a first processing station; extending both of the arms into the first processing station; lifting a first-processed wafer from a support within the first processing station using the second arm; relatively withdrawing the second arm with respect to the first arm; lowering an unprocessed wafer on the support within the first processing station using the first arm; withdrawing both of the arms from the first processing station; and rotating both of the arms into position in front of another station. 34. The method of claim 33 in which the another station is a second processing station, and including the further steps of: extending the first arm into the second processing station; lifting a second-processed wafer from a support within the second processing station using the first arm; relatively extending the second arm into approximate alignment with the first arm; lowering the first-processed wafer on the support within the second processing station using the second arm; withdrawing both of the arms from the second processing station; and rotating both of the arms into position in front of yet another station. 35. The method of claim 33 in which the another station is a loading station, and including the further steps of: extending both arms into the unloading station; lowering two of the second-processed wafers onto supports within the loading station using both arms; and withdrawing both arms from the loading station. 36. The method of claim 33 in which the robot assembly includes a third arm, and including the initial steps of: rotating all three arms into position in front of a loading station; extending all three arms into the loading station; picking three unprocessed wafers from the loading station using the first, second, and third arms; withdrawing all three arms from the loading station; and rotating all three arms into position in front of the first processing station. 