A Diffuse Reflective Light Curtain System comprises at least one light curtain defining a border of a work zone for a robotic machine. Each light curtain comprises a primary board having multiple wells formed therein. Light emitting diodes (LEDs) and light detectors are alternately placed in the multiple wells. The LEDs shine light up from the wells to form a curtain of light above the primary board. If an object comes into contact with the curtain of light emitted from the LEDs, the light is reflected back to toward the board and enters the wells of the board where the light detectors sense the presence of LED light. When the light detectors in the wells sense the presence of LED light, they send a signal to a controller to indicate that the light curtain has been breached by a foreign object. The controller, in turn, suspends the operation of the robotic machine that is protected by the light curtain. If multiple light curtains are used to define a plurality of work zones, sensors may be connected to the controller to determine the physical position of the robotic machine. The controller selectively enables or disables each of the light curtains based upon inputs received from the sensors to allow for foreign objects to enter particular work zones at different times during the operation of the robotic machine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A light curtain system for detecting entry of an object into a protected space having a first boundary and an opposite boundary defining an entry into the protected space, the light curtain system comprising: a. a robotic machine operable to move within the protected space; b. at least one light emission device positioned on the first boundary of the entry into the protected space and projecting light toward the opposite boundary of the entry into the protected space; c. a plurality of light detection devices positioned on the first boundary of the protected space, the plurality of detection devices for detecting light reflected from the object entering the protected space; and d. an intrusion alarm operable to suspend operation of the robotic machine upon detection by at least one of the plurality of detection devices of light reflected from the object entering the protected space. 2. The light curtain system of claim 1 wherein the at least one light emission device comprises a plurality of light emission devices arranged to define at least a first protected zone and a second protected zone within the protected space. 3. The light curtain system of claim 2 further comprising a controller operable to selectively activate or deactivate each of the plurality of light emission devices, thereby allowing the object to enter the first protected zone without operation of the intrusion alarm while restricting the object from the second protected zone by operating the intrusion alarm upon entry into the second protected zone. 4. The light curtain system of claim 3 further comprising a primary board wherein light emission devices and light detection devices are positioned upon the primary board. 5. The light curtain system of claim 4 further comprising at least one secondary board connected to the primary board wherein light emission devices and light detection devices are positioned upon the at least one secondary board. 6. The light curtain system of claim 4 wherein the primary board comprises a plurality of wells such that light emission devices and light detection devices are alternately positioned within the plurality of wells. 7. The light curtain system of claim 5 wherein the at least one secondary board comprises a plurality of wells such that light emission devices and light detection devices are alternately positioned within the plurality of wells. 8. The light curtain system of claim 5 further comprising at least one connector for connecting the primary board to the at least one secondary board. 9. The light curtain system of claim 8 wherein the primary board may be connected to the at least one secondary board in a linear fashion. 10. The light curtain system of claim 8 wherein the primary board may be connected to the at least one secondary board at an angle. 11. The light curtain system of claim 8 wherein the at least one secondary board comprises multiple secondary boards and the at least one connector comprises multiple connectors, and each secondary board is connected to another secondary board by a connector. 12. The light curtain system of claim 11 wherein the secondary boards may be connected to each other in a linear fashion. 13. The light curtain system of claim 11 wherein the secondary boards may be connected to each other at an angle. 14. The light curtain system of claim 6 wherein one of the plurality of wells contains both a light emission device and a light detection device. 15. The light curtain system of claim 1 wherein an electrical voltage is supplied to the at least one light emission device and the at least one light emission device projects light toward the opposite boundary of the entry into the protected space for a useful distance, the useful distance being dependent upon the electrical voltage supplied to the at least one light emission device. 16. The light curtain system of claim 15 further comprising a means for adjusting the electrical voltage supplied to the at least one light emitter. 17. A light curtain comprising: a. a primary board having at least three wells, each well including a well opening and a well bottom, b. a first light detector positioned within a first of the plurality of wells, the light detector oriented to receive light entering the well through the well opening; c. a first light emitter positioned within a second of the at least three wells, the light emitter oriented to emit light through the well opening; d. a second light detector and a second light emitter both positioned within a third of the at least three wells, the second light detector positioned within the same well as the second light emitter to sense whether the second light emitter is emitting light; and e. an intrusion alarm activated upon the detection of light by the first light detector and also activated when the second light detector does not detect light. 18. A method of detecting entry of an object into a protected space where a robotic machine moves, the method comprising the steps of: a. providing at least one light emitter, the light emitter emitting light which defines at least one border of the protected space; b. providing at least one light detector next to the at least one light emitter; c. allowing the object to enter the protected space by contacting the border of the protected space; d. detecting light that is emitted from the light emitter and reflected from the object to the at least one light detector when the object contacts the border of the protected space; e. causing the at least one light detector to send a signal indicating a breach of the protected space by the object; and f. activating an intrusion alarm to suspend movement of the robotic machine. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein at least one light emitter comprises multiple light emitters defining multiple borders of the protected space. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising after step a., the step of selectively activating or deactivating each of the multiple light emitters which define one of the multiple borders. 21. The method of claim 18 wherein step a. further comprises situating the at least one light emitter in at least one well. 22. The method of claim 18 wherein step a. further comprises providing a voltage to the at least one light emitter such that adjustment of the voltage provided to the at least one light emitter adjusts the border of the protected space. 23. A method of detecting entry of objects into a protected space where a robotic machine operates, the method comprising the steps of: a. providing a first light curtain which defines a first zone within the protected space whereby activation of the first light curtain allows the first light curtain to detect an object entering the first zone; b. providing a second light curtain which defines a second zone within the protected space whereby activation of the second light curtain allows the second light curtain to detect the object entering the first zone; c. activating the first light curtain and the second light curtain when both the first zone and the second zone are to be used for operation of the robotic machine; d. deactivating the first light curtain and activating the second light curtain when only the second zone is to be used for operation of the robotic machine, thereby allowing the object to enter the first zone without detection by the first light curtain; and e. operating an intrusion alarm upon detection by the first light curtain or the second light curtain that the object has entered the protected space. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the intrusion alarm suspends operation of the robotic machine. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein the first light curtain provided in step a. comprises at least one board having a plurality of wells with a light emitter or a light detector positioned within each of the plurality of wells. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein step a. further comprises providing a voltage to the light emitter such that adjustment of the voltage provided to the light emitter adjusts the size of the first zone. 