Disclosed is an optimal arbitrary time-delay (OAT) filter to shape input signals by which a controlled motion is actuated in a physical system. The filter minimizes unwanted dynamics from being created by the actuation of the controlled movement in the physical system. The filter generally comprises three coefficients which are multiplied by the discrete samples of the input signal in a digital filter performing a convolution function. The samples multiplied by the three coefficients are separated by an arbitrary time delay. In this manner, three separate signals are generated. The results of these multiplication operations are summed in real time, thereby generating a filtered input signal which is sent to actuate the controlled motion of the physical system with minimal unwanted dynamics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A digital filter operated on a digital logic circuit to minimize unwanted dynamics in a response of a physical system to a desired motion signal input, comprising: a filtered motion signal input being equal to a summation of three calculated signals, each calculated signal being a function of said desired motion signal input; and an arbitrary time delay greater than zero, wherein said calculated signals are separated by said arbitrary time delay, wherein said filtered motion signal input minimizes a number of unwanted dynamics in said response of said physical system. 2. The digital filter of claim 1, wherein each of said three calculated signals is a function of a respective coefficient, said coefficients being derived from an optimization of a cost function that defines said unwanted dynamics of said response of said physical system as a function of an instantaneous position error and an instantaneous velocity error. 3. The digital filter of claim 2, wherein: said filtered motion signal input is defined as y(t); said desired motion signal input is defined as u(t); and said coefficients are defined by C.sub.1, C.sub.2 and C.sub.3, respectively, and said summation is defined as y(t)=C.sub.1 u(t)+C.sub.2 u(t-T)+C.sub.3 u(t-2T), where u(t-T) and u(t-2T) represent a number of time-delayed values of said desired motion signal input u(t), t is time, and where T is said arbitrary time delay. 4. The digital filter of claim 3, wherein said three coefficients C.sub.1, C.sub.2 and C.sub.3, respectively are further defined for a single mode of vibration, wherein ##EQU16## where M is a scaling factor, .omega..sub.n is a natural frequency of said physical system, and .zeta. is a damping ratio of said physical system. 5. The digital filter of claim 2, wherein said cost function is defined as J(t), where J(t)=1/2e.sup.T (t)W.sub.1 e(t)+1/2e.sup.T (t)w.sub.2 e(t), and wherein said instantaneous position error is equal to e(t), said instantaneous velocity error is equal to e(t), and W.sub.1 and W.sub.2 are weighting matrices. 6. A computer readable medium comprising a program for a digital filter to minimize a number of unwanted dynamics in a response of a physical system to a desired motion signal input, the program comprising: logic for calculating a filtered motion signal input being equal to a summation of three calculated signals, each calculated signal being a function of said desired motion signal input; and said logic including an arbitrary time-delay greater than zero, wherein said calculated signals are separated by said arbitrary time-delay. 7. The computer readable medium of claim 6, wherein each of said three calculated signals is a function of a respective coefficient, said coefficients being derived from an optimization of a cost function that defines said unwanted dynamics of said response of said physical system as a function of an instantaneous position error and an instantaneous velocity error. 8. The computer readable medium of claim 7, wherein said cost function is defined as J(t), where J(t)=1/2e.sup.T (t)W.sub.1 e(t)+1/2e.sup.T (t)W.sub.2 e(t), and wherein said instantaneous position error is equal to e(t), said instantaneous velocity error is equal to e(t), and W.sub.1 and W.sub.2 are weighting matrices. 9. The computer readable medium of claim 6, further comprising: logic defining said filtered motion signal input as y(t); logic defining said desired motion signal input as u(t); logic defining said coefficients as C.sub.1, C.sub.2 and C.sub.3, respectively; and logic defining said summation as y(t)=C.sub.1 u(t)+C.sub.2 u(t-T)+C.sub.3 u(t-2T), where u(t-T) and u(t-2T) represent a number of time-delayed values of said desired motion signal input u(t), t is time, and where T is said arbitrary time delay. 10. The computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein said three coefficients C.sub.1, C.sub.2 and C.sub.3, respectively are further defined for a single mode of vibration, where ##EQU17## where M is a scaling factor, .omega..sub.n is a natural frequency of said physical system and .zeta. is a damping ratio of said physical system. 11. A method for generating a filtered motion signal input to a physical system to minimize a number of unwanted dynamics in a response of the physical system comprising the steps of: establishing a first expression quantifying the unwanted dynamics of said response of said physical system, said first expression defining said unwanted dynamics of said response as a function of an instantaneous position error and an instantaneous velocity error; minimizing said first expression to produce a filter expression, said filter expression being a function of three coefficients and an arbitrary time delay greater than zero; filtering a desired motion signal input with said filter expression, producing said filtered motion signal input; and controlling said physical system based on said filtered motion signal input whereby the unwanted dynamics are minimized. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of establishing said first expression further comprises the step of establishing said first expression as J(t)=1/2e.sup.T (t)W.sub.1 e(t)+1/2e.sup.T (t)W.sub.2 e(t), wherein J(t) is defined as a cost function associated with the physical system, t is defined as time, e(t) is defined as said instantaneous position error, e(t) is defined as said instantaneous velocity error, T is defined as said arbitrary delay, and W.sub.1 and W.sub.2 are weighting matrices. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of filtering said desired motion signal input with said filter expression further comprises the step of filtering said desired motion signal input with a filter expression that is defined as where said filtered motion signal input is defined as y(t), said desired motion signal input is defined as u(t), u(t-T) and u(t-2T) are a number of time-delayed values of said desired motion signal input u(t), said coefficients are defined as C.sub.1, C.sub.2 and C.sub.3, respectively, where t is time, and T is said arbitrary time delay. 14. A method for generating a filtered motion signal input to a physical system from a desired motion signal input to minimize a single mode of vibration in a response of the physical system, comprising the steps of: determining a natural frequency .omega..sub.n and a damping ratio .zeta. of said physical system; providing a filter expression defined as y(t)=C.sub.1 u(t)+C.sub.2 u(t-T)+C.sub.3 u(t-2T) , where said filtered motion signal input is defined as y(t), said desired motion signal input is defined as u(t), u(t-T) and u(t-2T) are a number of time-delayed values of said desired motion signal input u(t), said coefficients are defined as C.sub.1, C.sub.2 and C.sub.3, respectively, t is time, T is said arbitrary time delay greater than 0, and C.sub.1 =1/M, ##EQU18## and ##EQU19## where M is a scaling factor, generating said filtered motion signal input by filtering the desired motion signal input with said filter expression; and controlling said physical system based on said filtered motion signal input whereby said single mode of vibration is minimized. 15. A method for generating a filtered motion signal input to a physical system from a desired motion signal input to minimize multiple modes of vibration in a response of the physical system, comprising the steps of: determining a natural frequency .omega..sub.n and a damping ratio .zeta. of each of the modes of vibration of said physical system; generating multiple filter expressions for each mode of vibration, said filter expressions being defined as y(t)=C.sub.1 u(t)+C.sub.2 u(t-T)+C.sub.3 u(t-2T), where said filtered motion signal input is defined as y(t), said desired motion signal input is defined as u(t), u(t-T) and u(t-2T) are a number of time-delayed values of said desired motion signal input u(t), said coefficients are defined as C.sub.1, C.sub.2 and C.sub.3, respectively, t is time, T is said arbitrary time delay, and C.sub.1 =1/M, ##EQU20## and ##EQU21## where M is a scaling factor; generating said filtered motion signal input by filtering the desired motion signal input with said multiple filter expressions, wherein the desired motion signal input is processed by each filter expression in succession; and controlling said physical system based on said filtered motion signal input whereby said multiple modes of vibration is minimized. 16. A method for controlling a physical system to minimize unwanted dynamics in a response of the physical system, comprising the steps of: generating a desired motion signal input; convolving said desired motion signal input with a filter comprising three coefficients and an arbitrary time delay, thereby generating a filtered motion signal input; and controlling said physical system based on said filtered motion signal input . 