A method and an industrial robotic device for uniformly applying coatings at appropriate thickness and pitch upon a surface moves a spray applicator foam dispenser between two parallel tracks. The uniform application of foam at each pass is assured, by accelerating the speed of the foam dispenser at the end of each pass, by providing respective curved uphill distal ends of the tracks, so that the spray applicator foam dispenser moves up the curved distal ends and returns quickly while changing speed tilt and direction at the end of each pass.
Claims I claim: 1. A spray applicator for applying a roofing polyurethane foam coating upon a structural surface, such as a building roof or other terrestrial surfaces, comprising: a means for continuously applying said polyurethane in liquid form in adjacent extending bands of foam to form a resultant solid foam coating upon said roof, each band having a predetermined width and length, said means comprising a foam applicator source movable on a track continuously in alternate directions transverse to the width of each band of said bands of said foam; a means for subjecting said applicator source to an uphill movement, said means comprising said track being bent at respective end portions of each said transverse movement of said applicator source; said foam applicator source being titled outwardly by said track as said foam applicator source moves uphill on said track, thereby reducing the amount of said liquid foam being applied to respective edge portions of each said band of foam upon the roof at an end of each pass of said liquid foam applicator source across each said band of foam; said foam applicator source being a nozzle; and, a radially extending swinging arm with a telescoping slide mechanism providing said transverse movement of said foam applicator source along said track, so that said foam applicator source moves linearly, said swinging arm pivotable about a pivot fulcrum point. 2. The spray applicator as in claim 1 further comprising a means for controlling thickness of said liquid foam upon the roof by varying a rate of flow of discharge of said liquid foam emanating from said foam applicator source, whereby ground movement speed of said transverse movements of said foam applicator source determines the weight of said coating of foam per unit area applied, to determine the thickness of said resultant solid foam coating. 3. The spray applicator as in claim 2 further comprising a means for applying a slope on the portion of said resultant solid foam coating roof, such as toward a drain, by reducing said ground movement speed of said foam applicator source on successive passes away and parallel to a drainage line of said drain, resulting in a stepwise slope approximating a predetermined contour of said drain. 4. The spray applicator as in claim 3 further comprising said foam applicator source being tilted a predetermined amount cyclically as said foam applicator source moves transversely along said track, thereby minimizing variation in foam thickness in the form of rounded ridges due to a hollow-cone pattern of the application of said liquid foam from said foam applicator source. 5. The spray applicator as in claim 1 further comprising a layer of fabric being applied from a fabric roll to said coating of liquid foam, said layer of fabric reinforcing said solid foam coating with said fabric layer, whereby during solidification of said liquid foam, said fabric layer becomes imbedded in said resultant solid foam coating. 6. The spray applicator as in claim 1 further comprising a device for applying an elastomeric sheet covering over said liquid foam coating, said sheet forming a skin over said resultant solid foam coating. 7. A spray applicator apparatus for applying sprayed coatings in linearly extending bands of predetermined widths, in uniform thicknesses upon a structural surface in field applications, such as roofing applications or pavement applications, comprising: a spray applicator vehicle having a frame; said frame supporting a movement power source, moving said vehicle, said frame further supporting at least one steerable powered wheel, and a swinging boom moving a liquid coating applicator source transversely along at least one track having first and second ends; said track having a straight portion and curved ends; said boom having a laterally movable telescoping end attachable to said liquid coating applicator source; and said track constraining movement of said liquid coating applicator source in a linear path transverse to axial movement of said frame across said structural surface and said curved ends of said track, causing said applicator source to tilt as said applicator source moves upon said curved end portions of said track. 8. The spray applicator as in claim 7 wherein said liquid coating applicator source comprises at least two separate conduits, each said conduit carrying a respective liquid, said respective liquids being mixed within a mixing discharge valve of said liquid coating applicator source for spraying said liquid coating through a nozzle from a remote pressurized source to said structural surface. 9. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 8 further comprising said mixing discharge valve being located at said nozzle just prior to a discharge output of said nozzle, wherein said mixing valve mixes said liquids to chemically cause an exothermic foaming and hardening reaction of said sprayed coatings from a liquid foam into a resultant solid foam. 10. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 9 further comprising a solenoid actuated by a switch in a control unit operating said mixing discharge valve at said nozzle. 11. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 7 further comprising a means to limit the amount of liquid coating discharged to prevent a double coating at respective edges of a layer of said coating, said means comprising at least one geometrically varied track having a linear portion extending transverse to said layer of coating in a middle of a transverse sweep of said liquid coating applicator source, said at least one geometrically variable track being curved at respective distal ends thereof in a constant radius, whereby said curved distal ends limit travel of said liquid coating applicator, whereby the speed of said liquid coating applicator source is accelerated at respective ends of transverse travel upon said at least one track due to the greater distance traveled per unit time on said curved distal ends of said track, as well as due to change in direction. 12. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 11 wherein said track comprises a pair of rails, said liquid coating applicator source riding upon a carriage moveable upon said pair of rails. 13. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 8 further comprising a nutating means automatically moving said liquid coating applicator source through an adjustable stroke transverse to said at least one track several times on each pass of said liquid coating applicator to counteract variations in layer thicknesses resulting from a hollow cone spray pattern of said liquid coating applicator source. 14. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 13 wherein said nutating means is an oscillator. 15. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 13 wherein said nutating means comprises a first bracket with a pivot therein, said first bracket holding a nozzle of said liquid foam applicator source, said first bracket fastenable to a carriage plate carrying said nozzle; said nutating means further having a push-pull coupling assembly including a housing with a coupling therein, said coupling actuating cyclic motion of a holder for said nozzle; said nutating means having a powering end connected to said coupling, said nutating means having a further bracket attached to said frame of said spray applicator apparatus in the vicinity of a gear box; said nutating means further having a pivotable cam follower pivotable about a pivot point within an adjustment slot; said cam follower biased toward a multiple lobe cam by a spring, wherein a stroke of a said coupling controlling the amount of cyclic tilt of said nozzle is determined by predetermined dimensions and geometry of said cam follower and a predetermined depth of each lobe on said cam; wherein a predetermined centering of motion of said nozzle is adjusted by moving said pivot point within said slot; said cam being attachable to an output shaft of said gear box, said nozzle being cycled by movement of each said cam lobe as said multiple lobe cam rotates; wherein movement of said cam follower out of contact with said multiple lobe cam and tightening said cam follower in a locked position defeats said pivoting of said nozzle, thereby locking said nozzle in a vertical spray position to deactivate said nutating means. 16. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 15 wherein said coupling is a cable wire. 17. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 16 wherein said remote communications means is a radio communications channel. 18. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 13 wherein said nutating means is a crank coupling and gear motor assembly connected to said liquid coating applicator source, wherein a stroke of said crank coupling controls the amount of cyclic tilt of a nozzle of said liquid coating applicator source. 19. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 8 wherein said movement power source further comprises a remote control communicating with said movement power source to move said spray applicator remotely. 20. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 19 wherein said remote control device comprises a hand-held remote control box with a face plate and a plurality of functional units; said at least one steerable wheel being controllable by an electric steering ram, said electric steering ram controllable by a positional steering control setting the position of a steered wheel to match that of a steering control wheel connected to said at least one steerable wheel; and said remote control device communicating with said power source via a remote communications means. 21. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 19 wherein said remote communications means is a coiled cable. 22. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 8 wherein said vehicle is assembled and disassembled as a modular unit for easy transport to the roof of a building on an elevator or by using a winch, further comprising: said boom being alternately attachable to and removable from said frame of said vehicle by removal of a fastener therebetween; said liquid coating applicator source being alternately attached to and removable from said at least one track; said at least one track being removable from said frame by removing a first further fastener therebetween; said at least one steerable powered wheel being attachable to a driven wheel subassembly including an operator seat and a steering wheel, said driven wheel subassembly being alternately attachable to and removable from said frame by removal of a second further fastener therebetween; said power source having a plurality of electrical connections, connecting said applicator source, said power source and said at least one powered wheel; wherein upon disassembly of said modular unit, said boom, said liquid coating applicator source, said at least one track, said frame, said at least one steerable powered wheel, said driven wheel subassembly, including said operator seat and said steering wheel, are transportable separately to said roof for reassembly of said modular unit thereat. 23. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 8 wherein said power source comprises a control box removably attachable to said frame, said control box connectable to standard AC mains via an electrical connection, said power source further comprising a motor; said control box having at least one AC/DC converter supplying current to at least one DC load; said power source having an AC power switch controlling power to said spray applicator apparatus; said at least one converter supplying DC power to a uni-directional speed control with a digital speed indicator and a speed set control, maintaining constant output speed of said motor for swinging of said boom via a feedback from a motor mounted encoder; said power source having a switch controlling power to a solenoid which said solenoid opens said discharge valve of a said nozzle of said liquid coating application source; said power source having a further converter supply DC power to a bi-directional PID speed control with a digital speed indicator and a speed set control, said speed set control accurately and repeatedly maintaining the ground speed in either direction of said spray applicator apparatus as set under varying load conditions by virtue of said motor mounted feedback encoder, for determining the thickness of the resulting sprayed membrane of foam; said power source having a further control switch determining the direction of movement as forward or reverse; and said power source having a second bi-directional speed control for quickly selecting a desired ground speed via an optional manual control when it is desired to maneuver said spray applicator apparatus prior or after an application of said liquid coating. 24. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 8 further comprising a means for adhesively bonding a sheet of an elastomeric roofing substrate membrane. 25. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 24 wherein said means for adhesively bonding a sheet of elastomeric roofing substrate membrane comprises a roll of elastomeric sheet being pivotable at an end of a pair of linking arms connecting said roll to said frame; said roll being urged flat by a trailing weighted roller applying even pressure to said sheet layer, said liquid coating applicator source spraying a layer of bonding adhesive, which said adhesive bonds said roof surface to said sheet. 26. The spray applicator apparatus as in claim 9 further comprising a means for reinforcing said liquid coating with reinforcing fabric, said means comprising a roll of fabric pivotable at an end of a pair of linking arms connecting said roll to said frame; said fabric being urged flat by a trailing weighted roller applying even pressure to said fabric, said fabric being applied into said applied liquid foam before said coating rises to a resultant solid coating wherein said reinforcing fabric is embedded in said resultant solid coating. 27. An industrial robotic device for applying coatings in uniform thicknesses and at appropriate angles of pitch, in field applications comprising: a movable spray applicator dispenser including at least one nozzle for discharge of a foam coating to a surface, said spray applicator movable along at least one linear track having a curved surface, said at least one linear track engagable with a corresponding curved surface of at least one wheel attached to said foam applicator, wherein the curved surfaces of the at least one linear track comprises arcuate uphill distal end portions of said track, wherein said movable spray applicator dispenser, moving along said at least one linear track, tilts and accelerates in speed as said movable spray applicator dispenser rolls up each respective said curved uphill portions, thereby reducing the amount of foam applied to an edge portion of the roof at the end of a pass of said movable spray applicator dispenser; and, a radially extending swinging arm providing transverse sideways movement of said movable spray applicator dispenser along said at least one track. 28. The device as in claim 27, wherein a telescoping slide mechanism is provided, so that said movable spray applicator dispenser moves linearly as said swinging arm pivots about a pivot fulcrum point. 