An apparatus for selecting a consumable welding wire from a plurality of consumable welding wires. The apparatus has a base, and a drive wheel rotatably supported by the base for engaging a consumable welding wire. A plurality of pinch-roller arms is pivotally secured to the base, and a plurality of pinch rollers is rotatably secured to the plurality of pinch-roller arms. The apparatus also includes a plurality of spring assemblies supported by the base for biasing the plurality of pinch-roller arms. A plurality of pneumatic cylinder assemblies engage the base and the pinch-roller arms for moving the pinch-roller arms relative to the base. A method for selecting any one of a plurality of consumable welding wires comprising pivoting a pinch-roller assembly to cause a rotatable pinch roller to engage and hold a consumable welding wire in driving engagement with a rotatable drive wheel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for selectively changing consumable welding wires, comprising: a base; a drive wheel rotatably secured to said base for engaging a consumable welding wire; a pinch-roller arm pivotally secured to said base ; a pinch roller rotatably secured to said pinch-roller arm for engaging the consumable welding wire; and a cylinder assembly, pivotally secured to said base, for moving said pinch-roller arm towards said base, causing the pinch roller to engage and hold the consumable welding wire in driving engagement with the drive wheel. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising a motor coupled to said drive wheel for rotating the drive wheel in a desired direction. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising a spring member supported by said base for biasing the pinch-roller arm away from the base. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 additionally comprising a spring member supported by said base for biasing the pinch-roller arm away from the base. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said base comprises a first shoulder pivotally secured to said pinch-roller arm and having a structure defining a base recess wherein said spring member lodges, and a second shoulder pivotally secured to said pneumatic cylinder assembly. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said base comprises a first shoulder pivotally secured to said pinch-roller arm and having a structure defining a base recess wherein said spring member lodges, and a second shoulder pivotally secured to said pneumatic cylinder assembly. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said first shoulder additionally includes a first bore and a first screw opening communicating with said first bore, and said second shoulder additionally includes a second bore and a second screw opening communicating with said second bore. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said cylinder assembly comprises a clevis having a clevis base, and a pair of clevis arms bound to the clevis base and pivotally secured to the base. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said cylinder assembly comprises a pneumatic cylinder assembly having a clevis including a clevis base having a clevis opening, a pair of clevis arms bound to the clevis base and pivotally secured to said second shoulder of said base, and a pneumatic cylinder supported by said clevis base and having a cylinder rod slidably passing through the clevis opening for removably engaging said pinch-roller arm. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 additionally comprising a first wire-guide conduit generally concentrically disposed in said first bore and a first set screw rotatably lodged in said first screw opening, and a second wire-guide conduit generally concentrically disposed in said second bore and a second set screw rotatably lodged in said second screw opening. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said pinch-roller arm comprises an arm lip; and said clevis arms are generally parallelly disposed with respect to each other such as to form a clevis slot therebetween; and said arm lip of said pinch-roller arm removably lodges within said clevis slot. 12. An apparatus for selectively changing consumable welding wires, comprising: a base having a base cavity; a drive wheel disposed in said base cavity and rotatably supported by said base for engaging a consumable welding wire; a pinch-roller arm pivotally secured to said base; a pinch roller rotatably secured to said pinch-roller arm for engaging the consumable welding wire; a spring assembly supported by said base for biasing said pinch-roller arm towards said base, causing the pinch roller to engage and hold the consumable welding wire in driving engagement with the drive wheel; and a cylinder assembly supported by said pinch-roller arm for moving said pinch-roller arm away from said base to cause said pinch roller to disengage and release the consumable welding wire from driving engagement with the drive wheel. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 additionally comprising a motor coupled to said drive wheel for rotating the drive wheel in a desired direction. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said spring assembly comprises a shaft pivotally connected to said base, a spring cup slidably disposed on said shaft, an adjusting nut threadably engaged to said shaft, and a spring member helically surrounding said shaft between said adjusting nut and said spring cup. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said spring assembly comprises a shaft pivotally connected to said base, a spring cup slidably disposed on said shaft, an adjusting nut threadably engaged to said shaft, and a spring member helically surrounding said shaft between said adjusting nut and said spring cup. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said pinch-roller arm has an arm opening, and said cylinder assembly comprises a pneumatic cylinder assembly having a cylinder rod retractably passing through said arm opening for retractably engaging said base. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said pinch-roller arm terminates in a bifurcated structure having a pair of arm forks wherebetween an arm slot is defined, and said shaft of said spring assembly is removably disposed within said arm slot. 18. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said pinch-roller arm terminates in a bifurcated structure having a pair of arm forks wherebetween an arm slot is defined, and said shaft of said spring assembly is removably disposed within said arm slot. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein each of said arm forks has a generally arcuate surface for engaging the spring cup to facilitate the sliding of said spring cup along said shaft and towards said adjusting nut for compressing said spring member between said spring cup and said adjusting nut. 20. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said base comprises a first shoulder pivotally secured to said pinch-roller arm, and a second shoulder pivotally secured to said spring assembly. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said first shoulder additionally includes a first bore and a first screw opening communicating with said first bore, and said second shoulder additionally includes a second bore and a second screw opening communicating with said second bore. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 additionally comprising a first wire-guide conduit generally concentrically disposed in said first bore and a first set screw rotatably lodged in said first screw opening, and a second wire-guide conduit generally concentrically disposed in said second bore and a second set screw rotatably lodged in said second screw opening. 23. An apparatus for selecting a consumable welding wire from a plurality of consumable welding wires, comprising: a base; a drive wheel rotatably supported by said base for engaging a consumable welding wire; a plurality of pinch-roller arms pivotally secured to said base; a plurality of pinch rollers rotatably secured to said plurality of pinch-roller arms; a plurality of spring assemblies supported by said base for biasing said plurality of pinch-roller arms; and a plurality of cylinder assemblies engaging the base and the plurality of pinch-roller arms for moving the pinch-roller arms relative to the base. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 additionally comprising a motor coupled to said drive wheel for rotating the drive wheel in a desired direction. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said base includes a plurality of base recesses for housing said spring assemblies. 26. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein each of said spring assemblies comprises a shaft pivotally secured to said base, a spring cup slidably disposed on said shaft, an adjusting nut threadably engaged to said shaft, and a spring member helically surrounding said shaft between said adjusting nut and said spring cup. 27. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein each of said pinch-roller arms terminates in a bifurcated structure having a pair of arm forks wherebetween an arm slot is defined. 28. An apparatus for selecting and guiding any one of a plurality of consumable welding wires to a welding wire feeder assembly, comprising: a first welding-wire source of supply having a first consumable welding wire; a second welding-wire source of supply having a second consumable welding wire; a wire changer assembly including a base, a drive wheel rotatably supported by said base for engaging the first consumable welding wire and the second consumable welding wire, a first pinch-roller arm pivotally secured to said base and having a first pinch roller rotatably secured thereto for engaging the first consumable welding wire, a second pinch-roller arm pivotally secured to said base and having a second pinch roller rotatably secured thereto for engaging the second consumable welding wire, a first spring assembly supported by said base for biasing the first pinch-roller arm, a second spring assembly supported by said base for biasing the second pinch-roller arm, a first cylinder releasably engaging said first pinch-roller arm for moving said first pinch-roller arm relative to said base to cause said first pinch roller to releasably engage the first consumable welding wire, a second cylinder releasably engaging said second pinch-roller arm for moving said second pinch-roller arm relative to said base to cause said second pinch roller to releasably engage the second consumable welding wire; an aligning assembly slidably contacting said first consumable welding wire and said second consumable welding wire and capable of passing only one of said first consumable welding wire and said second consumable welding wire; and a welding wire feeder assembly supporting said aligning assembly for receiving only one of said first consumable welding wire and said second consumable welding wire. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 additionally comprising a welding gun assembly coupled to said welding wire feeder assembly, and said welding wire feeder assembly feeds only one of said first consumable welding wire and said second consumable welding wire to said welding gun assembly. 30. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said aligning assembly comprises a funnel-shaped cone member having a cone opening for allowing passage of only one of said first consumable welding wire and said second consumable welding cone at a time. 31. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said aligning assembly comprises a funnel-shaped cone member having a cone opening for allowing passage of only one of said first consumable welding wire and said second consumable welding wire at a time; a first conduit member coupled to said funnel-shaped cone member and having said first consumable welding wire slidably passing therethrough for entering the funnel-shaped cone member and for subsequently passing through the cone opening; and a second conduit member coupled to said funnel-shaped cone member and having said second consumable welding wire slidably passing therethrough for entering the funnel-shaped cone member and for subsequently passing through the cone opening. 32. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said first welding-wire source of supply comprises a first reel stand; a first reel wound with said first consumable welding wire and rotatably supported by said first reel stand; a first brake assembly supported by said first reel stand for releasably engaging said first consumable welding wire wound on said first reel; and a first container coupled to said first reel stand and including a first container recess disposed under said first reel for providing a first zone for accumulating said first consumable welding wire when a direction of movement of the first consumable welding wire is towards said first reel. 33. A method for selecting any one of a plurality of consumable welding wires comprising the steps of: (a) providing a wire changer assembly having a rotatable drive wheel, a first pinch-roller assembly having a first rotatable pinch roller spaced from said rotatable drive wheel, and a second pinch-roller assembly having a second rotatable pinch roller spaced from said rotatable drive wheel; (b) passing a first consumable welding wire between the rotatable drive wheel and the first rotatable pinch roller of the first pinch-roller assembly; (c) passing a second consumable welding wire between the rotatable drive wheel and the second rotatable pinch roller of the second pinch-roller assembly; and (d) pivoting the first pinch-roller assembly, causing the first rotatable pinch roller to engage and hold the first consumable welding wire in driving engagement with the rotatable drive wheel. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein said providing step (a) additionally comprises providing a first spring member for biasing said first pinch-roller assembly away from said rotatable drive wheel, and a second spring member for biasing said second pinch-roller assembly away from said rotatable drive wheel. 35. The method of claim 33 additionally comprising sensing when the first consumable welding wire contacts a contact plate and transmitting a signal to a control assembly which turns off a motor to a wire feeder and activates a trimmer to cut the first consumable welding wire. 36. A method for selecting any one of a plurality of consumable welding wires comprising the steps of: (a) providing a wire changer assembly having a rotatable drive wheel, a first pinch-roller assembly having a first pinch roller and being biased for said first pinch roller engaging and holding a first consumable welding wire in driving engagement with said drive wheel, and a second pinch-roller assembly having a second pinch roller and being biased for said second pinch roller engaging and holding a second consumable welding wire in driving engagement with said drive wheel; and (b) pivoting the second pinch-roller assembly, causing the second pinch roller to disengage and release the second consumable welding wire from driving engagement with said drive wheel and allowing the first consumable welding wire to be moved when said drive wheel is rotated. 