An apparatus is provided for observing a hostile environment, comprising a housing and a camera capable of insertion within the housing. The housing is a double wall assembly with an inner and outer wall with an hermetically sealed chamber therebetween. A housing for an optical system used to observe a hostile environment is provided, comprising a transparent, double wall assembly. The double wall assembly has an inner wall and an outer wall with an hermetically sealed chamber therebetween. The double wall assembly has an opening and a void area in communication with the opening. The void area of the housing is adapted to accommodate the optical system within said void area. An apparatus for protecting an optical system used to observe a hostile environment is provided comprising a housing; a tube positioned within the housing; and a base for supporting the housing and the tube. The housing comprises a double wall assembly having an inner wall and an outerwall with an hermetically sealed chamber therebetween. The tube is adapted to house the optical system therein.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for observing a hostile environment, comprising: a housing comprising: a double wall assembly having an inner wall forming a void area and an outer wall; and an hermetically sealed chamber between said inner wall and said outer wall; and at least one camera insertable within said housing, wherein said housing is entirely transparent. 2. A housing for an optical system used to observe a hostile environment, comprising: an entirely transparent, double wall assembly having an inner wall and an outer wall; an hermetically sealed chamber between said inner wall and said outer wall; an opening; and a void area in communication with said opening; wherein said housing is adapted to accommodate the optical system within said void area. 3. The housing for an optical system as recited in claim 2, wherein said wall assembly is formed from clear quartz. 4. The housing for an optical system as recited in claim 2, wherein said chamber is a vacuum chamber. 5. The housing for an optical system as recited in claim 2, wherein said wall assembly is test tube-shaped. 