The plant for manufacturing and packing thermoplastic tubes of the present invention is an efficient arrangement of a plurality of single machines, each one producing the same finished thermoplastic tubes as from a conventional line. The machines are arranged into small groups or production cells. The manufacturing and packing plant of the present invention is at least one production cell associated with a common product transportation line. The method of operating the plant of the present invention involves marking each tube with an indicia and identifying, recording, and monitoring each tube with an indicia.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A plant for manufacturing thermoplastic tubes having at least one production cell associated with a common product transportation line, each cell comprising: at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine, having a plurality of manufacturing stations arranged in a closed path; at least one packing machine associated with said common product transportation line; at least one extrusion machine for extruding an elongated thermoplastic hollow body which is cut into sleeves, associated with a sleeve conveyor; at least one sleeve conveyor for transporting said sleeves from said at least one extrusion machine to said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine for manufacturing tubes from said sleeves; at least one means for transporting said tubes from said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine to said at least one packing machine; and at least one means for transporting said tubes from said at least one packing machine to said common product transportation line. 2. The plant according to claim 1, wherein said at least one production cell further comprises at least one filling machine for filling said tubes with contents through an open end of each said tube and sealing said open end, and said filling machine is associated with said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine and said at least one packing machine by transportation means. 3. The plant according to claim 1, wherein said at least one means for transporting said tubes from said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine to said at least one packing machine is a tube conveyor for transporting tubes. 4. The plant according to claim 1, wherein said at least one production cell comprises a plurality of thermoplastic tube manufacturing machines arranged horizontally. 5. The plant according to claim 1, wherein said at least one production cell comprises a plurality of thermoplastic tube manufacturing machines arranged vertically. 6. The plant according to claim 1, wherein said at least one production cell comprises a plurality of thermoplastic tube manufacturing machines arranged both horizontally and vertically. 7. The plant according to claim 1, wherein all manufacturing stations of said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine are operably associated with at least one PLC device. 8. The plant according to claim 1, wherein said at least one extrusion machine, said at least one sleeve conveyor, said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine, and said at least one packing machine of said at least one production cell are all operably associated with at least one PLC device. 9. The plant according to claim 1, wherein each said at least one production cell has six thermoplastic tube manufacturing machines and one extrusion machine, one sleeve conveyor and one packing machine are provided for every three thermoplastic tube manufacturing machines. 10. A plant for manufacturing thermoplastic tubes having at least one production cell associated with a common product transportation line, each cell comprising: at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine, further comprising, an indexing device rotatable about a fixed shaft; means for supporting sleeves mounted on said indexing device for advancement along a closed path in response to rotation of said indexing device in a predetermined direction; means for loading said sleeves onto said supporting means in a first location of said closed path; means for forming a head on said sleeves to create tubes in a second location of said closed path downstream of said first location; and means for unloading said tubes from said supporting means in a third location of said closed path downstream said second location between said second and said first locations; at least one packing machine associated with said common product transportation line; at least one extrusion machine for extruding an elongated thermoplastic hollow body which is cut into sleeves, associated with a sleeve conveyor; at least one sleeve conveyor for transporting said sleeves from said at least one extrusion machine to said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine for manufacturing tubes from said sleeves; at least one means for transporting said tubes from said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine to said at least one packing machine; and at least one means for transporting said tubes from said at least one packing machine to said common product transportation line. 11. The plant according to claim 10, wherein said at least one production cell further comprises at least one filling machine for filling said tubes with contents through an open end of each said tube and sealing said open end, and said filling machine is associated with said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine and said at least one packing machine by transportation means. 12. The plant according to claim 10, wherein said at least one means for transporting said tubes from said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine to said at least one packing machine is a tube conveyor for transporting tubes. 13. The plant according to claim 10, wherein said at least one production cell comprises a plurality of thermoplastic tube manufacturing machines arranged horizontally. 14. The plant according to claim 10, wherein said at least one production cell comprises a plurality of thermoplastic tube manufacturing machines arranged vertically. 15. The plant according to claim 10, wherein said at least one production cell comprises a plurality of thermoplastic tube manufacturing machines arranged both horizontally and vertically. 16. The plant according to claim 10, wherein all manufacturing stations of said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine are operably associated with at least one PLC device. 17. The plant according to claim 10, wherein said at least one extrusion machine, said at least one sleeve conveyor, said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine, and said at least one packing machine of said at least one production cell are all operably associated with at least one PLC device. 18. The plant according to claim 10, wherein each said at least one production cell has six thermoplastic tube manufacturing machines and one extrusion machine, one sleeve conveyor and one packing machine are provided for every three thermoplastic tube manufacturing machines. 19. A plant for manufacturing thermoplastic tubes housed in a room substantially free of dust and dirt having at least one production cell associated with a common product transportation line, each cell comprising: at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine, having a plurality of manufacturing stations arranged in a closed path; at least one packing machine associated with said common product transportation line; at least one extrusion machine, for extruding an elongated thermoplastic hollow body which is cut into sleeves, associated with a sleeve conveyor; at least one sleeve conveyor for transporting said sleeves from said at least one extrusion machine to said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine for manufacturing tubes from said sleeves; at least one means for transporting said tubes from said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine to said at least one packing machine; and at least one means for transporting said tubes from said at least one packing machine to said common product transportation line. 20. The plant according to claim 19, wherein said at least one production cell further comprises at least one filling machine for filling said tubes with contents through an open end of each said tube and sealing said open end, and said filling machine is associated with said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine and said at least one packing machine by transportation means. 21. A method for operating a plant for manufacturing thermoplastic tubes having at least one production cell associated with a common product transportation line, comprising: providing at least one production cell comprising, at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine, having a plurality of manufacturing stations arranged in a closed path; at least one packing machine associated with said common product transportation line; at least one extrusion machine, for extruding an elongated thermoplastic hollow body which is cut into sleeves, associated with a sleeve conveyor; at least one sleeve conveyor for transporting said sleeves from said at least one extrusion machine to said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine for manufacturing tubes from said sleeves; at least one means for transporting said tubes from said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine to said at least one packing machine; and at least one means for transporting said tubes from said at least one packing machine to said common product transportation line; extruding said hollow thermoplastic body from said at least one extrusion machine, cutting said hollow thermoplastic body into sleeves; transporting said sleeves to said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine; loading each of said sleeves onto a manufacturing station on said at least one manufacturing machine; moving said sleeves relative to said manufacturing stations around said closed path; forming each of said sleeves into a tube; marking each of said tubes with individual indicia; recording information on each of said tubes, based on said individual indicia, by a recording means connected to a PLC device; unloading each of said tubes from said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine; identifying each of said tubes, by means of said individual indicia, by an identification means connected to the PLC device; and based on said individual indicia, directing each of said tubes to a desired location. 22. The method of operating a plant according to claim 21, which further comprises: sensing selected information from the operation of each of said manufacturing stations of said at least one thermoplastic tube manufacturing machine; generating a signal corresponding to each of said manufacturing stations based on said selected information; inputting said signals to a PLC device; and with use of said signals, controlling the operation of a corresponding manufacturing station with said PLC device. 