An end effector system adapted to be used for robotic tooling applications which allows the end effector to be used to acquire parts by vacuum pick-up or grasping. A vacuum type end effector is provided at the end of each of two robotic tooling fingers. Each vacuum type end effector includes a flexible bellows member on the end thereof such that it can be used for vacuum acquisition. Extending down from each finger to reside adjacent a respective bellows is a pinch member. Through robotic control of the movement of the fingers, finger gripping can be accomplished to grip an object between the two bellows using the pinch members for lateral support. As the part is captured between the two bellows, each bellows is compressed against its respective pinch member. In such manner, the bellows are at least partially collapsed such that a vacuum sensor located in the vacuum supply line to the bellows registers that a vacuum is present and, thus, a part has been acquired. That same vacuum sensor allows the robot to know when a part has been acquired by the bellows in the typical vacuum-type pick-up arrangement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A parts acquisition tool for robotic tooling applications comprising: (a) a first tubular finger; (b) a second tubular finger, said first and second tubular fingers residing in a generally parallel relationship to one another, said first and second tubular fingers adapted to be moved toward and away from one another; (c) a first bellows affixed to a distal end of said first tubular finger; (d) a second bellows affixed to a distal end of said second tubular finger; (e) a first pinch member extending from said first tubular finger laterally adjacent said first bellows; and (f) a second pinch member extending from said second tubular finger laterally adjacent said second bellows, said first and second bellows extending below said first and second pinch members said first and second bellows at least partially compressing against said first and second pinch members when an object is grasped between said first and second bellows. 2. A parts acquisition tool as recited in claim 1 further comprising: (a) a first vacuum sensor for sensing a vacuum in said first tubular finger; and (b) a second vacuum sensor for sensing a vacuum in said second tubular finger. 3. An end effector system for a parts acquisition tool, said end effector comprising: (a) a first tubular finger; (b) a first bellows affixed to a distal end of said first tubular finger, said first bellows having an open end; (c) a first pinch member extending from said first tubular finger adjacent said first bellows, said first bellows extending below said first pinch member; (d) a vacuum sensor for sensing a vacuum in said first tubular finger, said first tubular finger acquiring a part by vacuum acquisition when said open end is moved to a first position to contact a surface of the part, said first tubular finger acquiring the part by gripping when said first tubular finger is moved to a second position where a side of said bellows is caused to engage the part, engagement of the part causing said bellows to collapse against said pinch member. 4. An end effector system as recited in claim 3 further comprising: (a) a second tubular finger, said first and second tubular fingers residing in a generally parallel relationship to one another, said first and second tubular fingers adapted to be moved relative to one another; (b) a second bellows affixed to a distal end of said second tubular finger, said second bellows having an open end; and (c) a second pinch member extending from said second tubular finger adjacent said second bellows, said second bellows extending below said second pinch member; and (d) a vacuum sensor for sensing a vacuum in said second tubular finger, said second tubular finger acquiring the part by vacuum acquisition when said open end of said second bellows is moved to a third position to contact a surface of the part, said second tubular finger acquiring the part by gripping when said second tubular finger is moved to a fourth position where a side of said second bellows is caused to engage the part, engagement of the part causing said second bellows to collapse against said second pinch member. 5. An end effector system as recited in claim 4 further comprising: means for drawing a vacuum in said second bellows. 6. An end effector system as recited in claim 4 further comprising: means for drawing a vacuum in said first and second bellows. 7. An end effector system as recited in claim 3 further comprising: means for drawing a vacuum in said first bellows. 8. An end effector system as recited in claim 3 wherein: said first pinch member includes a lower portion partially surrounding said first bellows. 9. An end effector system as recited in claim 8 wherein: said lower portion includes at least one engaging surface disposed laterally from said bellows to engage the part when said bellows has at least partially collapsed. 10. An end effector system for a parts acquisition tool, said end effector comprising: (a) a first finger; (b) a first bellows affixed to a distal end of said first finger, said first bellows having an open end; (c) a first pinch member extending from said first finger adjacent said first bellows, said first bellows extending below said first pinch member; and (d) means for drawing a vacuum in said first bellows, said first finger acquiring a part by vacuum acquisition when said open end is moved to a first position to contact a surface of the part, said first finger acquiring the part by gripping when said first finger is moved to a second position where a side of said bellows is caused to engage the part, engagement of the part causing said bellows to collapse against said pinch member. 11. An end effector system as recited in claim 10 further comprising: a vacuum sensor for sensing a vacuum in said first bellows. 