A method for transforming a bone image data set representing at least a partial image of a long bone to a robotic coordinate system, comprising: generating the bone image data set from a bone image; registering a bone digitizer arm to the robotic coordinate system; generating a digitized bone data set by taking bone surface position measurements with the digitizer arm; and transforming the bone image data set into the robotic coordinate system by performing a best-fit calculation between coordinates of the bone image data set and corresponding coordinates of the digitized bone data set.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transforming a bone image data set representing at least a partial image of a long bone to a robotic coordinate system, comprising: providing a bone image data set comprising coordinates corresponding to a bone image; registering a bone digitizer arm to the robotic coordinate system, said digitizer arm having a plurality of position sensors; positioning the digitizer arm relative to points on the surface of the bone to generate a digitized bone data set comprising coordinates corresponding to the points; and performing a best-fit calculation between coordinates of the bone image data set and corresponding coordinates of the digitized bone data set to transform the bone image data set into the robotic coordinate system. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the bone image is provided by computerized tomography. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the bone image data set has higher resolution at distal and proximal ends of the bone. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the bone image data set represents coordinates on an outer surface of the bone. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein a threshold determination is made such that the bone image data set includes only bone tissue and excludes soft tissue. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the bone digitizer arm is registered to the robotic coordinate system by: positioning the digitizer arm relative to test structures on a test fixture to generate a digitizer arm test data set comprising coordinates corresponding to the locations of the test structures; positioning a robotic arm relative to the test structures on the test fixture to generate a robotic arm test data set comprising coordinates corresponding to the locations of the test structures; and calculating a transform relationship between the digitizer arm test data set and the robotic arm test data set. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the accuracy of the bone digitizer arm is verified by: positioning the digitizer arm relative to test structures on a test fixture to generate a digitizer arm test data set comprising coordinates corresponding to the locations of the test structures; and comparing the digitizer arm test data set to the actual positions of the test structures on the text fixture. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the accuracy of the robotic arm is verified by: positioning a robotic arm relative to test structures on a test fixture to generate a robotic arm test data set comprising coordinates corresponding to the locations of the test structures; and comparing the robotic arm test data set to the actual positions of the test structures on the text fixture. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the bone surface data comprises: selecting a bone digitizer arm having an articulated linkage with a fixed proximal end and a movable distal end; contacting the distal end of the digitizer arm against the plurality of points on an outer surface of the bone; and recording the position of the plurality of points relative to the proximal end of the bone digitizer arm. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of points on the surface of the bone comprises: medial, anterior and lateral points on a distal end of a femur bone. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the medial, anterior and lateral points are obtained by percutaneously contacting a thin probe mounted at the distal end of the digitizer arm with the surface of the femur bone. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of points on the surface of the bone comprises: a plurality of points around and adjacent to a neck of a proximal end of a femur bone. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of points on the surface of the bone comprises: a point at a top proximal end of a femur bone. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the best-fit calculation comprises minimizing the sum of the squares of the distances between the coordinates of the bone image data set and the corresponding coordinates of the digitized bone data set. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the best-fit calculation is an iterative solution which commences from a first comparison of the relative positions of: an end of the bone; a distal end centroid of the bone; and a proximal end centroid of the bone, as calculated from the bone image data set with that as calculated from the digitized bone data set. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the distal end centroid of the bone data set is calculated from the digitized bone data set coordinates comprising medial, anterior and lateral locations on a distal end of the bone. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the proximal centroid of the bone is calculated from the digitized bone data set coordinates around a neck of a proximal end of the bone. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the suitability of the digitized bone data set is determined by comparing the spatial relationship among the coordinates of the digitized bone data set to a spatial relationship among corresponding coordinates in a standard bone image data set. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the best-fit calculation is verified by determining the mean distance of the coordinates of the transformed bone image data set with respect to corresponding coordinates of the digitized bone data set. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the best-fit calculation is verified by determining the number of coordinates of the transformed bone image data set that are more than a threshold distance from the corresponding coordinates of the digitized bone data set. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the best-fit calculation is verified by determining the distance from the furthest coordinate of the transformed bone image data set to a corresponding coordinate of the digitized bone data set. 22. The method of claim 1, further comprising: subsequently to transforming the bone image data set into the robotic coordinate system, positioning the digitizer arm relative to additional points on the surface of the bone, thereby acquiring additional digitized points; and visually displaying the coordinates of the additional digitized points and the bone image on top of one another. 23. The method of claim 1, further comprising: attaching two positioning markers to the bone; and at separate intervals of time, determining the position of each positioning marker with the digitizer arm, thereby determining bone motion over time. 24. A method for transforming a bone image data set representing at least a partial image of a long bone to a robotic coordinate system, comprising: providing a bone image data set comprising coordinates corresponding to a bone image; positioning a surgical robotic arm relative to points on the surface of the bone said arm having a plurality of position sensors for generating a digitized bone data set comprising coordinates corresponding to the points; and performing a best-fit calculation between coordinates of the bone image data set and corresponding coordinates of the digitized bone data set to transform the bone image data set into the robotic coordinate system. 25. A method for transforming a bone image data set representing at least a partial image of a long bone to a robotic coordinate system, comprising: providing a bone image data set comprising coordinates corresponding to a bone image; operating a non-contact digitizing apparatus to generate a digitized bone data set representing points on the surface of the bone; and performing a best-fit calculation between coordinates of the bone image data set and corresponding coordinates of the digitized bone data set to transform the bone image data set into the robotic coordinate system. 26. A controller program for a robotic system having a surgical robotic arm operating in a robotic coordinate system and a bone digitizer arm, wherein the program transforms a bone image data set into the robotic coordinate system based upon surface location measurements generated by a plurality of position sensors in the bone digitizer arm, wherein the bone is immobilized in the robotic coordinate system. 