An integrally formed single piece light strip and light strip manufacturing system. The light strip also includes a substrate populated with a plurality of LED light circuits. A plurality of bus elements are spaced apart from one another at a predetermined distance and are in electrical communication with the plurality of light circuits. A plastic material is extruded around the plurality of light circuits and the substrate to completely encapsulates the bus elements and the plurality of light circuits to provide a protective housing. In one embodiment, an electrical connector is also integrally formed as part of the light strip to eliminate the need for separate connectors. The light strip is manufactured in a cost efficient manner, and is impervious to moisture penetration, thereby allowing the strip to be used in a variety ions and environments.
Claims We claim: 1. An integrally formed single piece light strip comprising: a continuous length of substrate populated with a plurality of light circuits; a plurality of bus elements spaced apart from one another at a predetermined distance and adhered to said substrate in electrical communication with the plurality of light circuits in a light strip circuit configuration to form an electrical current flowpath; and a plastic material extruded around said substrate and said plurality of bus elements that completely encapsulates said substrate and said plurality of bus elements, wherein the substrate matches the plastic material, the substrate melting into the plastic material as the plastic material is extruded around the substrate and that becomes integrated with said substrate to form a voidless protective housing. 2. The light strip of claim 1, wherein said substrate and said extruded plastic material are chosen from a material chosen from the group consisting essentially of, an ionomer resin, a high density polyethylene, polychlorotrifluoroethylene, polyester, and polyvinylchoride. 3. The light strip of claim 2, wherein the substrate and the plastic material are identical, the substrate melting into the plastic material as the plastic material is extruded around the substrate. 4. The light strip of claim 1, wherein said plurality of bus elements comprise: first and second bus elements spaced apart from one another at a predetermined distance and adhered to said substrate; and third and fourth bus elements located between said first and second bus elements and adhered to said substrate, said third and fourth bus elements being separated into discrete segments between said first and second ends in a predetermined circuit configuration. 5. The light strip of claim 4, wherein the plurality of light circuits are each electrically connected between corresponding segments of said second and third bus elements. 6. The light strip of claim 5, further comprising circuit connector means for completing an electrical current flowpath between said first, second, third and fourth bus elements and said plurality of light circuits. 7. The light strip of claim 5, further comprising a plurality of integrally formed light strips each being substantially identical to said integrally formed light strip and being electrically connected to one another to form a light strip system. 8. The light strip of claim 7, further comprising an electrical connector integrally formed in each of said plurality of light strips that interconnect said plurality of light strips and that connect one of said plurality of light strips to a power source. 9. The light strip of claim 1, wherein the plurality of light circuits each include at least one light emitting diode when electricity is supplied thereto. 10. The light strip of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of LED circuits identical to said first LED circuit each formed in a repeating pattern. 11. The light strip of claim 1, further comprising a first electrical connector electrically connected to a first bus element, and a second electrical connector electrically connected to a second bus element, said first and second electrical connectors being encapsulated within said extruded plastic material to enable electrical connection of said first LED circuit to another electrical source; and a plurality of electrical connector sets corresponding to said first and second electrical connectors, each of said plurality of electrical connector sets being integrally formed with one of said plurality of LED circuits in a manner identical to said first and second electrical connectors. 12. The light strip of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of connector plugs each corresponding to one of said first and second electrical connectors and said plurality of electrical connector sets, each of said plurality of connector plugs being removable when said strip is cut into discrete strip segments to define a plurality of electrical sockets within said strip segments. 13. The light strip of claim 12, further comprising a plurality of connectors each associated with one of said plurality of sockets that electrically connect each of said discrete strip segments to another strip segment or to a power source. 14. The light strip of claim 13, wherein each of said connectors comprises one of said plurality of connector plugs. 