An apparatus and method for sealing an underground junction between a lateral service line and a main pipeline from the inside-out. One embodiment provides a substantially rigid patching apparatus which may be positioned and installed with a robotic device within a main pipeline. The patching apparatus has a flange shaped to fit the internal diameter of the main pipeline and a tubular stem or sleeve which penetrates into the lateral service line. The patching apparatus contains an interconnection substrate such as felt, sponge or other similar material. The interconnection substrate may be impregnated with a bonding agent which sealingly interconnects the patching apparatus to the main pipeline and lateral service line. The seal provided by the inverted-tee patch effectively eliminates most water intrusion or the influx of plant roots and other matter which can seriously damage or obstruct the main pipeline. A remote control robotic arm is used in conjunction with a support cage to apply the patch to the underground junction between the main pipeline and lateral service line from within the main pipeline.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A patch adapted for removable interconnection to a remotely controlled robot for insertion into a main pipeline to sealingly repair a junction between a main pipeline and a lateral service line, comprising: a substantially rigid tubular stem having a first end and a second end, the second end having a substantially open aperture for communication with the lateral service line; a convex flange having an exterior surface, an interior surface and a cutout portion operatively sized and interconnected to the first end of said tubular stem, wherein said tubular stem extends away from the exterior surface of said convex flange; and sealing means interconnected to the exterior surface of said convex flange having resilient deformation properties adapted to provide sealing engagement between said convex flange and an interior surface of the main pipeline. 2. The patch of claim 1, wherein said convex flange is substantially rigid. 3. The patch of claim 1, wherein the exterior surface of said convex flange is contoured to have a shape substantially coextensive with the interior surface of the main pipeline. 4. The patch of claim 1, wherein said convex flange covers a portion of a circumference of the main pipeline at least 1.5 times a diameter of the lateral service line. 5. The patch of claim 1, wherein said tubular stem has a first length less than a second length of the lateral service line. 6. The patch of claim 1, wherein said tubular stem has a first length less than half a second length of the lateral service line. 7. The patch of claim 1, wherein said tubular stem has a first length less than a diameter of the main pipeline. 8. The patch of claim 1, wherein substantially an entire length of said tubular stem is comprised of a rigid material both before and after insertion of said tubular stem into the lateral service line. 9. The patch of claim 1, wherein said sealing means substantially surrounds the cutout portion of said convex flange. 10. The patch of claim 1, wherein said sealing means is comprised of foam rubber, felt, rubber, synthetic polymer, sponge, or cloth. 11. The patch of claim 1, wherein said sealing means has an uncompressed thickness of at least about 5 mm. 12. The patch of claim 1, wherein said sealing means has a compressed thickness of less than about one-third of an uncompressed thickness. 13. The patch of claim 1, wherein said sealing means further comprises an annular gasket positioned on an exterior surface of said tubular stem wherein a seal is provided between said tubular stem and an interior surface of the lateral service line. 14. The patch of claim 1, wherein said patch further comprises an adhesive means interconnected to or impregnated within said sealing means. 15. The patch of claim 1, wherein said sealing means comprises a permeable substrate material impregnated with an adhesive material. 16. The patch of claim 1, further comprising a sleeve having an internal diameter greater than an external diameter of said rigid tubular stem, wherein said sleeve may be slidingly positioned over said rigid tubular stem to increase the external diameter of said rigid tubular stem. 17. A method for remotely installing a patch to an underground junction between a main pipeline and a lateral service line, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a patch comprising: a tubular stem having a first end, a second end and a first length, wherein the second end has a substantially open aperture for communication with the lateral service line: a convex flange having an exterior surface, an interior surface and a cutout portion operatively sized and interconnected to the first end of said tubular stem wherein the second end of said tubular stem extends away from the exterior surface of said convex flange; and a sealing substrate interconnected to the exterior surface of said convex flange having resilient deformation properties adapted to provide sealing engagement between said convex flange and an interior surface of the main pipeline; (b) determining a location of the junction between the main pipeline and the lateral service line; (c) removably attaching said patch to a support cage; (d) positioning said support cage adjacent the location of the underground junction; (e) activating a lateral extender to move said support cage from a first traveling position to a second engagement position so that said patch is positioned with said tubular stem within the lateral service line and said sealing substrate is positioned against an internal surface of the main pipeline proximate to said lateral service line; (f) curing said patch so that said patch becomes fixedly connected to the internal surface of the main pipeline wherein said patch substantially prevents infiltration of foreign matter into the main pipeline at the underground junction; (g) deactivating the lateral extender to move said support cage from the second engagement position to the first traveling position; and (h) removing said lateral extender and said support cage from the main pipeline. 18. The method for installing a patch of claim 17, wherein said tubular stem has a first length less than half a second length of the lateral service line. 19. The method for installing a patch of claim 17, wherein substantially an entire length of said tubular stem is substantially rigid both before and after insertion into the lateral service line. 20. The method for installing a patch of claim 17, wherein said patch further comprises an adhesive means interconnected to or impregnated within said sealing substrate for interconnecting said substrate to the interior surface of the main pipeline. 