The pass thru mechanism serves to interconnect two juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems and provides an apparatus to obviate the need for complex alignment compensation mechanisms or precise alignment between the juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems. An alignment platform is located at each end of the pass thru mechanism and a repositioning assembly is located midway between the two ends of the pass thru mechanism. The alignment platforms are typically located entirely within the confines of the housing of the automated cartridge library systems and the repositioning assembly is either completely external to the housing of the automated cartridge library systems or only partially included therein. The operation of the alignment platforms and the repositioning assembly are decoupled in that there is no physical connection among these elements or interaction among these elements. A transport belt is provided to be the unifying element in that it picks a magnetic tape cartridge from a first alignment platform, then delivers the magnetic tape cartridge to the repositioning assembly which performs the cartridge rotation function, then places the rotated cartridge on the second alignment platform for access by the second robot mechanism.
Claims What is claimed: 1. In two juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems for robotically storing and retrieving a plurality of magnetic tape cartridges stored therein, a pass thru apparatus connected to a first and a second of said two juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems, for automatically transporting magnetic tape cartridges between said first and said second of said two juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems, comprising: first and second cartridge receiving means, fixedly located within said first and said second of said two juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems, respectively, for receiving a selected magnetic tape cartridge deposited therein by a robot mechanism operational in a corresponding one of said first and said second of said two juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems; means fixably mounted to said pass through apparatus for rotating said selected magnetic tape cartridge; a transport belt means for transporting said selected magnetic tape cartridge from said first cartridge receiving means to said means for rotating and thence to said second cartridge receiving means; and means for coordinating operation of said means for rotating and said transport belt means for transporting to automatically transport said selected magnetic tape cartridge between said first and said second of said two juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems. 2. The pass thru apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first and second cartridge receiving means comprises: platform means for providing a magnetic tape cartridge receiving aperture bounded on only two opposing sides by magnetic tape cartridge guides, and oriented to enable a magnetic tape cartridge placed in said platform means to be relocated to said means for transporting. 3. The pass thru apparatus of claim 2 wherein said transport belt means is located immediately below said first and second cartridge receiving means and forms a closed loop from said first cartridge receiving means to said second cartridge receiving means, for transporting said selected magnetic tape cartridge from said first cartridge receiving means to said second cartridge receiving means; and said transport belt means further comprises: cartridge drive means, affixed to said transport belt means, for engaging said selected magnetic tape cartridge when placed in said first cartridge receiving means to transport said selected magnetic tape cartridge from said first cartridge receiving means into said second cartridge receiving means as said transport belt means moves horizontally. 4. The pass thru apparatus of claim 3 wherein said means for transporting further comprises: drive means for causing linear movement of said transport belt means from said first cartridge receiving means to said second cartridge receiving means. 5. The pass thru apparatus of claim 4 wherein said means for transporting further comprises: means for activating said drive means to move said transport means in either of two directions: from said first cartridge receiving means into said second cartridge receiving means, and from said second cartridge receiving means into said first cartridge receiving means. 6. The pass thru apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for rotating comprises: cartridge cradle means for receiving a magnetic tape cartridge from said means for transporting; cam and roller means for lifting said cartridge cradle means and an included magnetic tape cartridge from said means for transporting; and means for rotating said cartridge cradle means 180.degree.. 7. The pass thru apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for rotating comprises: means, located substantially midway between said first and second cartridge receiving means, for receiving a magnetic tape cartridge from said means for transporting. 8. The pass thru apparatus of claim 7 wherein said means for rotating further comprises: cam and roller means for lifting said means for receiving a magnetic tape cartridge from said means for transporting and an included magnetic tape cartridge from said means for transporting; and means for rotating said cartridge cradle means 180.degree.. 9. The pass thru apparatus of claim 7 wherein said means for coordinating comprises: means for activating said means for rotating only when said means for transporting is not operating. 10. The pass thru apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for rotating comprises: means, located substantially external to said two juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems, for receiving a magnetic tape cartridge from said means for transporting. 11. A method of automatically transporting magnetic tape cartridges between a first and a second one of two juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems that robotically store and retrieve said magnetic tape cartridges stored therein, the method comprising: receiving a selected magnetic tape cartridge from said first one of said two juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems; transporting said selected magnetic tape cartridge to a cartridge cradle; rotating said selected magnetic tape cartridge in said cartridge cradle; and transporting said selected magnetic tape cartridge from said cartridge cradle to a second one of said two juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems, wherein the step of transporting said selected magnetic tape cartridge to said cartridge cradle and the step of transporting said selected magnetic tape cartridge from said cartridge cradle to said second one of said two juxtaposed automated cartridge library systems further comprisrs transporting said selected magnetic tape cartridge on a conveyor belt. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said rotating step further comprises the steps of: receiving said selected magnetic tape cartridge in said cartridge cradle; lifting said cartridge cradle and said selected magnetic tape cartridge from said conveyor belt; rotating said selected magnetic tape cartridge 180 degrees; and lowering said cartridge cradle and said selected magnetic tape cartridge back down onto said conveyor belt. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said rotating step further comprises: stopping said conveyor belt before lifting said cradle and said selected magnetic tape cartridge; and starting said conveyor belt after lowering said cartridge cradle and said selected magnetic tape cartridge back down onto said conveyor belt. 