A substrate processing system that includes a deposition chamber having a reaction zone, first and second electrodes, a mixed frequency RF power supply including a low frequency RF power source and a high frequency RF power source. The high frequency RF power supply provides enough power to form a plasma from a process gas introduced into the reaction zone and the low frequency RF power supply is configured to supply an asymmetrical waveform to either said first or second electrodes to bias the plasma toward the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing system comprising: a deposition chamber having a reaction zone; first and second electrodes; a mixed frequency RF power supply comprising a low frequency RF power source and a high frequency RF power source for forming a plasma in the reaction zone from one or more process gases; wherein said low frequency RF power source is configured to provide an asymmetrical waveform to either said first or second electrodes to bias said plasma toward the substrate. 2. The substrate processing system of claim 1 further comprising a filter and matching network that decouples waveforms generated by said high frequency RF power source from waveforms generated by said low frequency RF power source. 3. The substrate processing system of claim 2 wherein said asymmetric waveform is a sawtooth waveform. 4. A substrate processing system comprising: a deposition chamber comprising a reaction zone; a substrate holder that positions a substrate in the reaction zone, said substrate holder comprising a first RF electrode; a gas distribution system that includes a gas inlet manifold for supplying one or more process gases to said reaction zone, said gas inlet manifold comprising a second RF electrode; a mixed frequency RF power supply comprising a low frequency RF power source and a high frequency RF power source for forming a plasma in the reaction zone from said one or more process gases; wherein said low frequency RF power source is configured to provide an asymmetrical waveform to either said first or second electrodes to bias said plasma toward the substrate. 5. The substrate processing system of claim 4 further comprising a filter and matching network that decouples waveforms generated by said high frequency RF power source from waveforms generated by said low frequency RF power source. 6. The substrate processing system of claim 5 wherein said asymmetric waveform is a sawtooth waveform. 