The invention provides a process for evaluating a substrate, such as a wafer of semiconductive material having a semiconductor die at least partially formed thereon, as to the condition of an overlying film, such as an overlying film of photoresist that is applied to the semiconductor die prior to metal etching and ion implantation. The condition of the film is evaluated by exposing at least a portion of the substrate to electromagnetic radiation and evaluating the wave profile of the reflected beam. In instances where it is desirable to evaluate the substrate for the presence or absence or photoresist, ultraviolet, or near ultraviolet light having a wavelength of about 240-650 nm can be used, as such wavelengths are strongly absorbed by photoresist. In contrast, areas of the substrate that are not covered by photoresist will not significantly absorb ultraviolet or near ultraviolet radiation. The presence or absence of the film under study can be evaluated by detecting reflected light from the substrate and comparing the detected light to a known profile. When photoresist films are under evaluation, the profile will feature portions of relatively low amplitude, which correspond to absorption of uv due to the presence of photoresist, and portions of relatively high amplitude, which correspond to non-absorption (reflectance) of uv. While the principles of the invention are applicable to single-point testing of a substrate, it is preferable to undertake a multi-point, and more preferably a continuous scan, of at least a portion of the substrate to minimize the occurrence of possibly erroneous results, as could occur from sampling a portion of the substrate that was deliberately not patterned with the film under study.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for evaluating the condition of a film on a substrate, comprising the steps of: exposing a substrate surface to an incident electromagnetic radiation beam along at least one surface point; generating a reflected beam from said at least one of said surface point, said reflected beam having a characteristic profile; detecting at least one of said reflected beams; comparing the profile for each of said detected beams with a reference profile; imparting relative motion between said substrate and said incident radiation beam and detecting said reflected beam during at least a portion of said relative motion; and wherein said reflected beam profiles is an amplitude profile and the reference profile is an amplitude profile having a profile section of relatively diminished amplitude. 2. The process according to claim 1, wherein electromagnetic radiation having a wavelength of about 240-650 nm is exposed to said surface. 3. The process according to claim 1, wherein said profile is an amplitude profile. 4. The process according to claim 1, further comprising the step of placing said substrate on a movable stage and displacing said stage along at least one horizontal axis to expose said at least one of said surface point too said electromagnetic radiation. 5. The process according to claim 1, wherein said substrate is a wafer of semiconductive material. 6. The process according to claim 1, further comprising the step of directing said substrate to one of a plurality of available stations in accordance with said profile comparison. 7. The process according to claim 1, wherein at least two surface points are exposed to said incident electromagnetic radiation and a reflected beam is generated from at least two of said surface points, and wherein each of said reflected beams has a characteristic profile that is compared with said reference profile. 8. The process according to claim 1, wherein said incident radiation beam is displaced along at least one horizontal axis. 9. The process according to claim 1, further comprising the step of generated an alarm signal if the reflected beam profile differs from said reference profile by an amount in excess of a predetermined threshold value. 10. A process for evaluating the condition of a film layer with respect to an underlying substrate, comprising the steps of: positioning a substrate having an upper surface onto a stage; exposing at least a portion of said substrate upper surface to an incident electromagnetic radiation beam while imparting relative motion between said substrate and a source of said electromagnetic radiation; generating a reflected beam from at least a portion of the substrate surface that is exposed to said incident radiation beam; detecting at least a portion of said reflected beam; comparing the profile of the detected beam with a reference profile; and applying incident radiation having a wavelength that is substantially absorbed by said film and substantially reflected by regions of said substrate where said film is not present. 11. The process according to claim 10, wherein said substrate is advanced along at least one horizontal axis while being exposed to said incident beam. 12. The process according to claim 10, wherein electromagnetic radiation having a wavelength of about 240-650 nm is exposed to said substrate surface. 13. The process according to claim 10, further comprising the step of directing said substrate to one of a plurality of available stations in accordance with said profile comparison. 14. The process according to claim 10, wherein said profile is an amplitude profile. 15. The process according to claim 10, further comprising the step of generating an alarm signal if the reflected beam profile differs from said reference profile by an amount in excess of a predetermined threshold value. 16. The process according to claim 10, wherein said substrate is a wafer of semiconductive material. 17. The process according to claim 10, wherein said reflected beam is evaluated for the presence of a recurring pattern that corresponds to reflectance from one of a high reflectivity or low reflectivity region of the substrate surface. 