A crane arranged through its reeving system to manoeuver a load. The crane includes an upper support structure, a lower support structure arranged to carry a load and six reeving cables suspending the lower support structure from the upper support structure. Means are provided for changing the effective length between the upper and lower support structure of selective ones of the reeving cables. The reeving cables are arranged such that they are connected geometrically to the upper and lower support structures at apexes of an upper and a lower quadrilateral plane figure, respectively. The reeving cables are arranged such that the cables of a first pair of the reeving cables converge in a downward direction, the cables of a second pair of the reeving cables converge in an upward direction, and the cables of the third pair of reeving cables extend between opposite ends of the first and second pair reeving cables at the upper and lower support structures. A crane with such reeving arrangement enables adjustment of the position and altitude of the lower support structure with respect to the upper support structure by manipulating the length in individual reeving cables. The reeving cable arrangement results in "stiffness" between the upper and lower support structures when all cables are in tension.
Claims We claim: 1. A crane comprising: an upper support structure; a lower support structure arranged to carry a load; six reeving cables extending between said upper and lower support structures, said cables suspending said lower support structure from said upper support structure; and means for changing an effective length between said upper and lower support structures of selected ones of said reeving cables, said reeving cables being connected geometrically to said upper and lower support structures at apexes of respective quadrilateral plane figures, and said reeving cables being arranged so that the cables of a first pair of said reeving cables converge toward one another in a downward direction from said upper support structure to said lower support structure, the cables of a second pair of said reeving cables converge toward one another in an upward direction from said lower support structure to said upper support structure, and the cables of a third pair of said reeving cables extending from one end of said first pair of reeving cables to one end of said second pair of reeving cables. 2. A crane in accordance with claim 1, wherein said reeving cables are connected to said upper support structure by connections located to conincide geometrically with the apexes of trapezoids. 3. A crane in accordance with claim 2, wherein said reeving cables are connected to said upper and lower support structures by connections located to coincide geometrically with the apexes of regular trapezoids having parallel sides of unequal length and non-parallel sides of equal length. 4. A crane in accordance with claim 3, wherein a distance along a shorter parallel side of said regular trapezoid that is associated with said upper support structure is equal to a distance along the shorter parallel side of said trapezoid that is associated with said lower support structure, wherein a distance along a longer parallel side of said trapezoid associated with said lower support structure being equal to a distance along the shorter parallel side plus a distance equal to .sqroot.3a, where a is a radius of a circle circumscribing an equilateral triangle with a side length equal to a length of the non-parallel sides of said trapezoid associated with said lower support structure, and a distance along the longer parallel side of said trapezoid associated with said upper support structure is equal to the distance along the shorter parallel side plus a distance equal to 2.sqroot.3b, where b is a radius of a circle circumscribing an equilateral triangle with a side length equal to the length of the non-parallel sides of the trapezoid associated with said upper support structure. 5. A crane in accordance with claim 3, further comprising an electronic controller arranged to provide control commands that are operative on said means for changing the effective length of said reeving cables in accordance with geometric equations linking the three-dimensional spatial attitude of said lower support structure to effective distances between the apexes of the trapezoids at said lower and upper support structures so as to adjust and maintain a predetermined length and tension in each of said reeving cables required by the spatial attitude. 6. A crane in accordance with claim 5, further comprising sensor means for determining the spatial attitude of said lower support structure with respect to said upper support structure. 7. A crane in accordance with claim 6, further comprising feedback means arranged to transmit to said electronic controller a position and orientation in space of said lower support structure with respect to said upper support structure as determined by said sensor means, said electronic controller being arranged to generate command signals to effect fine adjustment of the position and orientation of said lower support structure in response to feedback data provided by said feedback means. 8. A crane in accordance with claim 7, wherein said means for changing the effective length of said reeving cables are operated to automatically counter externally applied forces to the load carried by said lower support structure. 9. A crane in accordance with claim 6, wherein said sensor means comprises an inertial platform of gyroscopes and accelerometers disposed on said lower support structure. 10. A crane in accordance with claim 1, wherein an area of the quadrilateral plane figure defined geometrically by connections between said reeving cables and said upper support structure is larger than an area of the quadrilateral plane figure defined geometrically by the connections between said reeving cables and said lower support structure. 11. A crane in accordance with claim 1 constructed as a gantry type crane for hoisting containers, wherein said upper support structure comprises a trolley arranged for reciprocating linear movement along a gantry or boom structure of said crane, and said lower support structure comprises a head block to which said container is in use coupled by a spreader. 12. A crane in accordance with claim 1, wherein said means for changing the effective length of said reeving cables between said upper and lower support structures comprise a plurality of hoist drums, one hoist drum being provided for each of said reeving cables. 13. A crane in accordance with claim 12, wherein said hoist drums are driven by individual motors to effect fine attitudinal control of said lower support structure with respect to said upper support structure. 14. A crane in accordance with claim 13, wherein said hoist drums are driven by a common motor. 15. A crane in accordance with claim 14, further comprising a transmission system interposed between said motor and said plural hoist drums, said transmission system being arranged to effect differential movement of individual hoist drums. 16. A crane in accordance with claim 1, wherein said means for changing the effective length of each of said reeving cables between said upper and lower support structures comprises a single motor driven hoist drum for all of said reeving cables. 17. A crane in accordance with claim 16, wherein said adjusting means comprises one of electric, hydraulic and pneumatically activated rams which incorporate cable guiding elements. 18. A crane in accordance with claim 16, further comprising adjusting means located in a path of each reeving cable to provide for additional individual adjustment of the lengths of each of said reeving cables. 19. A crane in accordance with claim 1, wherein said reeving cables are connected to said lower support structure by connections located to coincide geometrically with the apexes of trapezoids. 