A computerizable robotic automated bogie is provided including a drive motor and a main drive shaft extending downwardly from the drive motor. A rotatable plate is rotatably coupled to a bottom of a platform and further rotatable with respect to the main drive shaft. A gear mechanism is operatively coupled to the drive shaft. At least one wheel has an axis coupled with the gear mechanism thereby effecting rotation of the at least one wheel about a horizontal axis upon the actuation of the drive motor. The axis about which the at least one wheel rotates is fixed with respect to the rotatable plate. Further included is a rotating mechanism operatively engaged with the rotatable plate for selectively rotating the horizontal axis about which the at least one wheel resides.
Claims I claim: 1. A computerizable robotic automated bogie for mounting to a platform comprising: a drive motor mounted to a top of the platform; a base plate mounted to a bottom of the platform below the motor; a main drive shaft extending downwardly from the drive motor through the platform and base plate; a rotatable gear plate rotatably coupled to a bottom of the base plate with a bearing assembly situated therebetween, the rotatable gear plate having a plurality of gear teeth formed in a periphery thereof; a pair of oil pan halves fixed to the base plate to encompass the rotatable gear plate and drive shaft and further define a closed upper oil pan; a pair of weight-bearing yoke halves fixed to a central extent of a bottom of the rotatable gear plate and further rotatable with respect to the pair of oil pan halves, the yoke halves encompassing the drive shaft and further defining a lower oil pan; a differential assembly operatively coupled to the drive shaft within the lower oil pan; a pair of wheels each having axles extending through a lower portion of the weight-bearing yoke halves for coupling with the differential assembly thereby effecting rotation of the wheels about a horizontal axis upon the actuation of the drive motor; and an azimuth motor mounted within the upper oil pan and operatively coupled to the angled teeth of the rotatable gear plate for selectively rotating the horizontal axis about which the wheels reside. 2. A computerizable robotic automated bogie comprising: support means; a drive motor mounted on the support means; a main drive shaft extending downwardly from the drive motor; a rotatable plate rotatably coupled to a bottom of the support means and further rotatable with respect to the main drive shaft; a gear means operatively coupled to the drive shaft; at least one wheel having an axis coupled with the gear means thereby effecting rotation of the at least one wheel about a horizontal axis upon the actuation of the drive motor, wherein the axis about which the at least one wheel rotates is fixed with respect to the rotatable plate; and rotating means operatively engaged with the rotatable plate for selectively rotating the horizontal axis about which the at least one wheel resides; wherein the rotating means includes a pair of gears; wherein a pan encompasses the rotatable plate and rotating means; and wherein the rotating means includes an azimuth motor fixed with respect to the pan. 3. A computerizable robotic automated bogie as set forth in claim 2 wherein a pan encompasses the gear means. 4. A computerizable robotic automated bogie as set forth in claim 2 wherein the support means includes a base plate for mounting to a platform of an object to transported by the bogie. 5. A computerizable robotic automated bogie as set forth in claim 4 wherein the support means includes a pan fixed with respect to the base plate and encompassing a rotatable gear plate and drive shaft. 6. A computerizable robotic automated bogie as set forth in claim 5 wherein the support means includes an anchor plate for mounting between the base plate and the platform. 7. A computerizable robotic automated bogie as set forth in claim 2 additionally comprising an azimuth motor for selectively rotating the horizontal directional axis about which the wheels rotate. 8. A computerizable robotic automated bogie as set forth in claim 2 additionally comprising a rotatable gear plate with a bottom surface, and a yoke fixed to a central extent of the bottom of the rotatable gear plate, the yoke being rotatable with respect to an upper pan. 9. A computerizable robotic automated bogie as set forth in claim 8 wherein the yoke encompasses the drive shaft and defines a lower pan. 10. A computerizable robotic automated bogie as set forth in claim 2 additionally comprising a differential assembly operatively coupled to the drive shaft and the at least one wheel. 11. A computerizable robotic automated bogie comprising: support means; a drive motor mounted on the support means; a main drive shaft extending downwardly from the drive motor; a rotatable plate rotatably coupled to a bottom of support means and further rotatable with respect to the main drive shaft; a gear means operatively coupled to the drive shaft; at least one wheel having an axis coupled with the gear means thereby effecting rotation of the at least one wheel about a horizontal axis upon the actuation of the drive motor, wherein the axis about which the at least one wheel rotates is fixed with respect to the rotatable plate; and rotating means operatively engaged with the rotatable plate for selectively rotating the horizontal axis about which the at least one wheel resides; wherein an oil pan encompasses the rotatable plate and rotating means; and wherein the rotating means includes an azimuth motor fixed with respect to the oil pan. 12. A computerizable robotic automated bogie as set forth in claim 11 wherein an oil pan encompasses the gear means. 13. A computerizable robotic automated bogie as set forth in claim 11 wherein the rotating means includes a pair of gears. 14. A computerizable robotic automated bogie as set forth in claim 2 comprising a pair of wheels rotatable about a common axis. 15. A computerizable robotic automated bogie as set forth in claim 14 wherein the wheels are operatively coupled together by a differential assembly. 