A modular vehicle window assembly is provided which has attached thereto interior vehicle accessories. In a preferred embodiment, the window panel assembly includes a window panel disposed within or covering a window opening formed in the vehicle. The window panel may optionally contain a conventional gasket or sealing structure to provide a weather-tight seal in the window opening. Supported on and interconnecting to the interior surface of the window panel are any one of a number of different accessory configurations, including centerline, island, and peninsular overhead consoles providing storage space, overhead lighting, and air conditioning vents for use by the occupants. Other accessories which may be used include an instrument display assembly, a control assembly, a window shade assembly, and a hand-hold assembly. The interior accessories may be interconnected to the window panel by a variety of fasteners which provide the ability to quickly interchange an interior component and/or provide sufficient tensional strength characteristics to suspend the interior accessory from the interior surface of the window panel. Also provided are a perimeter storage and concealment system for providing a finished interior and storage capability about the interior of the window opening. Preferably, the assembly is used in the roof area of the vehicle such that the accessories are supported overhead of the passenger compartment.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An overhead window panel assembly for mounting in the roof area of a vehicle comprising: an overhead window panel having an inner surface, an outer surface, and a shape configured to close an overhead window opening in the roof area of a vehicle; an overhead vehicle interior accessory member in the form of at least one of an overhead island accessory, peninsula accessory, centerline accessory and peripheral accessory on said overhead window panel, said accessory member having an attaching surface, said attaching surface secured to said inner surface of said overhead window panel; said attaching surface of said overhead vehicle interior accessory member being bonded to said inner surface of said overhead window panel by an adhesive, said adhesive providing a sufficiently strong bond to withstand localized static and dynamic loads acting on said accessory member without failing and being selected from the group consisting of single-component adhesives, multi-component adhesives, chemically activated adhesives, thermally activated adhesives, moisture-curable adhesives, thermoplastic adhesives, and thermoset adhesives; said overhead vehicle interior accessory member comprising a console and being pre-attached to said inner surface of said overhead window panel prior to installation in the roof area of the vehicle. 2. An overhead window panel assembly for mounting in the roof area of a vehicle comprising: an overhead window panel having an inner surface, an outer surface, and a shape configured to close an overhead window opening in the roof area of a vehicle; an overhead vehicle interior accessory member in the form of at least one of an overhead island accessory, peninsula accessory, centerline accessory and peripheral accessory on said overhead window panel, said accessory member having an attaching surface, said attaching surface secured to said inner surface of said overhead window panel; said attaching surface of said overhead vehicle interior accessory member being bonded to said inner surface of said overhead window panel by an adhesive, said adhesive providing a sufficiently strong bond to withstand localized static and dynamic loads acting on said accessory member without failing and being selected from the group consisting of single-component adhesives, multi-component adhesives, chemically activated adhesives, thermally activated adhesives, moisture-curable adhesives, thermoplastic adhesives, and thermoset adhesives; said overhead vehicle interior accessory member comprising a console and being pre-attached to said inner surface of said overhead window panel prior to installation in the roof area of the vehicle; said overhead window panel having a centerline; said console being located along said centerline of said overhead window panel and being suspended therefrom. 3. The overhead window panel assembly of claim 1 wherein said overhead vehicle interior accessory member comprises a compartment suspended from said overhead window panel. 4. The overhead window panel assembly of claim 1 wherein said overhead window panel comprises a glass substrate. 5. The overhead window panel assembly of claim 1 including an opaque layer covering a first area of said inner surface of said overhead window panel. 6. The overhead window panel assembly of claim 5 wherein said opaque layer has a dimension sufficient to conceal said attaching surface of said overhead vehicle interior accessory when said overhead window panel assembly is viewed from the direction of said outer surface of said overhead window panel. 7. The overhead window panel assembly of claim 5 wherein said first area of said inner surface having said opaque layer corresponds to at least a footprint of said overhead vehicle interior accessory member secured to said inner surface of said overhead window panel. 8. The overhead window panel assembly of claim 5 wherein said opaque layer comprises ceramic frit. 9. The overhead window panel assembly of claim 5 wherein said opaque area is a pattern defining at least one of an island, a peninsula, a perimeter margin, and a centerline strip traversing said inner surface of said window panel. 10. The overhead window panel assembly of claim 5 further including an adhesion-promoting compound between said opaque layer and said adhesive. 11. The overhead window panel assembly of claim 10 wherein said adhesive comprises a layer of rapid set, rapid cure, two-component urethane, said layer being cured to form a joint suitable for use on a vehicle. 12. The overhead window panel assembly of claim 11 wherein said rapid set characteristic is such that said adhesive achieves a set within a time period of about 3 minutes or less from the time of initial disposition of said adhesive between said opaque layer on said overhead window panel inner surface and said attaching surface, and wherein said rapid cure characteristic is such that said adhesive cures in a time period of less than about 60 minutes from the time of adhesive set. 