Rapid prototyping methods and apparatuses that produce structures made of continuous-fiber polymer-matrix composites without the use of molds. Instead of using molds, the composite structure is fabricated patch by patch in layers or wraps, using a two- or three-axis stage connected to a rapidly-reconfigurable forming surface, and a robot arm to position the evolving composite structure, which are both programmable devices. Because programmable devices are included, i.e., a robot and a two- or three-axis stage connected to the reconfigurable forming surface, the control program needed to produce a desired shape can be easily modified to automatically generate the desired shape from an electronic model (e.g., using a CAD/CAM system) of the desired (predetermined) shape.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for freeform fabrication of a structure, the structure having a shape, the structure being formed by a plurality of patches, comprising, in the order presented, the steps of: a) configuring a reconfigurable forming apparatus to a configuration for forming one patch of the plurality of patches forming a portion of said shape and moving said forming apparatus to a proper spatial position with manipulating means, i) wherein said reconfigurable forming apparatus comprises a reconfigurable forming surface having a first adjustable surface contour, and an opposing flexible mold assembly, and ii) wherein said configuring step comprises the steps of adjusting said first adjustable surface contour to match said portion of said shape; b) providing material to said forming apparatus at said position, wherein said providing step comprises placing said material between said reconfigurable forming surface and said opposing flexible mold assembly; c) shaping said material between said reconfigurable forming surface and said opposing flexible mold assembly to form said patch; d) curing said patch; and e) sequentially advancing said reconfigurable forming apparatus to a plurality of other spatial positions each corresponding to a portion of said shape and there repeating steps a), b), c) and d) until said structure is formed. 2. A method for freeform fabrication of a structure having a shape comprising, in the order presented, the steps of: a) configuring a reconfigurable forming apparatus at a first location to correspond to a first portion of said shape, i) wherein said reconfigurable forming apparatus comprises a reconfigurable forming surface having a first adjustable surface contour, and an opposing flexible mold assembly, and ii) wherein said configuring step comprises the steps of adjusting said first adjustable surface contour to match said portion of said shape; b) providing material to said forming apparatus, wherein said providing step comprises placing said material between said reconfigurable forming surface and said opposing flexible mold assembly; c) shaping said material between said reconfigurable forming surface and said opposing flexible mold assembly to form a patch forming said first portion of said shape d) curing said patch; e) moving said forming apparatus to a different location corresponding to another portion of said shape; and f) repeating steps a) through e) until said structure is formed. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of maintaining the reconfigurable forming apparatus in a stationary position during said curing step. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein said step of curing further comprises a step of applying heat to the patch using heating means and a step of applying pressure to the patch using pressure means. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said step of applying pressure and said step of applying heat comprise the steps of: changing said applied temperature; and changing said applied pressure. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said manipulating means comprises a robot having at least one degree of freedom. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of determining a correct position of said robot for each of said steps. 8. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of returning said robot to an initial starting position before said step of sequentially advancing said reconfigurable forming apparatus to a plurality of other spatial positions. 9. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of determining said shape of said structure based on an electronic model. 10. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of automatically programming said robot. 11. The method of claim 2, further comprising said step of cooling said forming apparatus before said step of moving said forming apparatus to a different location corresponding to another portion of said shape. 12. The method of claim 2, wherein said forming apparatus is adapted to fabricate a variety of different shapes. 13. The method of claim 2, wherein said material is a composite material. 14. A method for freeform fabrication of a structure having a shape comprising, in the order presented, the steps of: a) configuring a reconfigurable forming apparatus to correspond to a portion of said shape, i) wherein said reconfigurable forming apparatus comprises a reconfigurable forming surface having a first adjustable surface contour, and an opposing flexible mold assembly, and ii) wherein said configuring step comprises the steps of adjusting said first adjustable surface contour to match said portion of said shape; b) providing a portion of material to said forming apparatus and molding and curing said portion of material to form a patch, wherein said providing step comprises placing said portion of material between said reconfigurable forming surface and said opposing flexible mold assembly; c) reconfiguring said reconfigurable forming apparatus to correspond to a subsequent portion of said shape adjacent to said portion of said shape and moving said forming apparatus to a position corresponding to said subsequent portion of said shape; d) providing another portion of said material to said reconfigurable forming apparatus and molding and curing said another portion of said material to form a subsequent patch adjacent said patch, wherein said curing step comprises fusing said subsequent patch to said patch previously formed; and e) repeating steps c) and d) until said structure is formed. 