A web printer for printing digital information on print media the web printer comprising a cabinet a plurality of ink reservoirs mounted in a releasable manner within the cabinet and storing respective types of ink to be printed a print media cartridge mounted in a releasable manner within the cabinet and carrying a wound length of print media a platen extending away from the print media cartridge to support print media provided from the print media cartridge a stationary printhead mounted within the cabinet to extend transverse to the print media and configured to print digital information with the ink and upon print media provided from the platen and a dryer module configured to blow air toward the printed print media and dry the printed ink.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A web printer for printing digital information on print media, the web printer comprising: a cabinet; a plurality of ink reservoirs mounted, in a releasable manner, within the cabinet and storing respective types of ink to be printed; a print media cartridge mounted, in a releasable manner, within the cabinet and carrying a wound length of print media; a platen extending away from the print media cartridge to support print media provided from the print media cartridge; a stationary printhead mounted within the cabinet to extend transverse to the print media, and configured to print digital information with the ink and upon print media provided from the platen; and a dryer module configured to blow air toward the printed print media and dry the printed ink; and a data capture device configured to capture the identity of an identifier carried by a print sample and wherein, subsequent to the capture of the identity of the print sample, the printhead can print the pattern which corresponds to the print sample. 2. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the dryer module comprises a fan configured to blow the air and a heater configured to heat the blown air. 3. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet defines a winding well and the web printer further comprises a pair of opposed spindles located in the well to operatively engage with a former upon which the dried print media can be wound, the web printer further comprising a motor for driving at least one of the spindles. 4. A web printer as claimed in claim 3, further comprising a tape dispenser configured to dispense a portion of adhesive tape so that the dried print media can be affixed to the former. 5. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the print media travel path from the print media cartridge to the printhead forms a substantially straight line. 6. A web printer as claimed in claim 5, further comprising a cuffing module mounted to the cabinet which can be used to separate the dried print media from the remaining wound length of print media, the print media travel path from the print media cartridge to the cuffing module forming a substantially straight line. 7. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet defines an upper vent area to facilitate discharge of moist or heated air from within the cabinet. 8. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data capture device comprises a barcode scanner which is tethered to the cabinet and the identifier comprises a barcode which can be read by the barcode scanner. 9. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data capture device comprises a touch screen display so that a user can enter the identity in the form of a visible alphanumeric code borne by the identifier. 10. A web printer as claimed in claim 9, wherein the touch screen display is pivotally mounted relative to the cabinet so that the touch screen can be tilted by the user. 