A web printer is provided for printing web patterns on print media. The web printer includes a cabinet. A plurality of ink reservoirs is mounted, in a releasable manner, within the cabinet and store respective types of ink to be printed. A print media cartridge is mounted, in a releasable manner, within the cabinet and carries a wound length of print media. A platen extends away from the print media cartridge to support print media provided from the print media cartridge along a print media travel path. A stationary printhead is mounted within the cabinet to extend transverse to the print media. The printhead is configured to print a web pattern with the ink and upon print media provided from the platen. In use, the print media travel path from the print media cartridge to the printhead forms a substantially straight line.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A web printer for printing patterns on print media, the web printer comprising: a cabinet; a plurality of ink reservoirs mounted, in a releasable manner, within the cabinet and storing respective types of ink to be printed; a print media cartridge mounted, in a releasable manner, within the cabinet and carrying a wound length of print media; a platen extending away from the print media cartridge to support print media provided from the print media cartridge along a print media travel path; a stationary printhead mounted within the cabinet to extend transverse to the print media, and configured to print a web pattern with the ink and upon print media provided from the platen, the print media travel path from the print media cartridge to the printhead forming a substantially straight line; and a data capture device configured to capture the identity of an identifier carried by a web sample and wherein, subsequent to the capture of the identity of the web sample, the printhead can print the web pattern which corresponds to the web sample. 2. A web printer as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a cutting module mounted to the cabinet which can be used to separate the printed print media from the remaining wound length of print media, the print media travel path from the print media cartridge to the cutting module forming a substantially straight line. 3. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet defines an upper vent area to facilitate discharge of moist or heated air from within the cabinet. 4. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet defines a winding well and the web printer further comprises a pair of opposed spindles located in the well to operatively engage with a former upon which the printed print media can be wound, the web printer further comprising a motor for driving at least one of the spindles. 5. A web printer as claimed in claim 4, further comprising a tape dispenser configured to dispense a portion of adhesive tape so that the printed print media can be affixed to the former. 6. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data capture device comprises a barcode scanner which is tethered to the cabinet and the identifier comprises a barcode which can be read by the barcode scanner. 7. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data capture device comprises a touch screen display so that a user can enter the identity in the form of a visible alphanumeric code borne by the identifier. 8. A web printer as claimed in claim 7, wherein the touch screen display is pivotally mounted relative to the cabinet so that the touch screen can be tilted by the user. 