A piezoelectric debris sensor and associated signal processor responsive to debris strikes enable an autonomous or non-autonomous cleaning device to detect the presence of debris and in response, to select a behavioral mode, operational condition or pattern of movement, such as spot coverage or the like. Multiple sensor channels (e.g., left and right) can be used to enable the detection or generation of differential left/right debris signals and thereby enable an autonomous device to steer in the direction of debris.
Claims We claim: 1. An autonomous cleaning apparatus, comprising: a drive system operable to enable movement of the cleaning apparatus; a controller in communication with the drive system, the controller including a processor operable to control the drive system to steer movement of the cleaning apparatus and provide at least one pattern of movement of the cleaning apparatus; and a debris sensor for generating a debris signal; wherein the processor causes the cleaning apparatus to enter into a spot cleaning mode in an area in which the cleaning apparatus was operating when a debris signal was generated, steering the cleaning apparatus to the debris-containing area substantially immediately in response to the debris signal generated by the debris sensor. 2. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 1, wherein the spot cleaning mode comprises maneuvering the autonomous cleaning apparatus according to a self-bounded area algorithm. 3. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 2, wherein the self-bounded area algorithm comprises a spiraling algorithm. 4. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 1, wherein the debris sensor comprises a piezoelectric sensor located proximate to a cleaning pathway and responsive to a debris impact thereon to generate a debris signal indicative of such impact. 5. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 1, wherein the debris sensor comprises: a plate; an elastomer pad supporting the plate; and a piezoelectric material and an electrode both secured to the plate, the electrode in communication with the controller. 6. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 1, wherein the debris sensor comprises a piezoelectric film. 7. An autonomous cleaning apparatus, comprising: a drive system operable to enable movement of the cleaning apparatus; a controller in communication with the drive system, the controller including a processor operable to control the drive system to steer movement of the cleaning apparatus and provide at least one pattern of movement of the cleaning apparatus; a cleaning head system; and right and left debris sensors in communication with the controller and disposed proximate a cleaning pathway of the cleaning head system for generating respective debris signals; wherein the processor directs the drive system to turn right in response to the debris signal generated by the right debris sensor and to turn left in response to the debris signal generated by the left debris sensor. 8. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 7, wherein the right and left debris sensors are disposed opposite each other and equidistantly from a center axis defined by the cleaning pathway. 9. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 7, wherein each debris sensor generates the debris signals in response to debris impacts thereon. 10. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 7, wherein each debris sensor comprises a piezoelectric sensor. 11. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 7, wherein the debris sensor comprises: a plate; an elastomer pad supporting the plate; and a piezoelectric material and an electrode both secured to the plate, the electrode in communication with the controller. 12. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 7, wherein the debris sensor comprises a piezoelectric film. 13. An autonomous cleaning apparatus, comprising: a drive system operable to enable movement of the cleaning apparatus; a controller in communication with the drive system, the controller including a processor operable to control the drive system to steer movement of the cleaning apparatus and select a cleaning mode; a cleaning head system; and at least one debris sensor in communication with the controller for generating debris signals; wherein the processor changes the cleaning mode in response to the debris signal. 14. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 13, wherein the processor changes the cleaning mode to a high power cleaning mode in response to the debris signal, the high power mode comprising elevating power delivery to the cleaning head system. 15. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 13, wherein the processor changes the cleaning mode to a spot cleaning mode in response to the debris signal. 16. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 15, wherein the spot cleaning mode comprises directing the drive system to drive in a substantially spiral direction at a reduced drive speed. 17. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 13, wherein the processor changes the cleaning mode in response to transition condition. 18. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 17, wherein the transition condition comprises an event from an obstacle detection system in communication with the controller. 19. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 13, wherein the debris sensor comprises: a plate; an elastomer pad supporting the plate; and a piezoelectric material and an electrode both secured to the plate, the electrode in communication with the controller. 20. The autonomous cleaning apparatus of claim 13, wherein the debris sensor comprises a piezoelectric film. 