Provided is a support assembly for a pagewidth printhead module having modular printhead integrated circuits. The assembly includes a support frame and a plurality of PCB supports operatively supported by said frame, with each support defining busbar channels for locating busbars to supply the integrated circuits with power, and each PCB support operatively supporting a PCB with a print engine controller for controlling respective integrated circuits. The assembly also includes a cover portion configured to engage said frame to enclose the PCB supports. The cover portion has heat coupling material for thermally coupling with the respective print engine controllers when engaging the frame to facilitate heat dissipation from the controllers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A support assembly for a pagewidth printhead module having modular printhead integrated circuits, said assembly comprising: a support frame; a plurality of printed circuit board (PCB) supports operatively supported by said frame, each support defining busbar channels for locating busbars to supply the integrated circuits with power, and each PCB support configured to support a PCB with a print engine controller for controlling respective integrated circuits; and a cover portion configured to engage said frame to enclose the PCB supports, said cover portion having heat coupling material for thermally coupling with the respective print engine controllers when engaging the frame to facilitate heat dissipation from the controllers. 2. The support assembly of claim 1, wherein the support frame defines a reservoir for printing fluids. 3. The support assembly of claim 1, wherein the PCB supports are aligned end-to-end on the frame, so that the respective busbar channels align to form contiguous busbar channels. 4. The support assembly of claim 3, wherein the PCB supports include recessed and raised portions on abutting ends thereof, to allow electrical connecting members to connect the respective PCBs. 5. The support assembly of claim 3, wherein the contiguous busbar channel is sealed by a pressure plate clipped to the support frame. 6. The support assembly of claim 1, wherein each PCB support includes retaining clips for securely mounting said PCB support to the support frame. 7. The support assembly as claimed in claim 1, in which the PCB supports are configured to accommodate relative expansion and contraction of the PCB supports relative to the frame. 