A method of establishing liquid classes of complex mixtures for liquid handling equipment. The mixtures are composed of components and the equipment has equipment parameters. The first step comprises preparing a response curve for the components. The next step comprises using the response curve to prepare a response indicator for the mixtures. The next step comprises deriving a model that relates the components and the mixtures to establish the liquid classes.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for providing liquid mixtures for crystallization screening, comprising: a recipe mixer, a stock reagent rack, a bioblock, a sample container, a crystallization plate, a late sealer robot, an incubator unit, a liquid handling robot connected to said stock reagent rack, said bioblock, said sample container, and said crystallization plate, a liquid class predictor connected to said recipe mixer, and a machine control system connected to said liquid handling robot, said plate sealer robot, said recipe mixer, and said liquid class predictor. 2. The apparatus for providing liquid mixtures for crystallization screening of claim 1 wherein said recipe mixer is a recipe mixer that produces specific recipes from said stock reagent rack that will be used by said liquid handling robot. 3. The apparatus for providing liquid mixtures for crystallization screening of claim 2 wherein said liquid class predictor is a liquid class predictor that determines the liquid classes of said specific recipes produced by said recipe mixer and produces liquid class information. 4. The apparatus for providing liquid mixtures for crystallization screening of claim 3 wherein said liquid class predictor is a liquid class predictor that provides said liquid class information to said machine control system. 5. The apparatus for providing liquid mixtures for crystallization screening of claim 1 including a camera operably connected to said crystallization plate. 6. An apparatus for growing crystals and sustainable high-throughput crystallization screening of the crystals, comprising: a recipe mixing system for mixing individual recipes of complex liquid mixtures for the crystals, a reagent design unit connected to said recipe mixing system for creating a set of robot files for said individual recipes of said complex liquid mixtures, stock reagents, a bio block, a crystallization plate, a plate sealer, an incubator, a robot handling machine connected to said stock reagents, said bio block, said crystallization plate, said plate sealer, and said incubator, a machine control system connected to said recipe mixing system, said reagent design unit, and said robot handling machine to instruct the robot handling machine for growing the crystals and screening of the crystals, and a liquid class predictor connected to said machine control system for adjusting said individual recipes. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said liquid class predictor for adjusting said individual recipes is a liquid class predictor for adjusting said individual recipes from reagents with known response curves. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said step of predicting liquid classes produces liquid class information and said liquid class information is used to instruct the liquid handling equipment including a camera operably connected to said incubator for creating images of the crystals. 9. A method of growing crystals and screening the crystals by establishing liquid classes of mixtures for a robot handling machine, said mixtures composed of components, comprising the steps of: preparing a response curve for said components, using said response curve to prepare a response indicator for said mixtures, and deriving a model that relates said components and said mixtures to establish said liquid classes, using said robot handling machine and said liquid classes for mixing individual recipes of the mixtures for the crystals, using said robot handling machine and an incubator for incubating said individual recipes of the mixtures for the crystals, and screening the crystals. 10. The method of growing crystals and screening the crystals of claim 9 wherein said step of deriving a model comprises empirically deriving a model by linear regression. 11. The method of growing crystals and screening the crystals of claim 9 including the steps of preparing a working set of mixed cocktails from said components with known response curves and measuring the volume dispensed vs. expected volume of water dispensed with said equipment parameters. 