A method of and apparatus for recording selected AV (Audio/Video) data from a first data store (106) to an AVDDM (Audio/Video Distributable Data Medium) (102) is described. The method comprises reading a portion (104, 112, 122) of the selected AV data from the first store (106); and transferring (108, 120) the read portion (104, 112, 122) to an AVDDM recorder (70) via a second store (114) in which the read portion (104, 112, 122) has been temporarily stored. The read portion (104, 112, 122) is then recorded (110) onto the AVDDM (e.g. a CD) (102). These processing steps are repeated until all the portions of the selected AV data have been recorded onto the AVDDM (70) and at least the reading, and recording steps are carried out simultaneously for different portions of the selected AV data. The apparatus can also be used as part of a compiling apparatus which is linked to a remote database preferably via a satellite link (28) and comprises a user-friendly simple GUI (Graphical User Interface).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of quickly and securely recording a selected digitally encoded AV (Audio/Video) data record from a first digital data store to an AVDDM (Audio/Video Distributable Data Medium) which enables the AV data record to be read on more than one device, the method comprising the steps of: (a) reading a discrete portion of the selected AV data record from the first digital data store; (b) digitally decoding the read discrete portion of the selected AV data record subsequent to the reading step; (c) storing temporarily the decoded discrete portion of the selected AV data record that has been read from the first digital data store, into a second digital data store; (d) transferring the read decoded discrete portion from the second store to an AVDDM recorder; (e) recording the read decoded discrete portion onto the AVDDM; and (f) sequentially repeating the steps (a) to (e) for each discrete portion of the selected AV data record until all the portions of the selected AV data record have been recorded onto the AVDDM, wherein at least the storing and recording are carried out simultaneously for different discrete portions of the selected AV data record. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the processing step of: generating a feedback signal when the AVDDM recorder has finished recording the read decoded discrete portion and wherein, for each portion of the selected AV data record, the processing steps are carried out asynchronously on the basis of the feedback signal. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the transferring step is also carried out simultaneously with the storing and recording steps for a discrete portions of the selected AV data record different to those being handled by the storing and recording steps. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the storing step is carried out sequentially with the recording step and within the time taken to complete the recording step. 5. A method according to claim 1, further comprising selecting an AV data record to be recorded from the first digital data store prior to commencing the reading step. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the first digital data store comprises a database of AV data records, and the method further comprises selecting a plurality of AV data records from the database prior to commencing the reading step, each of the plurality of AV data records being read and recorded individually by the method. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein the AV data record is in a format unsuitable for recording onto the AVDDM and the method further comprises converting the read discrete portion of the selected AV data record into an AVDDM format prior to the recording step. 8. A method according to claim 1, further comprising processing the discrete read portion of the AV data record prior to the temporarily storing step. 9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the processing step comprises applying a digital copyright notice to the AV data record to be recorded. 10. A method according to claim 8, wherein the processing step comprises adding a digital data watermark to the AV data record to indicate the authenticity of the recorded copy. 11. A method according to claim 1, further comprising checking the format of the AVDDM once it has been recorded with the selected AV data record. 12. A method according to claim 1, further comprising recording a table of contents onto the AVDDM once it has been recorded with the selected AV data record. 13. A method according to claim 1, wherein the method is operable under the control of a host operating system. 14. An apparatus for quickly and securely transferring an AV (Audio/Video) data record selected from a first digital data store to an AVDDM (Audio/Video Distributable Data Medium) which enables the AV data record to be read on more than one device, the apparatus comprising: first transfer means for reading a discrete portion of the selected AV data record from the first digital data store and temporarily storing the same in a second digital data store; a decoder for decoding the read discrete portion of the selected AV data record; second transfer means for transferring the read discrete decoded portion from the second digital data store to the AVDDM recorder; and an AVDDM recorder for recording the read discrete portion onto the AVDDM, wherein the apparatus is arranged to repeatedly operate the first transfer means, the decoder, the second transfer means and the AVDDM recorder to transfer each discrete portions of the selected AV data record a portion at a time from the first digital data store to the AVDDM until all of the portions of the selected AV data record have been recorded onto the AVDDM and to operate the first transfer means and the AVDDM recorder simultaneously on different discrete portions of the selected AV data record. 15. An apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the AVDDM recorder is arranged to generate a feedback signal when it has finished recording the read decoded portion; and the apparatus is arranged to effect each part of the transfer asynchronously on the basis of the feedback signal for each portion of the selected AV data record. 16. An apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the apparatus is arranged to operate the second transfer means simultaneously with the first transfer means and the AVDDM recorder for a discrete portions of the selected AV data record different to those being handled by the first transfer means and the AVDDM recorder. 17. A method of quickly and securely recording a selected encoded AV (Audio/Video) data record from a first digital data store to an AVDDM (Audio/Video Distributable Data Medium) which enables the AV data record to be read on more than one device, the method comprising the steps of: (a) reading a discrete portion of the selected AV data record from the first digital data store; (b) decoding the read discrete portion of the selected AV data record subsequent to the reading step; (c) storing temporarily the decoded discrete portion of the selected AV data record that has been read from the first digital data store, into a second digital data store; (d) transferring the read decoded discrete portion from the second digital data store to an AVDDM recorder; (e) recording the read decoded discrete portion onto the AVDDM; (f) generating a feedback signal when the AVDDM recorder has finished recording the read discrete portion; and (g) sequentially repeating the steps (a) to (f) for each discrete portion of the selected AV data record until all the portions of the selected AV data record have been recorded onto the AVDDM; wherein the storing, transferring and recording steps are carried out simultaneously for different discrete portions of the selected AV data record; and for each discrete portion of the selected AV data record, the steps (a) to (e) are carried out asynchronously on the basis of the feedback signal. 18. A method according to claim 17, wherein the storing step is carried out sequentially with the recording step and within the time taken to complete the recording step. 19. A method of quickly and securely recording a selected encoded AV (Audio/Video) data record from a first digital data store to an AVDDM (Audio/Video Distributable Data Medium) which enables the AV data record to be read on more than one device, the method comprising the steps of: (a) reading a discrete portion of the selected AV data record from the first digital data store; (b) decoding the read discrete portion of the selected AV data record subsequent to the reading step; (c) storing temporarily the decoded discrete portion of the selected AV data record that has been read from the first digital data store, into a second digital data store; (d) transferring the read decoded discrete portion from the second digital data store to an AVDDM recorder; (e) recording the read decoded discrete portion onto the AVDDM; (f) generating a feedback signal when the AVDDM recorder has finished recording the read discrete portion; and (g) sequentially repeating the steps (a) to (f) for each discrete portion of the selected AV data record until all the portions of the selected AV data record have been recorded onto the AVDDM; wherein at least the storing and recording steps are carried out simultaneously for different discrete portions of the selected AV data record; the storing step is carried out sequentially with the recording step and within the time taken to complete the recording step; and for each discrete portion of the selected AV data record, the steps (a) to (e) are carried out asynchronously on the basis of the feedback signal. 20. A method of quickly and securely recording a selected encoded AV (Audio/Video) data record from a first digital data store to an AVDDM (Audio/Video Distributable Data Medium) which enables the AV data record to be read on more than one device, the method comprising the steps of: (a) reading a discrete portion of the selected AV data record from the first digital data store; (b) decoding the read discrete portion of the selected AV data record subsequent to the reading step; (c) storing temporarily the decoded discrete portion of the selected AV data record that has been read from the first digital data store, into a second digital data store; (d) transferring the read decoded discrete portion from the second digital data store to an AVDDM recorder; (e) recording the read decoded discrete portion onto the AVDDM; and (f) sequentially repeating the steps (a) to (e) for each discrete portion of the selected AV data record until all the portions of the selected AV data record have been recorded onto the AVDDM; wherein the storing, transferring and recording steps are carried out simultaneously for different discrete portions of the selected AV data record, and the storing step is carried out sequentially with the recording step and within the time taken to complete the recording step. 21. An apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the apparatus is arranged to operate the second transfer means simultaneously with the first transfer means and the AVDDM recorder for different discrete portions of the selected AV data record. 