Footwear comprises a sole and a plurality of sealed cavities contained within the sole. The sealed cavities can be incorporated as deformable containers within an elastic medium, comprising the sole. A plurality of micro electro-mechanical system (MEMS) pressure sensors are respectively contained within the sealed cavity plurality, and can be adapted to measure static and dynamic pressure within each of the sealed cavities. The pressure measurements can provide information relating to the contact pressure distribution between the sole of the footwear and the wearer's environment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Footwear comprising: a sole; and a plurality of sealed cavities contained within the sole; and, a plurality of micro electro-mechanical system (MEMS) pressure sensors respectively contained within the sealed cavity plurality. 2. The footwear according to claim 1 further comprising: a lower sole and an upper sole, at least one of the lower sole and the upper sole comprising an elastic media, the sealed cavity plurality disposed within the elastic media; a flexible printed wiring board coupled between the lower sole and the upper sole; and, the plurality of micro electro-mechanical system (MEMS) pressure sensors coupled to the flexible printed wiring board and encapsulated within the cavities in the elastic media, the array of MEMS pressure sensors adapted to measure pressures within the plurality of cavities. 3. The footwear according to claim 2 further comprising: a plurality of sensor elements, each sensor element comprising: a deformable container coupled to the flexible printed wiring board and configured to encapsulate a sealed cavity; and, a micro electro-mechanical system (MEMS) pressure sensor sealed into the cavity within the container and adapted to measure pressure within the cavity. 4. The footwear according to claim 1 further comprising: an electronics module communicatively coupled to the MEMS pressure sensor plurality and adapted to measure a load distribution profile between a surface and the footwear. 5. The footwear according to claim 1 further comprising: the MEMS pressure sensors in the pressure sensor plurality configured as unpackaged silicon micro-machined pressure sensor components integrated into the sealed cavity plurality and adapted to measure pressure within the plurality of cavities. 6. The footwear according to claim 1 further comprising: the MEMS pressure sensors in the pressure sensor plurality configured as silicon surface micro-machined pressure transducers comprising a deformable membrane and a plurality of integrated piezoresistive traces disposed on the deformable membrane. 7. The footwear according to claim 3 further comprising: a data acquisition and signal processing element coupled to each micro electro-mechanical system (MEMS) pressure sensor in combination, the combination sealed into the cavity. 8. The footwear according to claim 1 further comprising: power and signal conductors extending through the sole and configured to couple individual MEMS pressure sensors of the MEMS pressure sensor plurality, to an electronics module. 9. The footwear according to claim 1 further comprising: an exoskeletal boot including the sole, the MEMS pressure sensor plurality adapted to sense a pressure profile within the sole; and, a communication interface coupled to the MEMS pressure array adapted to supply ground contact pressure information to a robotic control system. 10. The footwear according to claim 9 further comprising: a data acquisition and control electronics coupled to the communication interface. 11. A method for operating micro electro-mechanical system (MEMS) pressure sensor-enabled footwear comprising: sensing pressures from an array of micro electro-mechanical system (MEMS) pressure sensors encapsulated and sealed in cavities distributed in a footwear sole; interpreting the pressures provided as signals from the array of MEMS pressure sensors; communicating the pressure signal interpretations to a supervisory system; and, generating a dynamic pressure profile and a static pressure profile from the communicated pressure signal interpretations. 12. The method according to claim 11 further comprising: monitoring balance from the dynamic pressure profile and the static pressure profile. 13. The method according to claim 11 further comprising: sensing pressures from an array of micro electro-mechanical system (MEMS) pressure sensors encapsulated in sealed cavities distributed in an exoskeletal boot sole; determining ground contact pressure information from the sensed pressures; and, supplying the ground contact pressure information to a robotic control system. 