A vehicle including a body and three legs. Each leg includes a proximal end coupled to the body, a distal end opposite the proximal end, and an actuator. Each actuator imparts enough acceleration to the vehicle along an axis of the leg to cause the distal end of the leg to leave a surface upon which it rests. Thus, the robot can pivot around one leg when the actuator of another leg imparts an acceleration. One actuator may also cause two legs to leave the surface. Moreover, the actuators may be spring biased into a retracted position. Further, the body may be a Platonic solid and the axes of the lags may pass through the vehicle's center of gravity. Of course, the body could be a sphere while the vehicle could be a planetary robot or a toy. Methods of traversing a surface are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of traversing a surface, the method comprising: determining which legs a vehicle is resting on, the vehicle having at least three legs, each of the legs being configured and adapted to impart an acceleration to the vehicle in a direction along a longitudinal axis of the leg; determining in which direction to traverse the surface; imparting an acceleration to the vehicle generally in the direction in which to traverse the surface using at least one of the legs and in a manner so that the distal end of the at least one leg leaves the surface. 2. The method according to claim 1, the imparting acceleration further comprising causing the vehicle to hop over an obstacle. 3. The method according to claim 1, the imparting acceleration further comprising causing the vehicle to pivot around the distal end of at least one of the other legs. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising decomposing a monopropellant to power an actuator, the actuator being used to control motion of said at least one leg. 5. A method of traversing a surface, the method comprising: using a plurality of at least three legs to support a vehicle body, each of said legs being operable to impart acceleration to said vehicle body; determining a subset of said legs that are presently supporting said vehicle body above said surface; determining in which direction to move the vehicle body; determining which one or more legs of said subset of said legs are required for use to impart movement of said vehicle body in said direction; selectively controlling said subset of said legs to cause a thrusting action for each said leg of said subset of legs, that causes each said leg of said subset of legs to leave said surface, to thus collectively impart accelerations that propel said vehicle body in said direction. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising using a monopropellant to power one or more legs of said subset of legs. 7. The method of claim 5, further comprising imparting a linear acceleration to at least one of said legs to cause said vehicle body to pivot about a different one of said legs in contact with said surface. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein using a plurality of three legs to support said vehicle body comprises using a plurality of at least three linear actuators. 9. The method of claim 5, further comprising using an inclinometer to determine which of said legs are resting on said surface, and therefore available to assist in propelling said vehicle body. 10. The method of claim 5, further comprising using a controller to calculate a series of accelerations required from each said leg in order to propel said vehicle body in said direction. 11. The method of claim 5, wherein said accelerations that propel said vehicle body in said direction comprises at least one hopping action. 12. The method of claim 5, wherein said propelling of said vehicle body in said direction comprises at least one stepping action. 13. The method of claim 5, wherein said accelerations that propel said vehicle body in said direction comprises at least one pivoting action wherein said vehicle body is pivoted about one of said legs that is in contact with said surface. 14. A method of traversing a surface, the method comprising: using a plurality of at least three controllably, linearly extendable legs to support a vehicle body, a distal end of each said leg being adapted to engage said surface to support said vehicle body above said surface, with a proximal end of each said leg being adapted to engage said vehicle body; determining a subset of said legs that are presently supporting said vehicle body above said surface; determining in which direction said vehicle body needs to be moved; determining which ones of said subset of said legs are required for use to impart movement of said vehicle body in said direction; selectively controlling said subset of said legs to cause a thrusting action for at least one of said legs, that causes said one leg to leave said surface, to thus collectively impart an acceleration that propels said vehicle body in said direction. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising using a monopropellant to power each of said legs. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising using decomposing of said monopropellant to power each of said legs. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein using a plurality of at least three controllably, linearly extendable legs comprises using a plurality of at least three actuators. 18. The method of claim 14, further comprising using a controller to calculate a series of accelerations required from specific ones of said legs to propel said vehicle body in said direction. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein collectively imparting accelerations that propel said vehicle body in said desired direction comprises at least one of: propelling said vehicle body in a series of hopping motions; propelling said vehicle body in a series of pivoting motions; and propelling said vehicle body in a series of stepping motions. 