An exemplary ion source for creating a stream of ions has an aluminum alloy arc chamber body that at least partially bounds an ionization region of the arc chamber. The arc chamber body is used with a hot filament arc chamber housing that either directly or indirectly heats a cathode to sufficient temperature to cause electrons to stream through the ionization region of the arc chamber. A temperature sensor monitors temperatures within the arc chamber and provides a signal related to sensed temperature. A controller monitors sensed temperature as measured by the sensor and adjusts the temperature to maintain the sensed temperature within a range.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A hot filament-type ion source for use in creating a stream of ions comprising: an arc chamber housing defining an ionization region, said arc chamber being comprised of an aluminum-alloy material; a hot filament electron emitting cathode coupled to said arc chamber for emitting electrons into the ionization region thereof; a gas delivery system for injecting gas molecules into the ionization region of said arc chamber; and a control circuit for maintaining an operating temperature of the arc chamber housing to a temperature range within a range of 400 C.-550 C.; wherein, high energy electrons of sufficient energy to ionize the gas molecules injected into said arc chamber are emitted from the cathode into the housing interior to ionize gas molecules injected into the housing interior. 2. The ion source of claim 1 wherein the control circuit comprises a temperature sensor for monitoring temperature of the arc chamber housing. 3. The ion source of claim 1 additionally comprising: a) a temperature sensor for monitoring temperatures of the arc chamber housing and providing a signal related to sensed temperature; and b) wherein the control circuit monitors sensed temperature as measured by the sensor and adjusting the temperature to maintain the sensed temperature within a desired temperature range. 4. The ion source of claim 3 wherein the arc chamber housing includes passageways that support resistive heating elements coupled to the control circuit for raising and lowering the temperature of the arc chamber housing. 5. The ion source of claim 4 wherein the resistive heating elements include outer flexible jackets that expand and contract with temperature changes to maintain good heat transfer between the housing and the resistive heating elements. 6. The ion source of claim 1 further comprising a source block supporting the arc chamber body that includes an oven for injecting gaseous ionization material into the arc chamber housing interior and wherein the arc chamber housing is spaced from the source block by a temperature insulating heat shield interposed between the arc chamber housing and the source block. 7. The ion source of claim 1 additionally comprising an oven supported in an aluminum alloy source block for injecting gaseous ionization material into the arc chamber. 8. The ion source of claim 7 wherein the oven includes cavities for receipt of cooling gas for cooling the oven. 9. The ion source of claim 7 wherein the source block has locating pins which engage corresponding holes in the arc chamber housing at spaced positions along a centerline while allowing expansion and contraction of the arc chamber body on either side of the centerline. 10. The ion source of claim 9 further comprising an exit aperture plate having an arc slit aligned generally of the center line about which expansion and contraction of the arc chamber body occurs. 11. The ion source of claim 1 further comprising an exit aperture plate which is mounted to mounting posts and comprising springs for biasing the aperture plate against the arc chamber housing. 12. A method for generating an ion beam comprising: a) positioning an aluminum alloy arc chamber housing that at least partially bounds an ionization region to emit a stream of ions by mounting the arc chamber housing to a source block for positioning the arc chamber housing with respect to an ion path of travel; b) directing electrons through the ionization region by emitting said electrons from a hot filament electron emitting cathode; c) accelerating electrons emitted from said cathode through the ionization region to form ions; d) controlling power applied to the arc chamber to maintain the sensed temperature within a temperature range of 400 C-550 C; and e) emitting ions from the arc chamber housing to form the beam. 13. The method of claim 12 additionally comprising monitoring temperatures at a region of the arc chamber housing and providing a signal related to sensed temperature for use in determining how much power to apply to the arc chamber. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the positioning comprises fixing a source block with respect to an ion beam travel path and connecting the arc chamber body to the source body along a center line to allow for expansion and contraction of the arc chamber body with temperature changes. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the source block is spaced from the arc chamber body by a thermally conductive gasket which inhibits temperature variations at a high end of the desired temperature range. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein a temperature of the arc chamber housing is controlled by placing a resistive heater in contact with an arc chamber body and adjusting current through the resistive heater. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein thermal conduction between the resistive heater and housing body is maintained by a flexible jacket that surrounds the resistive heater. 