Methods are provided for low temperature, rapid baking to remove impurities from a semiconductor surface prior to in-situ deposition. Advantageously, a short, low temperature process consumes very little of the thermal budget, such that the process is suitable for advanced, high density circuits with shallow junctions. Furthermore, throughput is greatly improved by the low temperature bake, particularly in combination with low temperature plasma cleaning and low temperature wafer loading prior to the bake, and deposition after the bake at temperatures lower than conventional epitaxial deposition. The process enables epitaxial deposition of silicon-containing layers over semiconductor surfaces, particularly enabling epitaxial deposition over a silicon germanium base layer. By use of a low-temperature bake, the silicon germanium base layer can be cleaned to facilitate further epitaxial deposition without relaxing the strained crystal structure of the silicon germanium.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of treating a semiconductor substrate having an exposed semiconductor region subject to oxidation, comprising: loading the substrate onto a substrate support in a chemical vapor deposition reaction chamber; subjecting the substrate to a bake in a reducing environment for less than 45 seconds; stabilizing the substrate temperature after the bake; and depositing a layer by chemical vapor deposition directly over the semiconductor region after stabilizing the temperature; wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises delivering a greater ratio of power to an upper bank of lamps as compared to a neutral ratio of power between the upper bank and a lower bank of lamps, where the neutral ratio of power is optimized to maintain the substrate temperature the same as the substrate support temperature. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein loading the substrate comprises maintaining the substrate support at less than about 500.degree. C. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein loading the substrate comprises maintaining the substrate support at less than about 450.degree. C. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein subjecting the substrate to the bake comprises exposing the substrate to hydrogen in the absence of halide species. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises raising the substrate temperature for less than about 30 seconds. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein stabilizing the substrate temperature comprises lowering the substrate temperature immediately after raising the substrate temperature. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein stabilizing the substrate temperature comprises lowering the substrate temperature to between about 550.degree. C. and 800.degree. C. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein stabilizing the substrate temperature comprises lowering the substrate temperature to between about 600.degree. C. and 700.degree. C. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein depositing the layer comprises a selective epitaxial process. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein depositing the layer comprises forming an epitaxial emitter for an integrated device. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein depositing a layer comprises depositing an epitaxial emitter over a silicon germanium alloy. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein depositing a layer comprises depositing silicon. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein depositing a layer comprises depositing silicon carbide. 14. The method of claim 6, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises raising the substrate temperature for less than about 20 seconds. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises raising the substrate temperature to greater than 700.degree. C. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises raising the substrate temperature to between about 700.degree. C. and 900.degree. C. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises increasing the substrate temperature at a rate greater than the rate of temperature increase of the substrate support. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises raising the substrate temperature to greater than about 750.degree. C. and raising the substrate support to less than 750.degree. C. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein loading the substrate comprises maintaining the substrate support at less than 550.degree.0 C. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the greater ratio of power is greater than 25% higher than the neutral ratio. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the reducing environment comprises hydrogen. 22. The method of claim 1, further comprising cleaning the reaction chamber at less than 550.degree. C. prior to loading the substrate onto the substrate support. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein cleaning comprises subjecting the reaction chamber to a plasma. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein cleaning comprises subjecting the reaction chamber to a halide-containing plasma. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein cleaning comprises subjecting the reaction chamber to a fluorine-containing plasma. 26. The method of claim 22, wherein cleaning comprises maintaining the substrate support to no greater than 500.degree. C. 27. A method for growing an epitaxial silicon-containing layer on a silicon-germanium layer, the method comprising: inserting the silicon substrate with a strained silicon-germanium layer into a first reaction chamber and onto a susceptor housed within the chamber, the strained silicon-germanium layer comprising a contaminated surface; subjecting the substrate to a bake under conditions selected to remove nearly all oxygen and carbon contamination from the contaminated surface without relaxing the strained silicon-germanium layer, thereby forming a strained silicon-germanium layer comprising a cleaned surface; and epitaxially forming a silicon-containing layer on the cleaned surface of the strained silicon-germanium layer. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein inserting comprises maintaining the susceptor at a temperature below that at which hydrogen desorption occurs. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein inserting comprises maintaining the susceptor at less than about 500.degree. C. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein inserting comprises maintaining the susceptor at less than about 450.degree. C. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein subjecting the substrate to the bake comprises exposing the substrate to hydrogen in the absence of halide species. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein a duration of the bake comprises less than about 30 seconds. 33. The method of claim 32, further comprising, immediately after subjecting the substrate to the bake, lowering the substrate temperature to an acceptable temperature for epitaxy. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the substrate temperature is lowered to between about 550.degree. C. and 800.degree. C. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the substrate temperature is lowered to between about 600.degree. C. and 700.degree. C. 36. The method of claim 27, wherein forming the silicon-containing layer comprises a selective epitaxial process. 37. The method of claim 27, wherein epitaxially forming the silicon-containing layer comprises forming an elevated emitter for an integrated device. 38. The method of claim 27, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises raising the substrate temperature for less than about 20 seconds. 39. The method of claim 38, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises raising the substrate temperature to greater than 700.degree. C. 40. The method of claim 38, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises raising the substrate temperature to between about 700.degree. C. and 900.degree. C. 41. The method of claim 28, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises increasing the substrate temperature at a rate greater than increasing the susceptor temperature. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises raising the substrate temperature to greater than about 750.degree. C. and raising the susceptor to less than about 750.degree. C. 43. The method of claim 27, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises delivering a greater ratio of power to an upper bank of lamps as compared to a neutral ratio of power between the upper bank and a lower bank of lamps, where the neutral ratio of power is optimized to maintain the substrate temperature the same as the susceptor temperature. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein the greater ratio of power is greater than 25% higher than the neutral ratio. 45. The method of claim 27, further comprising cleaning the reaction chamber at less than 550.degree. C. prior to loading the substrate onto the susceptor. 46. The method of claim 45, wherein cleaning comprises subjecting the reaction chamber to a halide-containing plasma. 47. The method of claim 45, wherein cleaning comprises subjecting the reaction chamber to a fluorine-containing plasma. 48. The method of claim 45, wherein cleaning comprises maintaining the susceptor at less than about 500.degree. C. 49. A method of semiconductor processing, comprising: loading a substrate with an exposed oxide-contaminated silicon germanium semiconductor surface into a reaction chamber; conducting a bake step for less than 45 seconds to remove oxide from the oxide-contaminated silicon germanium semiconductor surface, under conditions selected to avoid relaxing a strain in the silicon-germanium underlying the semiconductor surface; and depositing an epitaxial semiconductor layer over the silicon germanium semiconductor surface. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein inserting the substrate comprises loading the substrate onto a substrate holder at less than about 550.degree. C. 51. The method of claim 49, wherein inserting the substrate comprises loading the substrate onto a substrate holder at less than about 500.degree. C. 52. The method of claim 51, wherein the exposed semiconductor surface comprises a single-crystal silicon germanium layer. 53. The method of claim 52, wherein growing the epitaxial layer comprises growing a silicon-containing emitter layer over the silicon germanium layer. 