A workpiece positioner assembly comprises a headstock apparatus that is configured to rotate a workpiece A headstock interface assembly is configured to secure the workpiece to the headstock apparatus and comprises a bearing configured to enable pitch, yaw and roll movement of the headstock interface assembly relative to the headstock apparatus. The workpiece positioner assembly further comprises a tailstock apparatus configured to support the workpiece in cooperation with the headstock apparatus. The tailstock apparatus comprises a tailstock interface assembly that is configured to secure the workpiece to the tailstock apparatus. The tailstock interface assembly further comprises a tailstock bearing configured to enable axial movement of the workpiece relative to the tailstock apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device comprising a workpiece positioner assembly, said workpiece positioner assembly comprising a headstock apparatus and a tailstock apparatus, wherein: said headstock apparatus is configured to rotate a workpiece and comprises a headstock interface assembly; said headstock interface assembly is configured to secure said workpiece to said headstock apparatus; said headstock interface assembly comprises a bearing configured to enable pitch, yaw and roll movement of said headstock interface assembly relative to said headstock apparatus; said tailstock apparatus is configured to support said workpiece in cooperation with said headstock apparatus and comprises a tailstock interface assembly; said tailstock interface assembly is configured to secure said workpiece to said tailstock apparatus; said tailstock interface assembly comprises a tailstock bearing configured to enable axial movement of said workpiece relative to said tailstock apparatus; said tailstock apparatus further comprises a tailstock pedestal; said tailstock interface assembly further comprises a shaft secured to said tailstock pedestal; said tailstock bearing defines a substantially spherical bearing; and said shaft is slideably engaged within said substantially spherical bearing to enable axial movement of said workpiece relative to said tailstock apparatus. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said workpiece positioner assembly defines a stance of alignment between said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus, when said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus are positioned within said stance of alignment a substantially direct centerline is defined between said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus, and said headstock interface assembly and said tailstock interface assembly are configured to secure said workpiece between said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus when said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus are out of said stance of alignment. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein said headstock interface assembly and said tailstock interface assembly are each configured to eliminate additional bearing loads induced by misaligning said headstock apparatus or said tailstock apparatus out of said stance of alignment. 4. The device of claim 2, wherein: said headstock apparatus defines a position that is horizontally displaced, vertically displaced, or horizontally and vertically displaced from said substantially direct centerline; said tailstock apparatus defines a position that is horizontally displaced, vertically displaced, or horizontally and vertically displaced from said substantially direct centerline; said headstock apparatus defines a position that is horizontally displaced, vertically displaced, or horizontally and vertically displaced from said substantially direct centerline, and said tailstock apparatus is positioned within said stance of alignment; said tailstock apparatus defines a position that is horizontally displaced, vertically displaced, or horizontally and vertically displaced from said substantially direct centerline, and said headstock apparatus is positioned within said stance of alignment; or said headstock apparatus defines a position that is horizontally displaced, vertically displaced, or horizontally and vertically displaced from said substantially direct centerline, and said tailstock apparatus defines a position that is horizontally displaced, vertically displaced, or horizontally and vertically displaced from said substantially direct centerline. 5. The device of claim 2, wherein said headstock apparatus is out of said stance of alignment by at least about .+-.2 degrees of said substantially direct centerline. 6. The device of claim 2, wherein said tailstock apparatus is out of said stance of alignment by at least about .+-.2 degrees of said substantially direct centerline. 7. The device of claim 2, wherein said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus are each out of said stance of alignment by at least about .+-.2 degrees of said substantially direct centerline. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein said headstock apparatus further comprises a headstock faceplate, and wherein said headstock interface assembly is secured to said headstock faceplate. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein said headstock interface assembly further comprises an interface mounting module, and wherein said interface mounting module is secured to said headstock faceplate. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein said headstock interface assembly further comprises a headstock workpiece mounting module, said headstock workpiece mounting module is secured to said interface mounting module, and said headstock workpiece mounting module is secured to a section of said workpiece. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein said bearing is positioned within said headstock workpiece mounting module, and wherein said headstock workpiece mounting module is secured to said interface mounting module through said bearing. 12. The device of claim 9, wherein said interface mounting module comprises a hub. 13. The device of claim 9, wherein said headstock interface assembly further comprises a guide module, and wherein said guide module is secured to said interface mounting module or said headstock faceplate. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein said guide module comprises a bushing block and a pin, and wherein said pin is in communication with a headstock workpiece mounting module. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein said bushing block is positioned between said guide module and said pin, and wherein said bushing block enables said pin to rotate and translate within said guide module providing pitch and yaw compliance. 16. The device of claim 14, wherein said bushing block and said pin are configured to restrict the roll movement of said headstock workpiece mounting module. 17. The device of claim 13, wherein said guide module comprises a cam follower bearing, and wherein said cam follower bearing is in communication with a headstock workpiece mounting module. 18. The device of claim 17, wherein said cam follower bearing is configured to rotate and translate within said headstock workpiece mounting module providing pitch and yaw compliance. 19. The device of claim 17, wherein said cam follower bearing is configured to restrict the roll movement of said headstock workpiece mounting module. 20. The device of claim 1, wherein said bearing defines a substantially spherical bearing. 21. The device of claim 1, wherein said device is configured to impart a rated repeatability of about .+-.0.125 mm at a turning radius of about 380 mm. 22. The device of claim 1, wherein said device is configured to rotate loads weighing between about 1 and about 6000 kg. 23. The device of claim 1, wherein said device further comprises one or more industrial robots. 24. The device of claim 1, wherein said workpiece positioner assembly further comprises at least one grounding cable. 25. The device of claim 1, wherein said tailstock bearing defines a substantially spherical pillow block bearing. 26. The device of claim 25, wherein said tailstock apparatus further comprises a tailstock pedestal, wherein said tailstock pedestal is mounted upon a frame or floor, and wherein said substantially spherical pillow block bearing is mounted to said tailstock pedestal. 27. The device of claim 26, wherein said tailstock interface assembly further comprises a shaft and a tailstock workpiece mounting module, said tailstock workpiece mounting module is secured to said shaft, said tailstock workpiece mounting module is secured to a section of said workpiece, and said shaft is positioned within said substantially spherical pillow block bearing. 28. The device of claim 27, wherein said shaft is slideably engaged within said substantially spherical pillow block bearing which said engagement enables said axial movement of said workpiece relative to said tailstock apparatus. 29. The device of claim 28, wherein said engagement of said shaft within said substantially spherical pillow block bearing imparts said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus to rotate said workpiece without imposing additional bearing loads on said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus, said additional bearing loads induced by misaligning said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus out of a stance of alignment. 30. A device comprising a workpiece positioner assembly, said workpiece positioner assembly comprising a headstock apparatus and a tailstock apparatus, wherein: said headstock apparatus is configured to rotate a workpiece and comprises a headstock interface assembly; said headstock interface assembly is configured to secure said workpiece to said headstock apparatus; said tailstock apparatus is configured to support said workpiece in cooperation with said headstock apparatus and comprises a tailstock interface assembly; said tailstock interface assembly is configured to secure said workpiece to said tailstock apparatus; said headstock interface assembly comprises a bearing configured to enable pitch, yaw and roll movement of said headstock interface assembly relative to said headstock apparatus; said tailstock interface assembly comprises a substantially spherical pillow block bearing; said tailstock interface assembly further comprises a shaft and a tailstock workpiece mounting module secured to said shaft; and said substantially spherical pillow block bearing is configured to enable pitch, yaw and roll movement of said shaft relative to said tailstock apparatus. 31. The device of claim 30, wherein said shaft defines a hollow interior for passage of electrical connections, pneumatic connections, and combinations thereof. 32. A device comprising a workpiece positioner assembly, said workpiece positioner assembly comprising a headstock apparatus and a tailstock apparatus, wherein: said headstock apparatus is configured to rotate a workpiece and comprises a headstock interface assembly; said headstock interface assembly is configured to secure said workpiece to said headstock apparatus; said tailstock apparatus is configured to support said workpiece in cooperation with said headstock apparatus and comprises a tailstock interface assembly; said tailstock interface assembly is configured to secure said workpiece to said tailstock apparatus; said tailstock interface assembly comprises a tailstock bearing; said headstock interface assembly comprises an interface mounting module, a headstock workpiece mounting module secured to said interface mounting module, and a bearing positioned within said workpiece mounting module; and said bearing positioned within said workpiece mounting module is configured to enable pitch, yaw and roll movement of said headstock workpiece mounting module relative to said headstock apparatus. 33. The device of claim 32, wherein said movement of said headstock workpiece mounting module imparts said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus to rotate said workpiece without imposing additional bearing loads on said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus, said additional bearing loads induced by misaligning said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus out of a stance of alignment. 34. The device of claim 32, wherein said headstock interface assembly further defines a gap between said interface mounting module and said headstock workpiece mounting module, and said gap is configured to enable said pitch, yaw and roll movement of said headstock workpiece mounting module. 35. A device comprising a workpiece positioner assembly, said workpiece positioner assembly comprising: a headstock apparatus configured to rotate a workpiece and comprising a headstock interface assembly, wherein said headstock interface assembly is configured to secure said workpiece to said headstock apparatus, and said headstock interface assembly comprises a bearing configured to enable pitch, yaw and roll movement of said headstock interface assembly relative to said headstock apparatus; a tailstock apparatus configured to support said workpiece in cooperation with said headstock apparatus and comprising a tailstock interface assembly, wherein said tailstock interface assembly is configured to secure said workpiece to said tailstock apparatus, and said tailstock interface assembly comprises a tailstock bearing configured to enable axial movement of said workpiece relative to said tailstock apparatus; and wherein said headstock interface assembly and said tailstock interface assembly are each configured to eliminate additional bearing loads induced by misaligning said headstock apparatus or said tailstock apparatus out of a stance of alignment. 36. The device of claim 35, wherein said tailstock apparatus further comprises a tailstock pedestal, wherein said tailstock pedestal is mounted upon a frame or floor, and wherein said tailstock interface assembly is mounted to said tailstock pedestal. 37. The device of claim 36, wherein said tailstock interface assembly further comprises a shaft and a tailstock workpiece mounting module, said shaft is positioned within said tailstock workpiece mounting module, said tailstock workpiece mounting module is secured to a section of said workpiece, and said shaft is secured to said tailstock pedestal. 38. The device of claim 37, wherein said shaft defines a hollow interior for passage of electrical connections, pneumatic connections, and combinations thereof. 39. The device of claim 37, wherein said tailstock bearing defines a substantially spherical bearing positioned within said tailstock workpiece mounting module, and wherein said shaft is slideably engaged within said substantially spherical bearing which said engagement enables said axial movement of said workpiece relative to said tailstock apparatus. 40. The device of claim 39, wherein said substantially spherical bearing is configured to enable pitch, yaw and roll movement of said tailstock workpiece mounting module relative to said tailstock apparatus. 41. The device of claim 39, wherein said engagement of said shaft within said substantially spherical bearing imparts said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus to rotate said workpiece without imposing additional bearing loads on said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus, said additional bearing loads induced by misaligning said headstock apparatus and said tailstock apparatus out of a stance of alignment. 42. The device of claim 37, wherein said tailstock apparatus further comprises a shaft clamp, and wherein said shaft clamp is configured to secure said shaft to said tailstock pedestal. 43. A device comprising a workpiece positioner assembly, said workpiece positioner assembly comprising: a headstock apparatus configured to rotate a workpiece and comprising a headstock faceplate and headstock interface assembly, said headstock interface assembly comprising an interface mounting module, a headstock workpiece mounting module, and a guide module comprising a bushing block and a pin, wherein said headstock workpiece mounting module comprises a substantially spherical bearing configured to enable pitch, yaw and roll movement of said headstock workpiece mounting module relative to said headstock apparatus, said interface mounting module is secured to said headstock faceplate, said headstock workpiece mounting module is secured to said interface mounting module, said headstock workpiece mounting module is configured to secure said workpiece to said headstock apparatus, said guide module is secured to said interface mounting module, said pin is in communication with said headstock workpiece mounting module, said bushing block is positioned between said guide module and said pin, and said bushing block enables said pin to rotate and translate within said guide module providing pitch and yaw compliance; and a tailstock apparatus configured to support said workpiece in cooperation with said headstock apparatus and comprising a substantially spherical pillow block bearing and a tailstock interface assembly, wherein said tailstock interface assembly is configured to secure said workpiece to said tailstock apparatus, and said tailstock interface assembly comprises a shaft and a tailstock workpiece mounting module, wherein said tailstock workpiece mounting module is secured to said shaft, said shaft is positioned within said substantially spherical pillow block bearing, and said substantially spherical pillow block bearing is configured to enable axial movement of said workpiece relative to said tailstock apparatus. 44. A device comprising a workpiece positioner assembly, said workpiece positioner assembly comprising: a headstock apparatus configured to rotate a workpiece and comprising a headstock faceplate and headstock interface assembly, said headstock interface assembly comprising a hub, a headstock workpiece mounting module, and a guide module comprising a cam follower bearing, wherein said headstock workpiece mounting module comprises a substantially spherical bearing configured to enable pitch, yaw and roll movement of said headstock workpiece mounting module relative to said headstock apparatus, said hub is secured to said headstock faceplate, said headstock workpiece mounting module is secured to said hub, said headstock workpiece mounting module is configured to secure said workpiece to said headstock apparatus, said guide module is secured to said headstock faceplate, and said cam follower bearing is in communication with said headstock workpiece mounting module, wherein said cam follower bearing is configured to rotate and translate within said headstock workpiece mounting module providing pitch and yaw compliance; and a tailstock apparatus configured to support said workpiece in cooperation with said headstock apparatus and comprising a tailstock interface assembly and a shaft clamp, wherein said tailstock interface assembly is configured to secure said workpiece to said tailstock apparatus, and said tailstock interface assembly comprises a shaft and a tailstock workpiece mounting module, wherein said tailstock workpiece mounting module comprises a substantially spherical bearing, said shaft is slideably engaged within said substantially spherical bearing, said shaft is positioned within said shaft clamp, and said substantially spherical bearing is configured to enable axial movement of said workpiece relative to said tailstock apparatus. 