The present invention provides a pancreatic islet transcription factor and methods of treating and diagnosing diabetes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated nucleic acid encoding an IC-RFX polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO:2. 2. The nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid comprises SEQ ID NO:1. 3. An isolated nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide comprising in the following order: a proline/glutamine rich domain, an RFX DNA binding domain (SEQ ID NO:4), an RFX B domain (SEQ ID NO:5), an RFX C domain (SEQ ID NO:6), a dimerization domain (SEQ ID NO:7) and a serine/threonine domain. 4. An expression cassette comprising a promoter operably linked to the nucleic acid of claim 1 or claim 3. 5. An isolated host cell transfected with the nucleic acid of claim 1 or claim 3. 6. The host cell of claim 5, wherein the cell is a pancreatic islet cell. 7. The host cell of claim 6, wherein the cell is an islet .beta.-cell. 8. A method of detecting a polynucleotide in a subject, the method comprising detecting in a sample from the subject a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide comprising in the following order: a proline/glutamine rich domain, an RFX DNA binding domain (SEQ ID NO:4), an RFX B domain (SEQ ID NO:5), an RFX C domain (SEQ ID NO:6), a dimerization domain (SEQ ID NO:7) and a serine/threonine domain. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the polynucleotide is detected by hybridization. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the polynucleotide is detected by amplification of the polynucleotide. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the nucleotide sequence of the polynucleotide is determined. 12. A method of introducing an expression cassette into an isolated cell, the method comprising, introducing into the cell an expression cassette comprising a promoter operably linked to a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide, the polypeptide comprising in the following order: a proline/glutamine rich domain, an RFX DNA binding domain (SEQ ID NO:4), an RFX B domain (SEQ ID NO:5), an FRX C domain (SEQ ID NO:6), a dimerization domain (SEQ ID NO:7) and a serine/threonine domain. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO:2. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the polynucleotide comprises SEQ ID NO:1. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the cell is a pancreatic islet cell. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein the cell is an islet .beta.-cell. 