The present invention provides an improved system for linking nucleic acids to one another. In particular, the present invention provides techniques for producing DNA product molecules that may be easily and directly ligated to recipient molecules. The product molecules need not be cleaved with restriction enzymes in order to undergo such ligation. In preferred embodiments of the invention, the DNA product molecules are produced through iterative DNA synthesis reactions, so that the product molecules are amplified products. The invention further provides methods for directed ligation of product molecules (i.e., for selective ligation of certain molecules within a collection of molecules), and also for methods of exon shuffling, in which multiple different product molecules are produced in a single ligation reaction. Preferred embodiments of the invention involve ligation of product molecules encoding functional protein domains, particularly domains naturally found in conserved gene families. The inventive DNA manipulation system is readily integrated with other nucleic acid manipulation systems, such as ribozyme-mediated systems, and also is susceptible to automation.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of generating a recombinant double-stranded DNA molecule, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a template nucleic acid molecule; (b) contacting the template nucleic acid molecule with a first primer that hybridizes thereto, the first primer including at least one termination residue characterized in that the termination residue serves as a replication template for a first DNA polymerase, but does not serve as a replication template for a second DNA polymerase that is different from the first DNA polymerase; (c) extending the first primer in a first extension reaction to generate a complementary nucleic acid strand; (d) contacting the complementary nucleic acid strand with a second primer that hybridizes thereto; (e) extending the second primer with said second DNA polymerase in a second extension reaction, so that the termination residue is not copied in the second extension reaction and the second extension reaction produces a first double-stranded DNA molecule containing a first 5' overhang; (f) providing a second double-stranded DNA molecule containing a second overhang at least partly complementary with the first overhang; (g) forming an annealed DNA molecule by combining the first and second double-stranded DNA molecules under conditions that allow hybridization of the first and second overhangs; and (h) generating the recombinant double-stranded DNA molecule by exposing the annealed double-stranded DNA molecule to said first polymerase so that the termination residue is copied into said recombinant double-stranded DNA molecule. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein steps (a)-(e) are repeated, using the double-stranded DNA molecule produced in step (e) as the template, such that, through iteration, multiple copies of the first double-stranded DNA molecule are produced. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein step (h) comprises exposing the annealed double-stranded DNA molecule to said first polymerase in vitro. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (h) comprises exposing the annealed double-stranded DNA molecule to said first polymerase in vivo. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the annealed double-stranded DNA molecule is a nicked annealed double-stranded DNA molecule exposed in vivo to said first DNA polymerase without prior ligation. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the second primer includes at least one second termination residue characterized in that the second termination residue serves as a replication template for said first DNA polymerase, but does not serve as a replication template for said second DNA polymerase, such that the first double-stranded DNA molecule exhibits two 5' overhangs. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the termination residue and the second termination residue are the same. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the two 5' overhangs have identical sequences. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the two 5' overhangs have complementary sequences. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the two 5' overhangs have different sequences. 11. The method of claim 1 or claim 6, wherein the step (a) comprises providing a plurality of different template nucleic acid molecules. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein each of the different template nucleic acid molecules hybridizes with the same first primer. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the step (b) comprises contacting the plurality of different template nucleic acid molecules with a plurality of different first primers, such that different primers hybridize with different template nucleic acid molecules. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein each different template hybridizes with a different first primer. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein each complementary nucleic acid strand produced by extension of the first primer hybridizes with the same second primer. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein each complementary nucleic acid strand produced by extension of the first primer in the first extension reaction does not hybridize with the same second primer and the step (d) comprises contacting the complementary nucleic acid strands with a plurality of different second primers so that different second primers hybridize with different complementary nucleic acid strands. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein each complementary nucleic acid strand produced by extension of the plurality of different first primers in the first extension reaction hybridizes with the same second primer. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein each complementary nucleic acid strand produced by extension of the plurality of different first primers in the first extension reaction does not hybridize with the same second primer and the step (d) comprises contacting the complementary nucleic acid strands with a plurality of different second primers so that different second primers hybridize with different complementary nucleic acid strands. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein reactions using different template molecules are performed in different vessels. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein each reactions using a different template molecule is performed in a different vessel. 21. The method of claim 13, wherein reactions using different first primers are performed in different vessels. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein each reaction using a different first primer is performed in a different vessel. 23. The method of claim 16, wherein reactions using different second primers are performed in different vessels. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein each reaction using a different second primer is performed in a different vessel. 25. The method of claim 18, wherein reactions using different second primers are performed in different vessels. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein each reaction using a different second primer is performed in a different vessel. 27. The method of claim 1 or claim 6, further comprising: (a') providing a plurality of reaction vessels; and (b') performing steps (a)-(e) separately in each reaction vessel. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein each reaction vessel comprises a well in a multi-well plate. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein the step (f) comprises providing a plurality of different second double-stranded DNA molecules. 30. The method of claim 28, wherein the step (g) comprises forming a plurality of different annealed DNA molecules comprising different second double-stranded DNA molecules. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein steps (a)-(e) are performed with one or more pluralities selected from the group consisting of a plurality of different template nucleic acids, a plurality of different first primers, a plurality of different second primers, and combinations thereof, such that a plurality of different first double-stranded DNA molecules is produced in step (e). 32. The method of claim 31, wherein different first double stranded DNA molecules are produced in different reaction vessels. 33. The method of claim 30, wherein different annealed DNA molecules are generated in different reaction vessels. 34. The method of claim 32, wherein different first double-stranded DNA molecules are hybridized with different second double-stranded DNA molecules in different reaction vessels. 35. The method of claim 1, wherein the first double-stranded DNA molecule comprises a first protein-coding sequence. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the second double-stranded DNA molecule also comprises a second protein-coding sequence. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein the step (h) of generating the recombinant double-stranded DNA molecule comprises linking the first and second protein-coding sequences to generate an in-frame fusion. 38. The method of claim 27, wherein each of the first double-stranded DNA molecules comprises a first protein-coding sequence. 39. The method of claim 37 wherein each of the first double-stranded DNA molecule comprises a different first protein-coding sequence. 40. The method of claim 38, wherein the second double-stranded DNA molecule also comprises a second protein-coding sequence that is different from the first protein-coding sequence. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein step (h) comprises linking the first and second protein-coding sequences to generate an in-frame fusion. 42. The method of claim 30, wherein each different first double-stranded DNA molecule encodes a different protein-coding sequence. 43. The method of claim 42 wherein the step (f) comprises providing a second double-stranded DNA molecule that encodes a protein-coding sequence. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein the step (h) comprises generating a plurality of different recombinant DNA molecules in which different first double-stranded DNA molecules are linked with the second double-stranded DNA molecules to generate a plurality of in-frame fusions. 45. The method of claim 44, wherein different recombinant DNA molecules are generated in a reaction vessel. 46. The method of claim 44, wherein different recombinant DNA molecules are generated in different reaction vessels. 47. The method of claim 43, wherein the step (f) comprises providing a plurality of different second double-stranded DNA molecules encoding different protein-coding sequences. 48. The method of claim 47, wherein the step (h) comprises generating a plurality of different recombinant DNA molecules in which different first double stranded DNA molecules are linked with different second double-stranded DNA molecules to generate a plurality of in-frame fusions. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein different recombinant DNA molecules are generated in a reaction vessel. 50. The method of claim 48, wherein different recombinant DNA molecules are generated in different reaction vessels. 51. A method of generating a product DNA molecule, the method comprising steps of: (a) providing a template DNA molecule containing a first target sequence; (b) contacting the template DNA molecule with a first primer that hybridizes to said first target sequence, the first primer including a ribonucleotide residue that functions to block extension by a first DNA polymerase but does not block extension by a second DNA polymerase; (c) extending the first primer to generate a complementary nucleic acid strand that contains a second target sequence; (d) contacting the complementary nucleic acid strand with a second primer that hybridizes to said second target sequence; (e) extending the second primer with said first DNA polymerase wherein the ribonucleotide residue blocks extension by said first polymerase, producing a double stranded DNA molecule containing a first 5' overhang sequence; (f) combining the double stranded DNA molecule with a recipient DNA molecule containing a second 5' overhang sequence at least partly complementary with the first 5' overhang sequence to produce an annealed DNA molecule; and (g) generating the product DNA molecule by exposing the annealed DNA molecule to said second polymerase so that the ribonucleotide residue is copied into said product DNA molecule. 52. A method for producing a product DNA molecule encoding a desired protein sequence comprising: (a) amplifying a target nucleotide sequence with a first polymerase and a first and a second primer, wherein at least one of the first and second primers contains at least one terminator residue that functions to block replication by said first polymerase, so that an amplified product is produced that contains at least a first 5' overhang sequence; (b) combining said amplified product with a recipient molecule containing a second 5' overhang sequence complementary to said first 5' overhang sequence to produce a annealed DNA molecule; and (c) exposing said annealed DNA molecule to a second polymerase that is different from the first polymerase, said second polymerase functioning to copy said ribonucleotide residue into said product DNA molecule. 53. A method for forming a double stranded DNA molecule comprising a 5' overhang sequence, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a template nucleic acid molecule; (b) contacting the template nucleic acid molecule with a first primer that hybridizes thereto, the first primer including at least one termination residue characterized in that the termination residue serves as a replication template for a first DNA polymerase, but does not serve as a replication template for a second DNA polymerase that is different from the first DNA polymerase; (c) extending the first primer in a first extension reaction to generate a complementary nucleic acid strand; (d) contacting the complementary nucleic acid strand with a second primer that hybridizes thereto; (e) extending the second primer with said second DNA polymerase in a second extension reaction, so that the termination residue is not copied in the second extension reaction and the second extension reaction produces a first double-stranded DNA molecule containing a first 5' overhang sequence. 54. A method for forming a double stranded DNA molecule comprising a 5' overhang sequence, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a template DNA molecule containing a first target sequence; (b) contacting the template DNA molecule with a first primer that hybridizes to said first target sequence, the first primer including a ribonucleotide residue that functions to block extension by a first DNA polymerase but does not block extension by a second DNA polymerase; (c) extending the first primer to generate a complementary nucleic acid strand that contains a second target sequence; (d) contacting the complementary nucleic acid strand with a second primer that hybridizes to said second target sequence; (e) extending the second primer with said first DNA polymerase wherein the ribonucleotide residue blocks extension by said first polymerase, producing a first double stranded DNA molecule containing a first 5' overhang sequence. 55. A method for forming a 5' overhang sequence in a double stranded DNA molecule comprising: (a) providing a template DNA molecule containing a first target sequence; (b) contacting the template DNA molecule with a first primer that hybridizes to said first target sequence, the first primer including a ribonucleotide residue that functions to block extension by a first DNA polymerase but does not block extension by a second DNA polymerase; (c) extending the first primer to generate a complementary nucleic acid strand that contains a second target sequence; (d) contacting the complementary nucleic acid strand with a second primer that hybridizes to said second target sequence; (e) extending the second primer with said first DNA polymerase wherein the ribonucleotide residue blocks extension by said first polymerase, producing a first double stranded DNA molecule containing a 5' overhang sequence. 