A radiographic imaging system includes (100) a penetrating radiation source (110) including a first translating device (115), the first translating device (115) comprising a first controller (116) for positioning the radiation source. A radiation detector (120) includes second translating device (125) comprising a second controller for positioning the detector (120). A motion capture device (140) is communicably connected to both the first and second controllers. The motion capture device (140) tracks a position of the subject being imaged and provides position information to both the first controller (116) and second controllers (126) for dynamically coordinating trajectories for both the radiation source (110) and the radiation detector(120). The first and second translating devices preferably comprise robotic arms.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A radiographic imaging system, comprising: a penetrating radiation source including a first translating device, said first translating device comprising a first controller for positioning said radiation source; a radiation image detector including a second translating device positioned on a side of a subject to be imaged opposite said radiation source, said second translating device comprising a second controller for positioning said detector, wherein radiation from said radiation source passes through said region of said subject to said detector; and a motion capture device communicably connected to both said first and second controllers, said motion capture device tracking a position of said region of said subject and providing position information to both said first controller and second controllers for dynamically coordinating positions of said radiation source and said radiation detector for obtaining an image of said region wherein said system provides unrestricted motion of said source relative to said detector; wherein said system provides cone-beam computed tomography using imaging paths including paths other than a center of rotation located midway between said the source and said detector. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said motion capture device is spaced apart from said subject. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said first and second translating devices comprise robotic arms, said robotic arms including structure for moving said robotic arms, said robotic arms including at least one position sensor. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said motion capture device obtains real time position data for said region of said subject, said system utilizing said real time-data to dynamically guide said first and second controllers. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said system further comprises at least one of a first force/torque sensor disposed between an endpoint of said first translating device and said radiation source and a second force/torque sensor disposed between an endpoint of said second translating device said radiation detector. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising an overhead suspension system to carry a vertical load of at least one of said penetrating radiation source including said first translating device and said radiation detector including said second translating device. 7. A method of obtaining images, comprising the steps of: providing a radiographic imaging system which includes a movable and independently positionable penetrating radiation source and radiation image detector; obtaining dynamic radiographic images of the skeleton of a subject while said subject is in motion using said system, wherein movement of said source and detector is based on motion of said subject to obtain a plurality of aligned views to obtain an image of said subject; and obtaining tomographic scans of said subject, said tomographic scans providing 3D anatomic reconstruction of said subject. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said image detector is placed in contact and remains in contact with said subject during said obtaining of said dynamic radiographic images. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said images are recorded during weight-bearing activity by said subject. 10. The method of claim 7, further comprising the steps of obtaining real-time position data for said subject, and utilizing said real time-data to dynamically guide positions of said penetrating radiation source and said radiation image detector. 