Disclosed is a dense fluid spray cleaning apparatus comprising a gas supply (3) for providing a predetermined amount of a gas to an enhanced joule-thompson condensation reactor (2) and for providing gas to a propellant generator (4), a premix chamber (6) for receiving a solid particulate from the enhanced joule thompson condensation reactor and heated gas from the propellant generator, and a mixing chamber (8) for receiving the solid particulate and the heated gas and producing a spray stream containing the solid particulate.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A dense fluid spray cleaning apparatus for producing a stream containing a solid particulate comprising: a dense fluid propellant generator fluidly connected to a dense fluid supply for producing a heated, dense fluid propellant; an Enhanced Joule-Thompson Condensation Reactor fluidly connected to a dense fluid supply for producing a solid particulate from the dense fluid; a premixer for indirectly mixing the heated, dense fluid propellant received from the propellant generator and the solid particulate received from the enhanced Joule-Thompson Condensation Reactor, the premixer including inner and outer coaxial tubes, the inner coaxial tube in fluid connection with the Enhanced Joule-Thompson Condensation Reactor and the outer coaxial tube in fluid connection with the dense fluid propellant generator; and a mixer for directly mixing the heated dense fluid propellant and the solid particles received from a premix chamber to produce a stream containing the solid particulates. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the dense fluid propellant generator includes a dense fluid ionizer. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the Enhanced Joule-Thompson Condensation Reactor includes a spray nozzle and a loop, such that the spray nozzle injects dense fluid received from the dense fluid supply into the loop. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the loop has a length of from about 6 inches to about 20 feet, an outer diameter of from about 1/32 inch to about 1/8 inch, and an inner diameter of from about 0.0025 inch to about 0.80 inch. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the loop has a length of from about four feet to about five feet, an outer diameter of from about 1/32 inch to about 1/8 inch, and an inner diameter of from about 0.02 inch to about 0.80 inch. 6. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the loop is made of polyetheretherketone tubing. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the polyetheretherketone tubing is first overlapped with a grounded conductive shielding and then overlapped with a thermally insulative material. 8. A method for producing a spray cleaning stream containing a solid particulate formed from a dense fluid comprising: producing a heated, dense fluid propellant; producing the solid particulate from a dense fluid using an Enhanced Joule-Thompson Condensation Reactor; indirectly mixing the heated, dense fluid propellant and the solid particulate in a premix chamber having inner and outer coaxial tubes, the inner coaxial tube for transporting the solid particulate and the outer coaxial tube for transporting the dense fluid propellant; and directly mixing the heated dense fluid propellant and the solid particulate received from the premix chamber to produce the spray cleaning stream containing the solid particulate. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the solid particulate is made of carbon dioxide. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the dense fluid propellant has a temperature of from 70 F. to 300 F. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the dense fluid propellant is ionized. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the dense fluid propellant contains a solid abrasive. 13. The method of claim 9 wherein the solid particulate has a size from 100 micrometers to 0.2 micrometers. 