A device for handling a workpiece during a shaping process includes at least one gripping mechanism having at least two gripping elements that can move relative to one another for grasping the workpiece; at least one conveying device for conveying the gripping mechanism or at least one support apparatus to which the gripping mechanism is or may be attached; and at least one rotary drive for rotating the gripping mechanism about a rotational axis that extends through the gripping mechanism, and/or for rotating at least one of the gripping elements about a rotational axis that extends through the gripping element. The conveying device and the gripping mechanism can be connected to one another in a flexible manner in a flexible state while being positioned relative to one another in a rigid manner at least in one three-dimensional direction.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for handling a workpiece during a shaping process, in particular a forging process, comprising: a) at least one gripping mechanism having at least two gripping elements that can move relative to one another for grasping a workpiece; b) at least one conveying device for conveying one of: i) the at least one gripping mechanism; or ii) at least one support apparatus to which the at least one gripping mechanism is attached; and c) at least one rotary drive for performing at least one of: i) rotating the at least one gripping mechanism about a rotational axis that extends through the at least one gripping mechanism; and ii) rotating at least one of the at least two gripping elements about a rotational axis that extends through the at least one of the at least two gripping elements; wherein the at least one conveying device and the at least one gripping mechanism are connected to one another in a flexible manner in a flexible state while being connected to one another in a rigid manner: i) in at least one direction in space; or ii) in each rotational position of the at least one gripping mechanism; wherein the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least one support apparatus is connected to the at least one conveying device by at least one flexible element, such that: i) the flexible element connects the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least one support apparatus to the at least one conveying device in the flexible state; and ii) at least one support device that bridges the at least one flexible element supports the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least one support apparatus on or against the at least one conveying mechanism. 2. A handling device as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one flexible element is or may be adjusted in a flexible or rigid manner by hydraulic impingement at various internal pressures. 3. A handling device as recited in claim 1, wherein at least one rotary drive for rotating the at least one gripping mechanism is situated on the side of the at least one flexible element facing away from one or both of the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least one support apparatus. 4. A handling device as recited in claim 3, wherein the at least one flexible element transmits the torque of the at least one rotary drive for rotating the at least one gripping mechanism. 5. A handling device as recited in claim 3, wherein the at least one rotary drive for rotating the at least one gripping mechanism is situated between the at least one flexible element and the at least one conveying device. 6. A handling device as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one rotary drive for rotating the at least one gripping mechanism is situated on the side of the at least one flexible element facing away from the at least one conveying device. 7. A handling device as recited in claim 1, wherein at least one rotary drive comprises at least one electric drive motor, in particular a servomotor. 8. A handling device as recited in claim 7, wherein a drive shaft of the at least one electric drive motor is connected in a rotationally fixed manner by means of a flange to the at least one flexible element. 9. A handling device according to one claim 1, wherein the at least one rotary drive comprises a hydraulic drive or at least one pneumatic drive. 10. A handling device as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one support apparatus rotates along with the at least one gripping mechanism when the at least one gripping mechanism rotates. 11. A handling device as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one gripping mechanism and/or the at least one support apparatus in the supported state are supported by a support bearing of the at least one support device. 12. A handling device as recited in claim 11, wherein the support bearing for the at least one support device forms a rotary bearing for the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least one support apparatus, in which the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least one support apparatus rotate or are rotatable when the at least one gripping mechanism rotates. 13. A handling device as recited in claim 11, wherein the support bearing has an essentially cylindrical inner surface, and the at least one gripping mechanism or support apparatus have a cylindrical outer surface. 14. A handling device as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one support apparatus has a support shaft that can be supported in the support device. 15. A handling device as recited in claim 3, wherein the at least one gripping mechanism has an actuating device for moving the at least two gripping elements with respect to one another. 16. A handling device as recited in claim 15, wherein the at least one support apparatus has a carrier part in which the actuating device is mounted. 17. A handling device as recited in claim 16, wherein the carrier part of the at least one support apparatus is situated between the support shaft and the at least one flexible element. 18. A handling device according to claim 15, wherein the at least one gripping mechanism has at least two gripping levers that can be swiveled with respect to one another in a swivel bearing, such that each gripping lever supports at least one of the at least two gripping elements. 19. A handling device as recited in claim 18, wherein one of the at least two gripping levers is directly connected to the at least one support apparatus, and the other of the at least two gripping levers is coupled to the actuating device, such that the other of the at least two gripping levers is able to swivel with respect to the first gripping lever in the swivel bearing. 20. A handling device as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one support device is attached to the at least one conveying device. 21. A handling device as recited in claim 1, wherein the support device is attached to a drive housing of the at least one rotary drive. 22. A handling device as recited in claim 1, having at least one rotary drive for rotating the at least two gripping elements of the at least one gripping mechanism about a rotational axis of one or more components of the handling device. 23. A handling device as recited in claim 1, wherein at least one of the at least two gripping elements of the at least one gripping mechanism is rotatably mounted in a rotary bearing of the gripping mechanism about a rotational axis of the rotary bearing. 24. A handling device as recited in claim 23, wherein the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least two gripping elements rotate in a predetermined angular range. 25. A handling device as recited in claim 24, wherein the predetermined angular range is from at least 90.degree. to at least 360.degree.. 26. A handling device as recited in claim 23, wherein the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least two gripping elements rotates at least one or more complete revolutions about an axis of rotation. 27. A handling device as recited in claim 26, wherein one or a plurality of rotational positions can be established for rotation of one or both of the at least one gripping mechanism or the two or more gripping elements, such that the rotary drive can be regulated in one or more of small steps or of continuous motion. 28. A handling device as recited in claim 10, further comprising at least one locking device, which in the rigid state interlocks the at least one support device with the at least one gripping mechanism, at least one support apparatus, or at least one conveying device, but does not interlock with the at least one support device with the at least one gripping mechanism, at least one support apparatus, or at least one conveying device in the flexible state. 29. A handling device as recited in claim 28, wherein the locking device is provided on the support bearing for the at least one support device, and surrounds or encloses the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least one support apparatus, thereby preventing the gripping mechanism from falling out of the support bearing in any rotational position. 30. A method for shaping a workpiece in a shaping machine, wherein the workpiece is handled by at least one handling device, the method comprising: a) providing at least one gripping mechanism having at least two gripping elements that can move relative to one another for grasping the workpiece; b) providing at least one conveying device for conveying the at least one gripping mechanism or at least one support apparatus to which the at least one gripping mechanism is attached; c) providing at least one rotary drive for at least one of: i) rotating the at least one gripping mechanism about a rotational axis that extends through the at least one gripping mechanism; ii) rotating at least one of the at least two gripping elements about a rotational axis that extends through the at least one of the at least two gripping elements; and d) connecting the at least one conveying device and the at least one gripping mechanism, or the at least one support apparatus to which the at least one gripping mechanism is attached, to one another in a flexible manner in a flexible state while being positioning or connecting to one another in: i) a rigid manner at least in one three-dimensional direction; or ii) each rotational position of the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least two gripping elements in a rigid state; wherein the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least one support apparatus is connected to the at least one conveying device by at least one flexible element, such that: i) the flexible element connects the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least one support apparatus to the at least one conveying device in the flexible state; and ii) at least one support device that bridges the at least one flexible element supports the at least one gripping mechanism or the at least one support apparatus on or against the at least one conveying mechanism. 31. A method as recited in claim 30, further comprising: a) providing a workpiece; b) grasping the workpiece; c) conveying the workpiece to a shaping machine; d) bringing the workpiece into a predetermined shaping position; and e) shaping the workpiece in at least one shaping step in the shaping machine; wherein the workpiece is rotated or swiveled, before by the handling device by rotating one or both of the at least one gripping mechanism or at least one gripping elements of the handling device. 32. A method as recited in claim 31, wherein the workpiece is shaped in a forging hammer or a screw press as the shaping machine. 33. A method as recited in claim 32, wherein the workpiece is rotated by a swivel angle in a predetermined angular range of between at least 90.degree. and at least 360.degree.. 34. A method according to one of claim 33, wherein, during the shaping of the workpiece, the workpiece is held by at least one handling device. 35. A method as recited in claim 34, wherein the shaped workpiece is conveyed by the at least one handling device to a workpiece deposit station. 