This invention is a method and supporting apparatus for autonomously capturing, servicing and de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, such as a satellite, using robotics. The capture of the spacecraft includes the steps of optically seeking and ranging the satellite using LIDAR; and matching tumble rates, rendezvousing and berthing with the satellite. Servicing of the spacecraft may be done using supervised autonomy, which is allowing a robot to execute a sequence of instructions without intervention from a remote human-occupied location. These instructions may be packaged at the remote station in a script and uplinked to the robot for execution upon remote command giving authority to proceed. Alternately, the instructions may be generated by Artificial Intelligence (AI) logic onboard the robot. In either case, the remote operator maintains the ability to abort an instruction or script at any time, as well as the ability to intervene using manual override to teleoperate the robot. In one embodiment, a vehicle used for carrying out the method of this invention comprises an ejection module, which includes the robot, and a de-orbit module. Once servicing is completed by the robot, the ejection module separates from the de-orbit module, leaving the de-orbit module attached to the satellite for de-orbiting the same at a future time. Upon separation, the ejection module can either de-orbit itself or rendezvous with another satellite for servicing. The ability to de-orbit a spacecraft further allows the opportunity to direct the landing of the spent satellite in a safe location away from population centers, such as the ocean.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A servicing vehicle for servicing other free-flying spacecraft, comprising: a de-orbit module, and an ejection module including a robot system for servicing the spacecraft, the robot system having a grappling arm, and at least one dexterous arm, wherein the robot system is autonomously controlled by commands that are subject to override by a remote operator in telecommunication with the servicing vehicle. 2. A servicing vehicle for servicing other free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the ejection module further comprises stowage area for storing the robot system. 3. A servicing vehicle for servicing other free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the de-orbit module includes stowage area for tools, parts and instruments needed in servicing the spacecraft. 4. A servicing vehicle for servicing other free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the de-orbit module includes: relative and absolute navigation sensors for determining absolute servicing vehicle attitude and relative attitude between the servicing vehicle and the other spacecraft, guidance, navigation and control system actuators, thrusters, and momentum management devices. 5. A servicing vehicle for servicing other free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the ejection module further includes stowage area for tools, parts and instruments needed in servicing the spacecraft. 6. A servicing vehicle for servicing other free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the grappling arm is used to capture the other free-flying spacecraft. 7. A servicing vehicle for servicing other free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the de-orbit module and the ejection module are separable. 8. A servicing vehicle for servicing other free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the robot system is used to carry out servicing tasks. 9. A servicing vehicle for servicing other free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 8, wherein the servicing tasks include replacing degraded batteries with new batteries. 10. A servicing vehicle for servicing other free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 8, wherein the servicing tasks include replacing existing scientific instruments with new scientific instruments. 