A combined scheme of identification and torque control is provided for rotary hydraulic actuators. The composite controller consists of a dynamic feedback linearizing inner loop cascaded with a robust linear feedback outer loop. The proposed controller allows the actuator to generate desired torque irrespective of the actuator motion. In fact, the controller reduces significantly the impedance of the actuator as seen by its external load, making the system an ideal source of torque suitable for many robotics and automation applications. An identification method to extract the parameters of non-linear model of actuator dynamics and to estimate a bound for modeling uncertainty, used for synthesis of the outer optimal controller, is also presented. Results are illustrated experimentally on a pitch actuator of a Schilling industrial robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composite controller for a hydraulic actuator, the hydraulic actuator for generating a manipulating influence to be applied to a load, the controller comprising: a dynamic feedback linearizing controller inner loop for controlling the hydraulic actuator in accordance with a stored linear model representing non-linear dynamic behaviour of an unloaded hydraulic actuator; and a robust linear controller outer loop for compensating for non-linearities in the linear model based on an uncertainty model representing deviation of the linear model from linearity, the uncertainty model having a non-linear component and a linear time invariant component and an estimated upper bound, the robust linear controller having time invariant dynamics. 2. The controller of claim 1 wherein the inner loop and the outer loop co-operate to permit the hydraulic actuator to generate a desired manipulating influence irrespective of motion of the hydraulic actuator. 3. The controller of claim 1 wherein the hydraulic actuator includes a joint, and wherein the non-linear dynamic behaviour of the unloaded hydraulic actuator is obtained by substantially minimizing effects of the load on the manipulating influence by perturbing the linear model in response to a velocity of the joint. 4. The controller of claim 1 wherein the linear model is based on measured linear parameters of the hydraulic actuator. 5. The controller of claim 1 wherein the linearizing controller includes means for obtaining the linear model based on a linearizing control law for the hydraulic actuator. 6. The controller of claim 5 wherein the linearizing controller includes means for determining the linearizing control law for the hydraulic actuator. 7. The controller of claim 1 further comprising means for calculating the estimated upper bound. 8. The controller of claim 1 wherein the manipulating influence comprises a torque. 9. The controller of claim 1 wherein the manipulating influence comprises a force. 10. The controller of claim 1 wherein the hydraulic actuator is a rotary hydraulic actuator. 11. The controller of claim 1 wherein the hydraulic actuator is a linear hydraulic actuator. 12. A method of designing a hydraulic actuator controller, comprising: determining an uncertainty model to compensate for differences between a linearized model of the hydraulic actuator and actual behaviour of the hydraulic actuator, the uncertainty model including a non-linear component and a linear time invariant model component; estimating an uncertainty upper bound, for the uncertainty model, based on identified parameters of non-linear behaviour of the actuator; and designing a robust linear controller based on the determined uncertainty model and the estimated uncertainty upper bound so that the robust linear controller has time invariant dynamics. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the non-linear component is based on unmodeled actuator dynamics. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of estimating the uncertainty upper bound comprises: applying a dynamic feedback linearizing inner loop controller in conjunction with the robust linear controller in an outer loop; exciting the robust linear controller and obtaining measured values of input and output signals; and determining, based on the measured values of input and output signals, a valid value of the uncertainty upper bound the uncertainty model. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of designing the robust linear controller comprises imposing robust stability and performance constraints based on characteristics of the uncertainty model. 16. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of calculating a linearizing control law based on the identified parameters of non-linear behaviour of the actuator. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the linearizing control law comprises a dynamic feedback linearizing control law. 18. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of extracting the identified parameters based on measured signals. 19. A computer-readable storage medium, comprising statements and instructions which, when executed, cause a computer to perform the method of claim 12. 