Sequences of B.sub.12-dependent dehydratases with improved reaction kinetics are presented. Use of these B.sub.12-dependent dehydratases reduce the rate of the enzyme's suicide inactivation in the presence of glycerol and 1,3-propanediol. The enzymes were created using error-prone PCR and oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis to target the DhaB1 gene, which encodes the .alpha.-subunit of glycerol dehydratase. Mutants with improved reaction kinetics were rapidly identified using high throughput assays.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of screening for B.sub.12-dependent dehydratases having improved reaction kinetics, comprising: (a) contacting a B.sub.12-dependent dehydratase holoenzyme with a mixture comprising glycerol and 1,3-propanediol, wherein the 1,3-propanediol is at least 25 mM; and (b) screening the B.sub.12-dependent dehydratase holoenzyme to estimate the turnover ratio of the B.sub.12-dependent dehydratase. 2. A method for identifying B.sub.12-dependent dehydratase with improved reaction kinetics relative to a reference dehydratase comprising (a) providing a population of mutant dehydratase holoenzymes; (b) separately contacting each mutant dehydratase holoenzyme with 5-10 mM glycerol 10-300 mM 1,3-propanediol; (c) measuring at least two time points in a high throughput assay sufficiently separated to estimate k.sub.cat and total enzyme turnover for each mutant dehydratase holoenzyme of (b); (d) separately contacting the reference holoenzyme with 5-10 mM glycerol 10-300 mM 1,3-propanediol; (e) measuring at least two time points in a high throughput assay sufficiently separated to estimate k.sub.cat and total enzyme turnover for the reference holoenzyme of (d); and (f) selecting a B.sub.12-dependent mutant having improved reaction kinetics relative to the reference dehydratase, said kinetics determined by comparing the measurements of step (c) with the measurements of step (e). 3. A method for identifying B.sub.12-dependent dehydratase with improved reaction kinetics relative to a reference dehydratase comprising (a) providing a population of mutant dehydratase holoenzymes; (b) separately contacting each mutant dehydratase holoenzyme with 5-50 mM glycerol and >300 mM 1,3-propanediol; (c) measuring one time point in a high throughput assay sufficiently separated from T0 to estimate the total enzyme turnover number for each mutant dehydratase holoenzyme of (b); (d) separately contacting the reference holoenzyme with 5-50 mM glycerol and >300 mM 1,3-propanediol; (e) measuring one time point in a high throughput assay sufficiently separated from T0 to estimate the total enzyme turnover number for the reference holoenzyme of (d); and (f) selecting a B.sub.12-dependent mutant having improved reaction kinetics relative to the reference dehydratase, said kinetics determined by comparing the measurements of step (c) with the measurements of step (e). 