A disk dispenser including a spindle having a first end and a second end, the second end having a disk support foot arranged to support a stack of disks, wherein the disk support foot is movable from an extended position at which a portion of the disk support foot is axially extending beyond a diameter of the spindle for supporting a stack of disks and a withdrawn position at which the portion of the disk support foot is not substantially axially extending beyond the diameter of the spindle for loading the stack of disks onto the spindle; and a pusher for separating at least one disk from the stack of disks on the spindle.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of dispensing a disk from a stack of disks, the method comprising: loading a disk dispenser with a stack of disks, the disk dispenser including a spindle having a first end and a second end and a disk support foot at the second end; fully supporting the stack of disks on the spindle using the disk support foot; providing a space in the spindle at the second end such that horizontally displacing the lower-most disk into the space separates the lower-most disk from the stack of disks; and horizontally displacing the lower-most disk including pushing an outer edge of the lower-most disk, such that the lower-most disk falls from the spindle. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving the disk support foot from an extended position arranged to support a stack of disks to a withdrawn position arranged to allow loading of the stack of disks over the disk support foot and onto the spindle. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein separating the lower-most disk comprises horizontally displacing the lower-most disk of the stack of disks into the space in the spindle such that the lower-most disk is not supported by the disk support foot and dispensed from the disk dispenser. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising dispensing the lower-most disk onto a tray. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising a disk writer for writing on the lower-most disk in the tray. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising releasing the lower-most disk from the tray into a receptacle. 7. A method of dispensing a disk from a stack of disks, the method comprising: loading a disk dispenser with a stack of disks; fully supporting the stack of disks using a spindle; separating a lower-most disk from the stack of disks including horizontally displacing the lower-most disk into a spacer formed in the spindle, and; horizontally displacing the lower-most disk including pushing an outer edge of the lower-most disk where the horizontally displaced disk falls from the spindle including the stack of disks. 