Methods, systems, and apparatuses for forming a radio frequency identifiable disc medium storage device are described. A metal layer is deposited onto a disc. At least one metal trace on the disc is connected to the metal layer. An adhesive interposer is attached to the disc around an opening in the center of the disc. The interposer includes an integrated circuit die. Pads of the integrated circuit die are coupled to the at least one pair of metal traces by the interposer. The interposer further includes a matching network. A coating is formed on the disc to encapsulate the metal layer, interposer, and integrated circuit die.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A radio frequency identifiable disc medium, comprising: a disc substrate; a metal layer on the disc substrate including digitally encoded tracks of information; at least one metal trace on the disc substrate coupled to said metal layer; and an interposer attached to said disc substrate, said interposer including: an interposer substrate; an integrated circuit die; an impedance matching network patterned on said interposer substrate and coupled to said die; and an electrical connector that couples said die with said at least one metal trace. 2. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 1, wherein said at least one metal trace is provided on a portion of the disc substrate other than the portion including digitally encoded tracks of information and is coupled to said metal layer. 3. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 1, wherein said disc substrate has a centrally located opening, said interposer is attached to the disc substrate around the centrally located opening, said metal layer including digitally encoded tracks of information is located radially outward of said interposer, and said at least one trace is provided on a portion of the disc substrate between said interposer and said metal layer. 4. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 1, wherein said at least one metal trace includes at least a pair of opposing metal traces. 5. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 1, wherein said at least one metal trace includes a circular line portion. 6. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 1, wherein said at least one metal trace includes a radial line portion. 7. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 1, wherein said at least one metal trace includes at least one T-shaped portion including a circular line portion and a radial line portion coupled to said circular line portion. 8. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 7, wherein said at least one metal trace includes at least a pair of T-shaped metal traces. 9. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 8, wherein said at least one metal trace includes at least one opposing pair of T-shaped metal traces. 10. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 9, wherein said at least one metal trace includes two opposing pairs of T-shaped metal traces. 11. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 7, wherein said disc substrate has a centrally located opening, and said at least one metal trace includes at least two T-shaped metal traces symmetrically arranged around said centrally located opening. 12. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 1, wherein said electrical connection of said interposer includes conductive pads respectively coupled to said at least one metal trace. 13. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 1, further comprising a coating that encapsulates the metal layer, the at least one metal trace and the interposer on the disc substrate. 14. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 1, wherein said disc medium is a digital video disc (DVD). 15. The radio frequency identifiable disc medium of claim 1, wherein said disc medium is a compact disc (CD). 