The present subject matter includes a capacitor stack disposed in a case, the capacitor stack including one or more substantially planar electrode layers. The one or more substantially planar electrode layers have an etched surface, an unetched surface, and a grade bordering the etched surface and the unetched surface. Also, the present subject matter includes a lid conforming sealingly connected to the material defining the first aperture. Additionally, the present subject matter includes a feedthrough assembly connected to the capacitor stack and passing through the feedthrough hole and sealingly connected to the material defining the feedthrough hole. In the present subject matter, the one or more substantially planar electrode layers are made by printing a curable resin mask onto the one or more substantially planar electrode layers and etching the layers, the curable resin mask defining the grade and adapted to resist etching.
Claims We claim: 1. A process, comprising: depositing a curable resin mask onto a foil to define a grade between foil covered with curable resin mask and foil not covered with curable resin mask; curing the curable resin mask into a cured mask; etching the foil, the cured mask restricting the etch; removing the cured mask from the foil; anodizing the foil; assembling the foil into a flat capacitor stack; and inserting the flat capacitor stack into a capacitor case. 2. The process of claim 1, comprising: connecting one or more electrical conductors to the capacitor stack; filling the capacitor case with an electrolyte; and sealing the one or more electrical conductors to the capacitor case such that the one or more electrical conductors extend outside the capacitor case and are electrically isolated from the case. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein assembling the foil into a flat capacitor stack includes: aligning a cutting tool to the foil using one or more visual alignment features printed onto the foil; cutting the foil into shapes with a cutting tool; and stacking the shapes into a capacitor stack, the cutting tool aligned using one or more features for visual alignment printed onto the foil. 4. The process of claim 1, comprising: depositing a second curable resin mask on a second side of the foil, the second curable resin mask defining a second grade between foil covered with curable resin mask and foil not covered with curable resin mask. 5. The process of claim 1, comprising shaping the grade like a sinusoidal curve. 6. The process of claim 1, comprising shaping the grade like a square wave. 7. The process of claim 1, wherein the grade includes a halftone. 8. The process of claim 7, wherein the halftone transitions from covering from about 80% of the grade to covering about 60% of the grade. 9. The process of claim 1, comprising defining the grade with a series of geometric shapes. 10. The process of claim 9, wherein the shapes are approximately circular. 11. The process of claim 1, wherein the curable resin mask includes an ink. 12. The process of claim 11, comprising printing the curable resin mask using a computer controlled system. 13. A process for making a capacitor stack, comprising: depositing a curable resin mask onto an electrode to define a grade between electrode covered with curable resin mask and electrode not covered with curable resin mask; curing the curable resin mask into a cured mask; etching the electrode, the cured mask restricting the etch; removing the cured mask from the electrode; anodizing the electrode; assembling the electrode into the capacitor stack; and wrapping the capacitor stack such that the capacitor stack is maintained in alignment. 14. The process of claim 13 comprising taping the capacitor stack. 15. The process of claim 13 comprising: stacking the electrode into a flat stack; aligning a plurality of connection members; and electrically connecting a portion of the plurality of connection members. 16. The process of claim 13 comprising: packaging the capacitor stack in a hermetically sealed capacitor case; and aging a capacitor including the capacitor stack. 17. A process for making a capacitor stack, comprising: defining a grade by depositing a curable resin mask onto a first substantially planar electrode including a first connection member; curing the curable resin mask into a cured mask; etching the substantially planar electrode, the cured mask restricting the etch; removing the cured mask from the substantially planar electrode; anodizing the substantially planar electrode; assembling the first substantially planar electrode into a capacitor stack with a second substantially planar electrode including a second connection member; aligning the first connection member and the second connection member such that a portion of the first connection member is in a connection member stack with a portion of the second connection member; and forcing together the first connection member and the second connection member, such that the first connection member bends along a portion of the grade. 18. The process of claim 17 comprising staking the first connection member and the second connection member. 19. The process of claim 17 comprising laser welding the first connection member and the second connection member. 20. A process, comprising: depositing a curable resin mask onto a foil; baking the curable resin mask into a cured mask in a radiant oven; etching the foil, the cured mask restricting the etch; removing the cured mask from the foil; anodizing the foil; assembling the foil into a flat capacitor stack and; inserting the flat capacitor stack into a capacitor case. 21. The process of claim 20, further comprising depositing a curable resin mask onto a foil to define a grade between foil covered with curable resin mask and foil not covered with curable resin mask. 22. The process of claim 21, wherein the grade includes a halftone. 