A method of supplying a media web to a wallpaper printer. the method includes opening a reusable case, placing into the case a core onto which has been located a supply roll of a blank media web and supporting the core for rotation within the case. then, leading a free edge of the roll between a pair of rollers and past an edge of the open case and closing the case. next the case is loaded into a self threading printer with the rollers located within the case and on either side of the media web. the printer includes a full width digital color printhead and the printhead prints a wallpaper pattern on at least part of the media web to produce wallpaper.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of supplying a media web to a web printer, comprising the steps of: opening a reusable case; placing into the case a core onto which has been located a supply roll of a blank media web; supporting the core for rotation within the case; leading a free edge of the roll between a pair of rollers and past an edge of the open case; introducing the rollers into a pair of roller support devices having lunettes arranged on resilient bias extensions that hold the rollers in proximity; closing the case and loading the case into a self threading printer with the rollers located within the case and on either side of the media web; wherein, the printer includes a full width digital color printhead and the printhead prints a pattern on at least part of the media web. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the web is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.02 square meters per second (775 square feet per hour). 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the web is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.1 square meters per second (3875 square feet per hour). 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the web is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.2 square meters per second (7750 square feet per hour). 5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead has more than 7,680 nozzles. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead has more than 20,000 nozzles. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead has more than 250,000 nozzles. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 5 picoliters. 9. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 1.5 picoliters. 10. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printer comprises: a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media cartridge loading area to a winding area; the printhead located in the media path; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing the web; and, the winding area adapted to removably retain a second core and wind the web onto the second core. 11. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the case includes two halves, hinged together, and an area between the two halves, when closed, defining a media supply slot. 12. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising the step of providing a consumer tote for carrying the web, the tote comprising: a disposable exterior in which is formed a main access flap and a pair of core access openings; and, the tote having an interior in which is located a disposable core which is aligned with the access openings. 13. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printer has a transverse cutter to cut the web. 14. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printer has a slitting mechanism. 15. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printer has a dryer. 16. The method as claimed in claim 15, further including the step of allowing the media web to descend into a compartment and blowing heated air from the dryer. 17. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising receiving an operator input from one or more input devices and printing the web, on demand, according to a selected web pattern. 18. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printer comprises a number of replaceable ink reservoirs which supply the printhead with different inks through tubes which can be disconnected so the printhead can be removed. 19. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printer includes a motor for advancing the media web out of the case and one or more other motors to urge the media web along a media pathway. 20. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the case includes an opening allowing a spindle to rotate at least one of the rollers via a coupling formed in the roller. 