A defect review system includes a stage, a light source, a turning mirror, and a ring of collectors. The stage supports and moves an article for inspection, the article having a surface. The light source provides light. The turning mirror turns the light toward the surface at an oblique incident angle whereby the light illuminates a spot on the surface and the light scatters from the spot. The ring of collectors is adapted to collect scattering light. A method of reviewing surface of a wafer is disclosed. The method provides a dark-field mode of operation adapted to inspect the surface by illuminating a spot on the surface at an oblique angle and collecting scattering light from the surface. Further, the method provides a bright-field mode of operation adapted to inspect the surface by illuminating a spot on the surface at a normal angle to examine the reflecting light.
Claims We claim: 1. A defect review system comprising: a stage operable to support and move an article for inspection, the article having a surface; a light source operable to provide illuminating light; means for scanning the illuminating light in 2D raster pattern toward the surface at an oblique incident angle and at a substantially normal incident angle; and a ring of collectors mounted in a plane parallel to the surface to collect scattering light and at least one optical sensor adapted to collect reflective light from the surface. 2. The defect review system recited in claim 1 wherein each collector of said ring of collectors is associated with a coupling lens and a fiber optic channel. 3. The defect review system of claim 1 wherein at least one collector of said ring of collectors is associated with a retractable polarization filter. 4. A defect review system comprising: a stage operable to support and move an article for inspection, the article having a surface; a light source operable to provide illuminating light; means for scanning the illuminating light in 2D raster pattern toward the surface at an oblique incident angle and at a substantially normal incident angle; and a ring of collectors mounted in a plane parallel to the surface to collect scattering light and at least one optical sensor adapted to collect reflective light from the surface; and a laser marking subsystem adapted to generate laser marks on the surface. 5. A method of reviewing surface of a wafer, the method comprising: providing a dark field mode of operation adapted to inspect the surface by scanning the illuminating light in 2D raster pattern toward the surface at an oblique incident angle and collecting scattering light from the surface with a ring of detectors mounted in a plane parallel to the surface; and providing a bright field mode of operation adapted to inspect the surface by scanning the illuminating light in 2D raster pattern toward the surface at a substantially normal incident angle and collecting reflective light from the surface with at least one optical sensor. 6. The method recited in claim 5 further comprising: providing a marking mode of operation to laser mark a plurality of coordinate reference points near the edge of the wafer and to laser mark selective locations of defects, and to save the coordinates of these laser marks in a defect map file. 