A bipolar surgical instrument that includes opposing grips that can engage the tissue. A current is delivered from an electrosurgical power source to electrodes disposed on the grips to cauterize the tissue. The electrode configurations provide efficient cauterization of the tissue. In some embodiments, the positive and negative electrodes will be offset from each other to prevent shorting and to provide a thin line of coagulation heating to the gripped tissue. In some embodiments the electrodes are removably coupled to the grips through nonconductive sleeves. In some embodiments, the first electrode is disposed in a groove and the second electrode is disposed on a boss.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical instrument comprising: a first jaw having a groove and a first electrode, and a second jaw having a boss and a second electrode, wherein the first and second jaws are pivotably coupled to each other so as to be movable to and between fully open and closed positions, the first and second electrodes are respectively disposed in the groove and on the boss when the first and second jaws are in the fully open position, the groove and the boss are respectively disposed on the first and second jaws so that the boss fits within the groove when the first and second jaws are in the closed position, and the first and second electrodes are respectively disposed in the groove and on the boss so that a gap is maintained between the first and second electrodes when the first and second jaws are in the closed position. 2. The surgical instrument according to claim 1, wherein the first and second electrodes are respectively coupled to the first and second jaws through first and second nonconductive sleeves that respectively fit over the first and second jaws. 3. The surgical instrument according to claim 1, further comprising: a shaft, and a wrist mechanism rotatably coupling the first and second jaws to the shaft. 4. A robotic surgical system comprising: a surgical instrument having first and second jaws, the first jaw having a groove and a first electrode, the second jaw having a boss and a second electrode, wherein the first and second jaws are pivotably coupled to each other so as to be movable to and between fully open and closed positions, the first and second electrodes are respectively disposed in the groove and on the boss when the first and second jaws are in the fully open position, the groove and the boss are respectively disposed on the first and second jaws so that the boss fits within the groove when the first and second jaws are in the closed position, and the first and second electrodes are respectively disposed in the groove and on the boss so that a gap is maintained between the first and second electrodes when the first and second jaws are in the closed position; a robotic arm coupled to the surgical instrument; a master controller; and a processor configured to cause the robotic arm to manipulate the surgical instrument in response to operator interaction with the master controller. 5. The robotic surgical system according to claim 4, further comprising: an electrosurgical power supply switchably coupled to the first and second electrodes. 6. The robotic surgical system according to claim 4, further comprising: an actuatable handle, wherein the processor is configured to cause the first and second jaws to be movable to and between the fully open and closed positions in response to operator manipulation of the actuatable handle. 