This invention provides compositions and methods for HCV typing, e.g., genotyping and/or subtyping. The compositions and methods of the invention can be used to assign an HCV isolate to one of at least five HCV genotypes (for example, selected from genotypes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6), or assign an HCV isolate to one of at least six subtypes (for example, selected from subtypes 1a/b/c, 2a/c, 2b, 3a, 4a, 5a or 6a), where the methods of the invention use only a single typing probe to make the HCV type assignment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A single-tube method for determining the type of a hepatitis C virus (HCV) and an HCV viral load in a sample, the method comprising: a) amplifying a portion of the HCV genome, from the sample via asymmetric PCR, thereby producing a limiting amplicon strand and an excess amplicon strand; b) hybridizing said limiting amplicon strand, with an amplicon quantitation probe and quantifying the amount of said limiting amplicon strand; c) hybridizing said excess amplicon strand, with a typing probe to form a target hybridization complex, wherein: i) said typing probe is complementary or partially complementary to a nucleotide sequence within an HCV genome; ii) said nucleotide sequence within an HCV genome shows sequence heterogeneity among at least five HCV genotypes or at least six HCV subtypes; and, iii) hybridization complexes comprising said typing probe and the at least five HCV genotypes or the at least six HCV subtypes have a distinguishing hybridization property that differentiates each of the HGV genotypes or HCV subtypes; d) measuring said distinguishing hybridization property of the target hybridization complex, and, e) correlating said measured distinguishing hybridization property of the target hybridization complex with a similar property of an HCV genotype or subtype wherein all the steps above are performed in a single tube. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said typing probe comprises a FRET donor, a FRET quencher or both. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said typing probe is a nucleotide oligomer comprising naturally-occurring nucleotides, modified nucleotides, nucleotide analogs, one or more unnatural bases, unnatural internucleotide linkages, unnatural nucleotide backbones, or any combination thereof. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said arnplicon quantitation probe comprises a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 41. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said amplicon quantitation probe comprises a FRET donor moiety and a FRET quencher moiety wherein the amplicon quantitation probe forms a quantitation hybridization complex with the amplicon under conditions wherein base-pairing occurs. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the amplifying step comprises detecting the donor moiety during the amplification step. 