A novel jig device useful for transporting and testing an IC chip is disclosed. The jig device comprises a main jig body, having a holding part onto which the IC chip to be tested is attracted and held and at least one suction path is formed, and at least one contact probe arranged in the suction path of the main jig body. The main jig body comprises preferably a base part and front head part. The contact probe connects electronically between a terminal of the IC chip held at the holding part and an electrode of circuit board of tester.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A jig device useful for transporting and testing a semiconductor integrated circuit chip comprising: (i) a main jig body composed essentially of a non conductive material having a cavity on a surface thereof, and at least one internal suction path; (ii) a positioning platform arranged in said cavity with at least one spring, said positioning platform having a cone shaped holding part into which said semiconductor integrated circuit chip is fitted and at least one suction path connected to said internal suction path of a main jig body; and (iii) at least one contact probe being fitted in said main jig body, penetrating said positioning platform and electrically connecting at least one terminal of said semiconductor integrated circuit chip to at least one electrode to a test circuit board when said semiconductor integrated circuit chip being transferred while gripped in said positioning platform is pressed on a pressing stand. 2. A jig device as set forth in claim 1, in which said main jig body comprises: a base part having at least one internal suction path therein; and a front head part having at least one internal suction path therein connected to said at least one suction path in said base part and said cavity on a surface thereof. 3. A jig device as set forth in claim 2, in which said cone-shaped holding part formed on said positioning platform is a cavity having a tapered entrance and a vertical surrounding wall. 4. A jig device as set forth in claim 2, in which said test circuit board is arranged between said base part and said front head part. 5. A jig device as set forth in claim 3, in which said test circuit board is arranged between said base part and said front head part. 6. A jig device for simultaneously transporting and testing a semiconductor integrated circuit chip using a robotic arm, said chip having a first surface comprising a plurality of terminals and an opposite surface comprising at least one optical element, the device comprising: (i) a main jig body comprising a non conductive material, said body having a cavity extending to a surface thereof and at least one internal suction path extending to said cavity; (ii) a spring loaded positioning platform in said cavity comprising a chip area for receiving said semiconductor circuit chip and at least one platform suction path connected to said internal suction path of said main jig body, the chip area also comprising a cone shaped entry section; (iii) at least one contact probe in said main jig body, extending into said positioning platform through said internal suction path for electrically connecting at least one terminal of said semiconductor integrated circuit chip to at least one electrode of a test circuit board; and (iv) a pressing stand for pressing said chip while gripped in said chip area against said contact probe without damaging said at least one optical element when said robotic arm places said chip on said pressing stand. 