The presnt invention provides essential fungal polynucleotides and their encoded polypeptides, homologues thereof and their uses. Additionally, the invention provides methods for the identification of essential polynucleotides and fungal strains which may be used for drug screening.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated nucleic acid molecule consisting of a polynucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of: (a) an isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide consisting of amino acids 1 to 346 of SEQ ID NO:12; and (b) an isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide consisting of amino acids 2 to 346 of SEQ ID NO:12; wherein said encoded polypeptide has keto-steroid reductase activity. 2. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is (a). 3. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 2, wherein said polynucleotide consist of nucleotides 1 to 1038 of SEQ ID NO:1. 4. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide is (b). 5. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 4, wherein said polynucleotide consist of nucleotides 4 to 1038 of SEQ ID NO:1. 6. A recombinant vector consisting of the isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 operably linked to a promoter at the 5' end and operably linked to a stop codon at the 3' end, wherein said vector comprises an origin of replication and a selectable marker. 7. An isolated recombinant host cell comprising the vector sequence of claim 6. 8. A method of making an isolated polypeptide comprising: (a) culturing the isolated recombinant host cell of claim 7 under conditions such that said polypeptide is expressed; and (b) recovering said polypeptide. 9. An isolated nucleic acid molecule consisting of a polynucleotide having a nucleotide sequence that is at least 95.0% identical to a polynucleotide sequence provided in claim 1, wherein percent identity is calculated using a CLUSTALW global sequence alignment using default parameters, and wherein said polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide that has keto-steroid reductase activity. 10. An isolated nucleic acid molecule consisting of a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide that is at least 95.0% identical to amino acids 2 to 346 of SEQ ID NO:12, wherein percent identity is calculated using a CLUSTALW global sequence alignment using default parameters, and wherein said polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide that has keto-steroid reductase activity. 11. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide consisting of at least 318 contiguous amino acids of SEQ ID NO:12, wherein said polypeptide has keto-steroid reductase activity. 12. The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 11, wherein said polynucleotide consists of at least 954 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO:1. 13. An isolated polynucleotide consisting of the complete complementary sequence of (a) or (b) of claim 1. 