A printer is provided having a removably mounted printhead assembly. The printhead assembly has a printhead module, a circuit assembly and a support frame. The module has at least two printhead integrated circuits having fluid ejection nozzles, a support member supporting and carrying printing fluid for the printhead ICs and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead ICs. The circuit assembly has linearly aligned first PCBs each having drive electronics for controlling operation of the printhead ICs via the electrical connector, a second PCB at one end of the first PCBs for connecting the drive electronics to power and data supplies, and a third PCB having a spring portion at an opposite end of the first PCBs. The support frame removably mounts the printhead module and the circuit assembly so that the second and third PCBs are arranged at the respective longitudinal ends of the support frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printer comprising a removably mounted printhead assembly, the printhead assembly comprising: a printhead module incorporating at least two printhead integrated circuits each having fluid ejection nozzles, a support member supporting and carrying printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits; a circuit assembly comprising linearly aligned first printed circuit boards which each have drive electronics for controlling operation of the printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector, a second printed circuit board arranged at one end of first printed circuit boards for connecting the drive electronics to power and data supplies, and a third printed circuit board having a spring portion arranged at an opposite end of the first printed circuit boards; and a support frame on which the printhead module and the circuit assembly are removably mounted, the second and third printed circuit boards being arranged at the respective longitudinal ends of the support frame. 2. A printer according to claim 1, wherein the first printed circuit boards of the circuit assembly are mounted to the support frame so as to be linearly aligned in the longitudinal direction thereof. 3. A printer according to claim 2, wherein the third printed circuit board comprises termination connections on the spring portion for terminating a data signal traversing the first printed circuit boards from the second printed circuit board. 4. A printer according to claim 1, wherein the spring portion is integrally formed within the material of the third printed circuit boards, the spring portion being arranged with edge electrical connections of the third printed circuit board. 5. A printer according to claim 1, wherein: the printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least two fluid distribution members each mounting a respective one of the printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the channel to associated nozzles in the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 