Developmental systems (1/11) are provided with an autotelic mechanism for driving their development. An autotelic component (1) in the system uses a mapping mechanism (2) to produce an output based on a set of inputs. The mapping mechanism (2) implements a mapping that is dependent upon a state associated therewith. The content of the state is changed by a learning/repair module (3) based on interactions between the system and the environment, and so reflects knowledge gained by this component as a result of its experience. The autotelic component (1) monitors its own performance with reference to the level of a set of one or more challenge parameters whose levels quantify the complexity of different parameters relating to the autotelic component (1). The state associated with the mapping mechanism 2 is altered depending upon the component's performance as evaluated during the monitoring. A controller (5) controls the levels of the challenge parameters.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A self-developing artificial device, wherein the process of development of said self-developing artificial device is driven by a requirement to achieve a performance level which matches a changeable level of challenge set by the device itself, wherein said self-developing artificial device has a mapping mechanism which applies a mapping function to a set of one or more inputs in order to produce one or more outputs, the device further comprising: a controller for generating a set of one or more challenge parameters defining criteria to be satisfied by said self-developing device when performing a task, wherein the controller functions in an operation phase and a shake-up phase, and holds said set of challenge parameters unchanged during a respective instance of the operation phase and, during each instance of the shake-up phase, selects and alters the value of one or more challenge parameters of said set; performance monitoring means for monitoring, during each of a series of time intervals, the performance of said task by said self-developing device and evaluating the extent to which the performance satisfies the criteria defined by the set of challenge parameters generated by said controller; and a learning module for adapting the mapping function applied by said self-developing device, based on the performance monitored by the performance monitoring means to control the self-developing device to match the performance of said self-developing device to said criteria defined by said set of challenge parameters. 2. The self-developing artificial device according to claim 1, wherein, in use, when the performance monitoring means detects a difference, greater than a threshold amount, between the actual performance of said self-developing device and a performance level indicated by the set of challenge parameters then said performance monitoring means generates a failure signal and, in response to the generation of a failure signal, the controller instructs the learning module to implement a set of one or more repairs selected in a list of candidate repairs, if available. 3. The self-developing artificial device according to claim 2, wherein, in use, in response to the generation of a failure signal, the controller instructs the learning module to implement a respective single repair. 4. The self-developing artificial device according to claim 2, wherein, in use, the controller filters out from the list of candidate repairs any repairs which have previously been tried unsuccessfully. 5. The self-developing artificial device according to claim 2, wherein, in use, after the controller has instructed the learning module to implement said set of one or more repairs said self-developing device attempts to apply the mapping function thereof to the same set of inputs as that which provoked generation of the failure signal motivating the repair(s). 6. The self-developing artificial device according to claim 2, wherein the value of each challenge parameter in said set is indicative of a level of complexity. 7. The self-developing artificial device according to claim 6, wherein each challenge parameter is defined to take values within a range of 0.0 to 1.0, with 1.0 representing the greatest level of complexity. 8. The self-developing artificial device according to claim 7, wherein at start-up of development the controller sets values for the challenge parameters at a low end of their respective ranges. 9. The self-developing artificial device according to claim 2, wherein the controller changes over from functioning in the operation phase to functioning in the shake-up phase when it is determined that the change in performance levels of said self-developing device from one time interval to the next is less than a threshold amount. 10. The self-developing artificial device according to claim 2, wherein a set of one or more skill variables (<s.sub.1, s.sub.2, . . . , s.sub.r>) is defined for said self-developing device, the value of each skill variable(s) quantifying a respective capability of, or resource used by, the self-developing device, and the controller changes over from functioning in the operation phase to functioning in the shake-up phase when it is determined that the changes in performance levels and skill levels of said self-developing device from one time interval to the next are less than respective threshold amounts. 11. The self-developing artificial device according to claim 2, wherein the controller changes a single challenge parameter, or a small number of challenge parameters, during each instance of the shake-up phase. 12. A system comprising a plurality of agents each agent being the self-developing artificial device according to claim 2, wherein, in use, when a first one of said self-developing devices is unable successfully to process an output produced by a second one of said self-developing devices said first self-developing device can generate a failure signal in respect of a component of said second self-developing device. 13. A self-developing artificial apparatus comprising: a plurality of self-developing modules, wherein each module has a mapping mechanism which applies a mapping function to a set of one or more inputs in order to produce one or more outputs; a controller for generating a set of one or more challenge parameters defining criteria to be satisfied by at least one of said modules when performing a task, wherein the controller functions in an operation phase and a shake-up phase, and holds said set of challenge parameters unchanged during a respective instance of the operation phase and, during each instance of the shake-up phase, selects and alters the value of one or more challenge parameters of said set; performance monitoring means for monitoring, during each of a series of time intervals, the performance of said task by said at least one module and evaluating the extent to which the performance satisfies criteria defined by the set of challenge parameters generated by said controller; and a learning module for adapting the mapping function applied by said at least one module, based on the performance monitored by the performance monitoring means, to control the at least one component to match the monitored performance of said at least one module to said criteria defined by said set of challenge parameters, and wherein, during the shake-up phase, the controller selects said set of one or more challenge parameters for change based on monitored performance data (M) for said plurality of self-developing modules and for the apparatus as a whole. 14. The self-developing artificial device according to claim 13, wherein, in use, when a first one of said self-developing modules is unable successfully to implement its mapping function said first self-developing module can generate a failure signal in respect of a second one of said self-developing modules whose output serves as an input to said first self-developing module. 15. A system comprising a plurality of agents, each agent being the autonomous self-developing artificial apparatus according to claim 13, wherein, in use, when a first one of said self-developing apparatuses is unable successfully to process an output produced by a second one of said of self-developing apparatuses, said first self-developing apparatus can generate a failure signal in respect of a component of said second self-developing apparatus. 16. A method of self-regulating development of an artificial system comprising at least one self-developing artificial device by driving said device to achieve a performance level which matches a changeable level of challenge set by the device itself in which said device has a mapping mechanism which applies a mapping function to a set of one or more inputs in order to produce one or more outputs, the method comprising: generating a set of one or more challenge parameters defining criteria to be satisfied by said self-developing device when performing a task, said generating including an operation phase and a shake-up phase, said set of challenge parameters being held unchanged during each instance of the operation phase, and during each instance of the shake-up phase there are provided the steps of selecting and altering the value of one or more challenge parameters of said set; during each of a series of time intervals, monitoring the performance of said task by said self-developing device and evaluating the extent to which the performance satisfies the criteria defined by said set of challenge parameters; and adapting the mapping function applied by said self-developing device, based on the performance monitored by the performance monitoring means, to control the self-developing device to match the performance of said self-developing device to said criteria defined by said set of challenge parameters. 17. The method according to claim 16 of self-regulating development of the self-developing device, the method further comprising: generating a failure signal in respect of a component when there is a difference, greater than a threshold amount, between the actual performance of said self-developing device and a performance level indicated by the set of challenge parameters, and implementing a set of one or more repairs, if available, selected in a list of candidate repairs, on the self-developing device in response to the generation of a failure signal. 18. The method according to claim 17 of self-regulating development of the self-developing device, the method further comprising: implementing a single repair in response to the generation of a respective failure signal. 19. The method according to claim 17, of self-regulating development of the self-developing device, said method further comprising: filtering out from the list of candidate repairs any repairs which have previously been tried unsuccessfully for said self-developing device. 20. The method according to claim 17, of self-regulating development of the self-developing device, said method further comprising: attempting to re-apply the mapping function to the same set of inputs as that which provoked generation of the failure signal motivating the repair(s). 21. The method according to claim 16, of self-regulating development of the self-developing device, wherein each challenge parameter is defined to take values within a range of 0.0 to 1.0, with 1.0 representing the greatest level of complexity. 22. The method according to claim 21, of self-regulating development of the self-developing device wherein at start-up of device development the values set for the challenge parameters are at a low end of their respective ranges. 23. The method according to claim 16, of self-regulating development of the self-developing device, wherein the generating changes over from the operation phase to the shake-up phase when it is determined that the change in performance levels of said self-developing device from one time interval to the next is less than a threshold amount. 24. The method according to claim 16, of self-regulating development of the self-developing device, further comprising: defining a set of one or more skill variables (<s.sub.1, s.sub.2, . . . , s.sub.r>) for the self-developing device, the value of each skill variable(s) quantifying a respective capability of, or resource used by, the device, wherein the generating changes over from functioning in the operation phase to functioning in the shake-up phase when it is determined that the changes in performance levels and skill levels of said self-developing device from one time interval to the next are less than respective threshold amounts. 25. The method according to claim 16, of self-regulating development of the self-developing device wherein during each instance of the shake-up phase a single challenge parameter, or a small number of challenge parameters, is selected and has the value thereof changed. 26. A method of self-regulating development of a self-developing artificial apparatus including a plurality of self-developing modules (c.sub.i), wherein each module has a mapping mechanism which applies a mapping function to a set of one or more inputs to produce one or more outputs, the method comprising: generating a set of one or more challenge parameters defining criteria to be satisfied by at least one of said self-developing devices when performing a task, said generating including an operation phase and a shake-up phase, said set of challenge parameters being held unchanged during each instance of the operation phase, and during each instance of the shake-up phase there are provided the steps of selecting and altering the value of one or more challenge parameters of said set; during each of a series of time intervals, monitoring the performance of said task by said self-developing device and evaluating the extent to which the performance satisfies criteria defined by said set of challenge parameters; and adapting the mapping function applied by said at least one self-developing device, based on the performance monitored by the performance monitoring means, to control the self-developing device to match the performance of said self-developing device to said criteria defined by said set of challenge parameters, wherein during the shake-up phase, said set of one or more challenge parameters is selected for change based on monitored performance data (M) for said plurality of self-developing components and for the system as a whole. 27. The method according to claim 26 of self-regulating development of the self-developing artificial apparatus comprising a plurality of self-developing modules (c.sub.i), wherein, when a first one of said self-developing modules is unable successfully to implement its mapping function said first self-developing module can generate a failure signal in respect of a second one of said self-developing modules whose output serves as an input to said first self-developing module. 