An apparatus and method for simultaneously coating and measuring a part including a part support, a sprayer, a part measurer including a digital camera and a display device, all of which are positioned adjacent to the part support. The sprayer applies a coating to a section of the part while the part measurer continuously measures at least two dimensions of the section. The digital camera takes at least one picture of the entire section of the part while the part is being coated and enables a user to accurately determine the cross section of the part to the optimum finished part configuration and size and also detect defects, blemishes or coating irregularities formed on the section. The apparatus and method of the present invention significantly reduces the margin of error related to the application of coatings to parts, the number of defective parts and increases the overall efficiency.
Claims The invention is claimed as follows: 1. A method for applying a coating to a section of a part, said method comprising: (a) placing the part on a part support; (b) initially measuring at least one first dimension of the section of the part to be coated along a first plane using a laser generator and laser receiver; (c) initially measuring at least one second different dimension of the section of the part along a second different plane using a digital camera; (d) calculating an initial amount of coating to be applied to the section of the part based on said initial measurement of said first dimension, said initial measurement of said second dimension, and a desired final dimension of the section of the part; (e) applying the initial amount of coating to the part while; (i) continuing to measure the first dimension of the section of the part being coated using said laser generator and laser receiver, and (ii) continuing to measure the second dimension of the section of the part being coated using said digital camera; (f) calculating a final amount of coating to be applied to the section of the part based on said continued measurements of said first dimension, said continued measurement of said second dimension, and the desired final dimension of the section of the part; (g) applying the final amount of coating to the section of the part while; (i) continuing to measure the first dimension of the section of the part being coated using the laser generator and laser receiver, and (ii) continuing to measure the second dimension of the section of the part being coated using said digital camera; and (h) removing the part from the part support. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring the part includes taking sequential digital pictures of the part. 3. The method of claim 1, which includes taking digital pictures of the section of the part using a plurality of digital cameras, and which includes taking at least two different digital pictures of the section of the part being coated using the digital cameras. 4. The method of claim 1, which includes taking digital pictures of the section of the part using a plurality of digital cameras, and which includes taking at least one digital picture of each of said first plane and said second different planes of the part being coated using the digital cameras. 5. The method of claim 1, which includes prompting a user if a defect or irregularity is detected on the part being coated. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring the section of the part includes projecting at least a portion of a laser beam from the laser generator on opposing sides of the section of the part being coated. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring the section of the part includes horizontally projecting a laser beam from the laser generator at a level of the section of the part being coated. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring the section of the part includes projecting a laser beam from the laser generator along one of said first plane and said second different planes of the section of the part being coated. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring the section of the part includes projecting a laser beam from the laser generator along one of said first plane and said second different planes of the section of the part being coated and wherein the dimension of the laser beam is greater than a diameter of the section of the part being coated. 10. The method of claim 1, which includes displaying the measurements of the section of the part on a display device. 11. The method of claim 1, which includes prompting a user if at least one of the measurements of the section of the part being coated is not within a predetermined range of acceptable dimensions for the part. 12. The method of claim 1, which includes communicating the measurements taken by the part measurer to a processor. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the coating includes a powder coating applied to the section of the part using at least one powder coating sprayer. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the coating to the section of the part includes electrostatically applying the coating to the section of the part. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the coating applied to the section of the part includes at least one of the coatings selected from the group consisting of: a liquid coating, a powder coating, a primer coating and a topcoat. 16. A method for applying a coating to a section of a part, said method comprising: (a) placing the part on a part support; (b) applying an amount of coating to the section of the part until a dimensional measurement of the section of the part taken by a part measurer including a laser generator, laser receiver and a digital camera is within a range of acceptable final dimensions for the section of the part, said amount of coating calculated before and while the part is being coated by: (i) measuring at least one first dimension of the section of the part along a first plane using the digital camera, (ii) measuring at least one second dimension of the section of the part along a second different plane using the laser generator and laser receiver, and (iii) comparing the first measured dimension and the second measured dimension to a desired final dimension of the section of the part; (c) comparing at least one digital picture taken by the digital camera with a desired final picture of the coated part; (d) detecting any defects on the surface of the part being coated while the part is being coated; (e) discarding the part if a defect is detected on the surface of the part; and (f) removing the part from the part support when the section of the coated part is within the range of acceptable final dimensions for the section of the part and no defects were detected on the part. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein comparing the digital picture to a desired final picture of the part includes comparing each pixel of the pictures. 18. The method of claim 16, which includes displaying the measurements of the section of the part on a display device. 19. The method of claim 16, which includes prompting a user if at least one of the measurements of the section of the part being coated is not within the range of acceptable dimensions for the section of the part. 20. The method of claim 16, which includes moving the digital camera to take at least one digital picture of the section of the part being coated. 21. A method for applying a coating to a section of a part, said method comprising: (a) placing the part on a part support; (b) initially measuring at least one first dimension of the section of the part to be coated along a first planes using laser generators and a laser receiver; (c) initially measuring at least one second dimension of the section of the part to be coated along a second different plane using a digital camera; (d) calculating an initial amount of coating to be applied to the section of the part based on said initial measurements of said first dimension, said initial measurement of said second dimension, and a desired final dimension of the section of the part; (e) applying the initial amount of coating to the part; (f) after the initial amount of coating is applied to the section of the part: (i) further measuring the first dimension of the section of the part being coated using the laser generator and the laser receiver, (ii) further measuring the second dimension of the section of the part being coated using the digital camera, and (iii) calculating a final amount of coating to be applied to the section of the part based on said further measurements of the first dimension, further measurement of the second dimension, and the desired final dimension of the section of the part; (g) applying the final amount of coating to the section of the part; and (h) removing the part from the part support. 22. The method of claim 21, which includes prompting a user if a defect or irregularity is detected on the part before being coated. 23. The method of claim 21, which includes displaying the measurements of the section of the part on a display device. 24. The method of claim 21, which includes prompting a user if at least one of the measurements of the section of the part being coated is not within a predetermined range of acceptable dimensions for the part. 25. The method of claim 21, wherein the coating includes a powder coating applied to the section of the part using at least one powder coating sprayer. 26. The method of claim 21, wherein applying the coating to the section of the part includes electrostatically applying the coating to the section of the part. 27. The method of claim 21, wherein the coating applied to the section of the part includes at least one of the coatings selected from the group consisting of: a liquid coating, a powder coating, a primer coating and a topcoat. 