An optical assembly includes a light path and at least one optic to be positioned in the path. A support arrangement supports the optic having a foot arrangement including at least one foot that receives a direct manipulation with the foot slidingly engaged against a support surface to move the optic relative to the light path. Movement of the foot may move the optic along a predetermined path. The foot defines a footprint for engaging the support surface and receives the direct manipulation in a way which changes the footprint on the support surface to move the optic responsive to changes in the footprint. A movement arrangement may selectively bias the foot against the support surface during a movement mode, intended to permit movement of the foot against the support surface, and in a locked mode, intended to lock the foot against the support surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In an optical assembly including a light path and at least one optical component to be positioned in said light path and further including one or more support surfaces, a support arrangement comprising: support means for supporting said optical component and having a foot arrangement including at least one foot defining a footprint for engaging one of the support surfaces, said foot being configured for receiving a direct manipulation in a way which changes the footprint on the support surface such that the optical component moves relative to said light path responsive to changes in said footprint and said foot includes at least one engagement position which is configured for receiving said direct manipulation such that a distance change between the engagement position and a selected point on the foot changes said footprint and said support means includes a support configuration that directly supports the optical component and which support configuration is hingedly attached to said foot using a pair of hinging positions such that the support configuration moves the optical component responsive to movement at the hinging positions with changes in said footprint and said hinging positions are arranged to at least generally pivot about at least the selected point responsive to movement of said engagement position relative to the selected point. 2. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein said foot distorts responsive to direct manipulation thereof to change said footprint. 3. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein said foot includes at least first and second engagement positions at least one of which is configured for receiving said direct manipulation where the aforementioned engagement position serves as the first engagement position and the aforementioned selected point is coincident with the second engagement position such that a distance change between the engagement positions changes said footprint which, in turn, produces movement of the optical component. 4. The support arrangement of claim 3 wherein said support means is configured for moving the optical component by an amount that is less than said distance change between the engagement positions. 5. The support arrangement of claim 3 wherein said foot is configured for initially fixedly attaching said first engagement position to said support surface and, thereafter, for moving the second engagement position relative to the first engagement position slidingly against the support surface. 6. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein said selected point is coincident with an additional engagement position that at least initially receives said direct manipulation. 7. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein said foot is attachable to said support surface at one or more attachment points in a way which defines the selected point. 8. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein a line is defined extending through said selected point and said engagement position and one of said hinging positions is on an opposite side of said line with respect to the other one of said hinging positions. 9. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein said foot includes a first stiffness configuration between the selected point and the pair of hinging positions, thereby providing a first stiffness value, and a second stiffness configuration between the engagement position and the pair of hinging positions, thereby providing a second stiffness value, such that that the hinging positions move, at least in part, responsive to a ratio between the second stiffness value and the first stiffness value to, in turn, hingedly move the support configuration and thereby move the optical component. 10. The support arrangement of claim 9 wherein said pair of hinging positions, said first stiffness configuration and said second stiffness configuration are arranged symmetrically on either side of a line defined between the selected point and the engagement position, with the foot in a relaxed state. 11. The support arrangement of claim 10 wherein said foot is configured such that movement of the engagement position directly towards and away from the selected point moves said optical component having a projected component of movement in a direction that is at least generally parallel to said line. 12. The support arrangement of claim 9 wherein said first stiffness configuration includes a first pair of beam members having inward ends which are held at least generally fixed with respect to said selected point and outward ends that are arranged to move at least generally with the hinging positions such that a first length of each one of the first pair of beams, extending from its inward end to its outward end, provides said first stiffness value. 13. The support arrangement of claim 12 wherein said second stiffness configuration includes a second pair of beam members having inner ends which are arranged to move with movement of the engagement position and outer ends which are arranged to move at least generally with each of the hinging positions such that a second length of each one of second pair of beams, extending from its inner end to its outer end, provides said second stiffness value. 14. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein, with said foot in a relaxed state, a first line defined between the selected point and the engagement position is at least generally orthogonal to a second line defined between each of the pair of hinges. 15. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein each one of said pair of hinging positions is arranged at least generally symmetrically to either side of a line defined between the selected point and the engagement position. 16. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein said foot includes at least one additional engagement position that is configured to receive an additional direct manipulation to move the additional engagement position relative to the selected point such that changing an additional distance between the additional engagement position and the selected point changes said footprint which, in turn, produces an additional movement of the optical component. 17. The support arrangement of claim 16 wherein movement of said engagement position relative to the selected point presents a first stiffness ratio for use in moving the optical component and moving the additional engagement position relative to the selected point presents an additional, different stiffness ratio for use in moving the optical component. 18. The support arrangement of claim 17 wherein said additional stiffness ratio is less than said first stiffness ratio. 19. The support arrangement of claim 18 wherein said foot includes further additional engagement positions, each of which is configured for direct manipulation to move the further additional engagement positions relative to the selected point such that each further additional engagement position provides for moving the optical component with a progressively lower stiffness. 20. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein said foot is configured for moving slidingly against the support surface with the direct manipulation of the foot to move the optical component relative to said light path. 21. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein the aforementioned engagement position serves as a first engagement position and the aforementioned selected point is coincident with a second engagement position and said first and second engagement positions are arranged for use in a coarse adjustment mode during which the foot slidingly moves in a relaxed state against the engaged one of the support surfaces to coarsely position the optical component relative to the light path, said foot further being configured for (i) fixed attachment to the support surface at least proximate to the first engagement position, and (ii) subsequent movement of the second engagement position in a fine-adjustment mode by moving the second engagement position relative to the first engagement position responsive to said direct manipulation to change said footprint to finely position the optical component. 22. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein the support surface against which the foot moves is at least generally planar and said foot includes an at least generally planar footprint surface for engaging said support surface. 23. The arrangement of claim 22 wherein the footprint surface engages the support surface with a coefficient of friction and said foot is configured for manipulation of the foot surface against the support surface in a way which uses said coefficient of friction to resist undesired lateral movement of the foot against the support surface at least during attachment of the foot thereto. 24. The support arrangement of claim 23 wherein said foot is configured for being lap welded to the support surface. 25. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein said support means is configured for moving the optical component along a predetermined path with selected direct movement of said foot. 26. The support arrangement of claim 25 wherein said foot arrangement includes two feet, each of which is moveable against at least one of said support surfaces, such that selected movement of the feet relative to one another causes the optical component to move along the predetermined path. 27. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein said support means is configured for moving said optical component, due to a change in distance between said feet, by an amount that is less than the change in distance between the feet. 28. The support arrangement of claim 26 wherein a first one of said feet moves against a first one of said support surfaces and a second one of said feet moves against a second one of said support surfaces. 29. In an optical assembly including a light path and at least one optical component to be positioned in said light path and further including one or more support surfaces, a support arrangement comprising: support means for supporting said optical component and having a foot arrangement including a first foot defining a footprint for engaging and moving against a first one of the support surfaces and a second foot for engaging and moving against a second one of the support surfaces, said first foot being configured for receiving a direct manipulation in a way which changes the footprint on the first support surface such that the optical component moves relative to said light path responsive to changes in said footprint and for moving the optical component along a predetermined path with selected direct movement of said first foot and selected movement of the feet relative to one another causes the optical component to move along the predetermined path and said support means includes first and second web members that are hinged to one another and each of which is hinged to one of said feet such that the first and second web members extend between the feet for hinged movement with movement of the feet relative to one another and said optical component is attached to one of the first and second web members for moving along said predetermined path with said hinged movement. 30. The support arrangement of claim 29 wherein each of said feet and said first and second web members are formed from sheet material having a thickness and sized to a width, which is greater than said thickness, and hinged to one another across said width. 31. The support arrangement of claim 30 wherein said feet and said first and second web members are integrally formed from said sheet material. 32. The support arrangement of claim 26 wherein said support means includes first and second web members having opposing ends and each of which first and second web members is hinged at one end to a support member to extend the support member between the web members and each of which first and second web members is hinged at another end to one of said feet such that each of the first and second web members is hinged between one of the feet and said support member thereby providing hinged movement of the support member with movement of the feet relative to one another and said optical component is attached to said support member for moving along said predetermined path with said hinged movement. 33. The support arrangement of claim 26 wherein said support means includes a support member having first and second opposing ends that are hinged to first and second ones of said feet, respectively, to extend between the feet in a curved configuration and said optical component is attached to a mid-section of said support member such that movement of the feet along a linear path defined between the feet causes said first and second opposing ends of the support member to move in hinged engagement with the first and second feet while at least the mid-section of the support member bends to move the optical component along said predetermined path. 34. The support arrangement of claim 33 wherein said predetermined path is generally normal to said support surface with equal movements of each of said feet towards and away from one another. 35. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein said support means is configured for moving the optical component along a predetermined path with selected direct movement of said foot and said predetermined path is arcuate in shape. 36. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein said support means is configured for moving the optical component along a predetermined path with selected direct movement of said foot and said predetermined path at least generally defines a plane that is transverse to said light path. 37. The support arrangement of claim 1 wherein said foot is at least generally plate-like in configuration and includes (i) a lower surface defining said footprint for at least initially engaging the support surface, (ii) an upper surface spaced-apart from the lower surface such that the foot includes a first thickness therebetween, (iii) and at least one weld region having a second thickness which is less than said first thickness for use in welding the foot to said support surface. 38. The support arrangement of claim 37 wherein said lower surface extends across said weld region and said weld region includes a stepped periphery formed in said upper surface to define a weldable surface which is spaced from said lower surface by said second thickness. 39. In an optical assembly including a light path and at least one optical component to be positioned in said light path and further including one or more support surfaces, a method comprising the steps of: configuring support means for supporting said optical component and having a foot arrangement including at least one foot defining a footprint for engaging one of the support surfaces and forming said foot to include at least one engagement position for receiving a direct manipulation; and arranging said foot to receive the direct manipulation in a way which changes the footprint on the support surface such that the optical component moves relative to said light path responsive to changes in said footprint and a distance change between the engagement position and a selected point on the foot changes said footprint; and arranging a support configuration as part of the support means to directly support the optical component while hingedly attaching the support configuration to said foot using a pair of hinging positions such that the support configuration moves the optical component responsive to movement at the hinging positions with changes in said footprint and placing said hinging positions to at least generally pivot about the selected point responsive to movement of said engagement position relative to the selected point. 40. The method of claim 39 wherein said foot distorts responsive to the direct manipulation thereof to change said footprint. 41. The method of claim 39 wherein said foot is configured to include at least first and second engagement positions where the first engagement position serves as the aforementioned engagement position and the second engagement position serves as the aforementioned selected point and at least the first engagement position is configured for receiving said direct manipulation such that a distance change between the engagement positions changes said footprint which, in turn, produces movement of the optical component. 42. The method of claim 41 wherein said support means is configured for moving the optical component by an amount that is less than said distance change between the engagement positions. 43. The method of claim 41 wherein the step of configuring said foot includes the step of forming the foot for initially fixedly attaching said first engagement position to said support surface and, thereafter, for moving the second engagement position relative to the first engagement position slidingly against the support surface. 44. The method of claim 39 including the step of providing an additional engagement position for at least initially receiving the direct manipulation such that the selected point is coincident with the additional engagement position. 45. The method of claim 39 including the step of attaching said foot to said support surface at one or more attachment points in a way which defines the selected point. 46. The method of claim 39 wherein a line is defined extending through said selected point and said engagement position and including the step of positioning one of said hinges on an opposite side of said line with respect to the other one of said hinges. 47. The method of claim 39 wherein said step of configuring said support means includes the steps of arranging, as part of said foot, a first stiffness configuration between the selected point and the pair of hinging positions, thereby providing a first stiffness value, and arranging, further as part of said foot, a second stiffness configuration between the engagement position and the pair of hinging positions, thereby providing a second stiffness value, such that that the hinging positions move, at least in part, responsive to a ratio between the second stiffness value and the first stiffness value to, in turn, hingedly move the support configuration and thereby the optical component. 48. The method of claim 47 including the step of symmetrically arranging said pair of hinging positions, said first stiffness configuration and said second stiffness configuration on either side of a line defined between the selected point and the engagement position, with the foot in a relaxed state. 49. The method of claim 48 wherein said foot is configured for movement of the engagement position directly towards and away from the selected point to move said optical component having a projected component of movement in a direction that is at least generally parallel to said line. 50. The method of claim 47 including the step of arranging said first stiffness configuration to include a first pair of beam members having inward ends which are held at least generally fixed with respect to said selected point and outward ends that are arranged to move at least generally with the hinging positions such that a first length of each one of the first pair of beams, extending from its inward end to its outward end, provides said first stiffness value. 51. The method of claim 50 including the step of forming said second stiffness configuration to include a second pair of beam members having inner ends which are arranged to move with movement of the engagement position and outer ends which are arranged to move at least generally with each of the hinging positions such that a second length of each one of second pair of beams, extending from its inner end to its outer end, provides said second stiffness value. 52. The method of claim 39 wherein the step of configuring said support means includes the step of defining a first line between the engagement position and the selected point that is at least generally orthogonal to a second line defined between the hinging positions. 53. The method of claim 52 wherein the step of configuring the support arrangement orients said predetermined path generally normal to said support surface. 54. The method of claim 39 including the step of forming said foot to include at least one additional engagement position that is configured to receive an additional direct manipulation to move the additional engagement position relative to the selected point such that changing an additional distance between the additional engagement position and the selected point, changes said footprint which, in turn, produces an additional movement of the optical component. 55. The method of claim 54 including the steps of moving said engagement position relative to the selected point to present a first stiffness ratio for use in moving the optical component and, thereafter, moving the additional engagement position relative to the selected point to present an additional, different stiffness ratio for use in moving the optical component. 56. The method of claim 55 wherein said foot is configured such that the additional stiffness ratio is less than said first stiffness ratio. 57. The method of claim 56 including the step of further configuring said foot to include further additional engagement positions, each of which is configured for direct manipulation to move the further additional engagement positions relative to the selected point such that each further additional engagement position provides for moving the optical component with a progressively lower stiffness ratio. 58. The method of claim 39 including the step of at least initially moving said foot as a unit slidingly against the support surface with the direct manipulation of the foot to move the optical component relative to said light path. 59. The method of claim 39 wherein the aforementioned engagement position serves as a first engagement position and the aforementioned selected point is coincident with a second engagement position and including the step of arranging said first and second engagement positions for use in a coarse adjustment mode during which the foot slidingly moves in a relaxed state against one of the support surfaces to coarsely position the optical component relative to the light path, and further arranging the foot for (i) fixed attachment to the support surface at least proximate to the first engagement position, and (ii) subsequent movement of the second engagement position in a fine-adjustment mode by moving the second engagement position relative to the first engagement position responsive to said direct manipulation to change said footprint to finely position the optical component. 60. The method of claim 39 wherein the support surface against which the foot moves is at least generally planar and said foot is configured to include an at least generally planar footprint surface for engaging said support surface. 61. The method of claim 60 wherein the footprint surface engages the support surface with a coefficient of friction and said foot is configured for manipulation of the foot surface against the support surface in a way which uses said coefficient of friction to resist undesired lateral movement of the foot against the support surface at least during attachment of the foot thereto. 62. The method of claim 39 wherein said support means is configured for moving the optical component along a predetermined path with selected direct movement of said foot. 63. The method of claim 62 wherein said foot arrangement includes two feet, each of which is moveable against at least one of said support surfaces, such that selected movement of the feet relative to one another causes the optical component to move along the predetermined path. 