A control system for controlling processing of workpieces such as jewelry has gantry and gimbal units having x, y, z translational and x, y, z rotational degrees of freedom, the units carrying a gripper for holding a piece of jewelry. Drive motors are associated with each translational and rotational degree of freedom and an actuator operates the gripper. A controller is linked to the gantry and gimbal unit motors, the gripper unit actuator, and actuators associated with a series of work stations for carrying out processing operations such as lapping and grinding. The controller controls movement of the gripper unit from a start position to pick up a workpiece and move it along a programmed path between the processing stations, and controls operation of actuators at each processing station to process workpieces according to stored program instructions. A user input device provides optional operator control of the movement and processing for system training purposes.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A control system for controlling operation of a processing machine for processing a workpiece, wherein the processing machine has a gantry unit having x, y and z translational degrees of freedom, a gimbal unit mounted on the gantry unit and having x, y and z rotational degrees of freedom, a main gripper unit mounted on the gimbal unit for holding a workpiece during processing, and a plurality of spaced workstations for manipulating or processing the workpiece, the control system comprising: a controller programmed with a plurality of program modules for controlling different operations of the processing machine; means for setting up at least one desired trajectory of a workpiece from a storage tray through a selected series of end positions at workstations, the trajectory being associated with a selected workpiece style; means for setting up a series of parameters for processing each style of workpiece, the parameters comprising grinding force parameters and motor speeds; means for setting up a series of workpiece locations on the storage tray; means for controlling gantry and gimbal motors to move the main gripper unit to a first position over a workpiece on the storage tray; means for controlling the gantry motors and main gripper unit to move to the workpiece, grip the workpiece, and move the workpiece from the tray; means for controlling the gantry and gimbal motors to move the workpiece along the desired trajectory and stop at each end position; means for controlling the tool at the workstation and the gantry and gimbal motors to carry out a processing operation at the workstation before continuing to move the workpiece along the desired trajectory to the next workstation; means for moving the workpiece to an end position after the workpiece has been processed at the last workstation in the series; means for controlling the main gripper unit to release the workpiece; and means for controlling the gantry, gimbal and main gripper units to move to the next workpiece position on the tray and to pick up the next workpiece to be processed according to the instructions associated with the style stored for that workpiece. 2. The control system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of program modules comprises a manual module further comprising means for user entry and storing of machine parameters, the parameters comprising at least grinding force for use at grinding stations in the machine, polishing force for use at polishing stations, and motor speeds. 3. The control system of claim 2, wherein the manual module further comprises an on-off commands block for user control of operation of the main gripper unit for carrying a piece between the workstations and operation of a flip gripper unit for allowing the grip position of a piece in the main gripper unit to be changed. 4. The control system of claim 2, wherein the manual module further comprises a movement commands block for user entry of commands for moving the gantry and gimbal units of the processing machine to a start position, moving the main gripper unit on the gimbal unit to a pick position above the tray, initiating at least two different grinding procedures, moving the gantry and gimbal units to a flip/regrip station, and initiating a lapping procedure. 5. The control system of claim 1, wherein one of said modules further comprises tray set up means for user entry of the style and size of each workpiece to be processed and the position of each workpiece on a storage tray. 6. The control system of claim 5, wherein the tray set up means further comprises means for copying a style and size previously entered to additional positions on the storage tray. 7. The control system of claim 6, wherein the tray set up means further comprises means for entering an empty designation for a tray location carrying no workpiece. 8. The control system of claim 1, wherein the workpieces to he processed are rings and one of said modules further comprises lapping means for controlling a lapping procedure, the lapping means comprising means for controlling the main gripper unit of the machine to hold a ring in a vertical orientation to present a first side face of the ring for lapping, means for controlling the gantry motors of the machine to drive the gripper unit and ring to a lapping wheel, means for controlling the drive of the lapping wheel to perform a lapping operation in which spine is removed from the first side face of the ring, means for detecting when all sprue is removed from the first side face, means for flipping the ring by 180 degrees to be gripped in an opposite vertical orientation to present a second side face of die ring to the lapping wheel, means for moving the gripper unit and ring up to the lapping wheel, and means for controlling the lapping wheel to perform a second lapping operation in which sprue is removed from the second side face of the ring. 9. The control system of claim 8, wherein the lapping means includes means for ensuring that fingers of the main gripper unit are level with the outer side face of the vertically oriented ring in the lapping process. 10. The control system of claim 8 wherein the lapping means further comprises means for driving the gantry and gimbal units of the machine to move the main gripper unit on the gimbal unit carrying a jewelry piece from a start position to a flip station, means for positioning the ring within reach of a flip gripper and actuating the gripper to grip the ring, means for actuating the main gripper unit to release the ring, means for driving the gantry to move the main gripper unit away from the flip gripper, means for controlling the flip gripper unit motor to re-position the ring in a vertical orientation, means for controlling the gantry and gimbal units to move the main gripper unit back to the flip gripper in a horizontal orientation to grip the vertically oriented ring, means for controlling the flip gripper to release the ring, and means for controlling the gantry unit to move the main gripper unit and ring back to the start position. 11. The control system of claim 1, wherein the controller further comprises means for controlling removal of material from a workpiece in a processing machine having at least one work station comprising a material removal tool, means for continuously calculating the average total material removal in a processing sequence for a series of workpieces and means for displaying the average total material removed as a current working parameter on the output monitor. 12. The control system of claim 1, further comprising motion control software having software drivers for controlling movement of a workpiece in the machine from a start position to a series of work stations. 13. The control system of claim 12, further comprising a graphical user interface for allowing a user to control movement of a workpiece, the manual module comprising part of said graphical user interface 14. The control system of claim 12, wherein the program modules further comprise a training module having a user input device for allowing a user to train the system with a series of desired workpiece paths, the input device, the training module defining a training mode in which the user input device controls movement of the workpiece. 15. The control system of claim 1, wherein the controller further comprises hardware input and output cards for connection to the hardware components of the processing machine, software drivers connected to the input and output cards for controlling operation of the drive components of the processing machine, an OPC server connected to the software drivers for providing two way communications between the software drivers and other program modules, and an OPC client connected between the OPC server and program modules. 16. The control system of claim 1, further comprising: an output monitor connected to the computer for displaying data and application windows associated with each machine procedure; and a joystick input device connected to a computer for use by an operator in training the system; the program modules comprising a monitoring module for monitoring the processing and displaying data on the output monitor, a manual module for manual control of motor movements, set up of parameters, and training of the system, and an auto module for controlling an automatic production process based on instructions stored during a training procedure. 17. The control system of claim 16, wherein the training portion of the manual module comprises means for training the gantry unit and gimbal unit to move the gripper unit along a selected path with selected end points at successive processing stations in the machine and means for storing the trained path and end points in the data base, the means for training the gantry unit comprises means for associating right and left movements of the joystick input device with operation of a gantry x-axis motor to move a gantry x-axis carriage in corresponding directions, means for associating up and down movements of the joystick input device with operation of a gantry y-axis motor to move a gantry y axis carriage in opposite directions, and means for associating actuation of respective buttons on the joystick with operation of a gantry z-axis motor to move a gantry z-axis carriage in opposite directions, and the means for training the gimbal unit comprises means for associating right and left movements of the joystick with operation of a first gimbal motor to rotate in opposite directions, means for associating up and down movements of the joystick with operation of a second gimbal motor to rotate in opposite directions, and means for associating actuation of respective buttons on the joystick with operation of a third gimbal motor to rotate in opposite directions. 