A method for monitoring the activity of a tape drive system having one or more electro-mechanical components that receive electrical current from a power supply. The method includes sampling an actual current supplied to an electro-mechanical component of a tape drive system from a power supply during an activity; reading a theoretical current for said activity from a memory; calculating a statistical value for said actual current and said theoretical current; comparing said statistical value to at least one threshold value; and outputting information to at least one of a user, another system, and another process based on said comparison of said statistical value to said at least one threshold value.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for monitoring an activity of a tape drive system having one or more electro-mechanical components, said electro-mechanical components receiving electrical current from a power supply, the method comprising: sampling an actual current supplied to said electro-mechanical component of said tape drive system from said power supply during said activity; reading a theoretical current for said activity from a memory; calculating a statistical value for said actual current and said theoretical current; comparing said statistical value to at least one threshold value; and outputting information to at least one of a user, another system, and another process based on said comparison of said statistical value to said at least one threshold value. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing said statistical value to a first threshold value; and outputting a diagnostic message that said activity occurred correctly when said statistical value passes said first threshold value. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: comparing said statistical value to a second threshold value; and outputting a diagnostic message that said activity is degraded when said statistical value fails said first threshold value but passes said second threshold value. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: shutting down said electro-mechanical component when said statistical value fails said second threshold value; and outputting a diagnostic message that said activity failed when said statistical value fails said second threshold value. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said statistical value is at least one of a mean, a variance, and a correlation. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the theoretical current varies with time based on an amount of tape on a reel. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the electromechanical component is a motor of the tape drive, wherein the actual current is sampled at the motor of the tape drive. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the electromechanical component is a motor of the tape drive, wherein the actual current is sampled at a power supply of the tape drive. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the electromechanical component is a tape threader of the tape drive. 10. A method for monitoring activity of a tape-based storage system having a plurality of tape drives and a robotic picker, the method comprising: sampling an actual current supplied from a power supply to at least one of a robotic picker and electro-mechanical components of a plurality of the tape drives during an activity; determining a theoretical current for said activity; calculating a statistical value for said actual current and said theoretical current; comparing said statistical value to at least one threshold value; and outputting information to at least one of a user, another system, and another process based on said comparison of said statistical value to said at least one threshold value. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising sampling an actual current supplied to said robotic picker and said electro-mechanical components of the plurality of tape drives, wherein the theoretical current includes theoretical currents used by the components of the plurality of tape drives and the picker, wherein the statistical value is calculated for said actual currents and said theoretical current. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the theoretical current varies with time based on operations being performed by the tape drives. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the theoretical current is retrieved from memory. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the theoretical current is calculated in real time. 