A cleaning appliance includes a housing with a brushroll and a wheel mounted thereto. A floor-type sensor is disposed within a mounting tube secured to the housing. The floor-type sensor emits sonic energy toward a surface being traversed by the cleaning appliance and receives corresponding sonic energy reflected by the surface. A comparator, electrically coupled to the floor-type sensor, compares the received reflected sonic energy to one or more associated predetermined values to determine the type of surface being traversed. A processor analyzes the results of the comparison and controls at least one of a suction fan, said wheel and said brushroll, based at least in part on the analysis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cleaning appliance, including: a housing to which is mounted a brushroll and a wheel; a mounting tube secured to said housing; a floor type sensor, disposed within said mounting tube, for emitting sonic energy toward a surface being traversed by the cleaning appliance and receiving corresponding sonic energy reflected by the surface; a comparator, electrically coupled to said sensor, for comparing the received reflected sonic energy to one or more associated predetermined values to determine the type of surface being traversed; and a processor that analyzes the results of the comparison and controls at least one of a suction fan, said wheel and said brushroll, based at least in part on the analysis. 2. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 1, wherein the sonic energy is used to determine at least one of a signal amplitude and an echo width, wherein the at least one of the signal amplitude and the echo width is compared by the comparator with the one or more associated predetermined values, and the processor analyzes the results of the comparison and controls at least one of said suction fan, said wheel and said brushroll based at least in part on the analysis. 3. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 1, said mounting tube including: a first end portion that faces the surface being traversed; an opening of said first end portion that allows an ingress and an egress of sonic energy; and a second end portion, disposed opposite the first end portion, wherein said floor type sensor is operatively coupled proximate to said second end portion. 4. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 3, said floor type sensor including: an emitter that emits sonic energy that traverses from said second end portion to said first end portion and out of an opening in said first end portion to the surface being traversed by the cleaning appliance, and a detector that receives sonic energy reflected from the surface that re-enters said opening and traverses from said first end portion to said second end portion, wherein the received reflected sonic energy is conveyed to said comparator. 5. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 1, wherein said floor type sensor includes an emitter component and a detector component. 6. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 1, wherein said comparator obtains the associated predetermined values from an associated lookup table (LUT) that maps at least one of a signal amplitude and an echo width to a floor type. 7. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 1, further including: a signal generator circuit for generating a signal that invokes transmission of the sonic energy by said floor type sensor; and a signal conditioning circuit for conditioning the received reflected signal prior to the comparison by said comparator. 8. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 1, wherein said processor measures a time difference between transmission of the sonic energy from said floor type sensor and reception of the reflected sonic energy by said floor type sensor. 9. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 8, wherein said processor compares the measured time difference with values that map time differences to height in order to determine the height of said housing relative the surface being traversed. 10. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 1, further including an element that selectively removes power from one or more components of the cleaning appliance when a telephone rings. 11. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 10, wherein said element includes at least one of visual indicia and audio indicia that at least one of a) identifies said element and b) indicates whether said element is in an activated or deactivated stage. 12. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 10, wherein said element includes: a receiver, and a transmitter that transmits a signal to said receiver in response to a ringing telephone. 13. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 12, wherein the transmitter includes detection circuitry to detect when a telephone rings. 14. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 1, further including one or more visual indicators that visually indicate one or more of the following events: an audio-activated cleaning appliance shut-off device is activated; the audio-activated cleaning appliance shut-off device is deactivated; power has been removed from at least one component of the cleaning appliance in response to a ringing telephone; a cleaning job by the cleaning appliance has commenced in response to a ringing telephone; a cleaning job by the cleaning appliance has terminated in response to a ringing telephone; a cleaning job by the cleaning appliance has resumed in response to a ringing telephone; an associated telephone is ringing; and a brush motor over-current condition exists. 15. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 1, further including: a control element that receives a signal indicating an audio-activated cleaning appliance shut-off device is in one of an activated and a deactivated state; and at least one illuminating component that is illuminated by the control element in response to the control element receiving the signal. 16. A vacuum cleaner, comprising: a housing including: a suction opening located in a bottom wall of said housing; a brushroll mounted to said housing and located in said suction opening; a wheel mounted to said housing for supporting said housing on a subjacent surface; and a mounting tube secured to said housing, said mounting tube including: a first end, opening to said housing bottom wall; and a second end; a floor type sensor disposed adjacent to said mounting tube second end for emitting sonic energy toward the subjacent surface and receiving corresponding sonic energy reflected by the surface; a comparator, electrically coupled to said sensor, for comparing the received reflected sonic energy to one or more associated predetermined values to determine the type of surface being traversed; and a processor that analyzes the results of the comparison and controls at least one of a suction fan, said wheel and said brushroll, based at least in part on the analysis. 17. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 16, wherein the sonic energy is used to determine at least one of a signal amplitude and an echo width, wherein the at least one of the signal amplitude and the echo width is compared by the comparator with the one or more associated predetermined values, and the processor analyzes the results of the comparison and controls at least one of said suction fan, said wheel and said brushroll based at least in part on the analysis. 18. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 16, said floor type sensor includes an emitter component and a detector component. 19. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 16, further including: a signal generator circuit for generating a signal that invokes transmission of the sonic energy by said floor type sensor; and a signal conditioning circuit for conditioning the received reflected signal prior to the comparison by said comparator. 20. A vacuum cleaner, comprising: a floor nozzle including: a suction opening communicating with a suction source; a brushroll; a first motor for driving said brushroll; at least one wheel on which said floor nozzle is mounted to allow the floor nozzle to move in relation to a subjacent surface; a second motor for driving said at least one wheel; and a mounting tube including a first end, opening toward the subjacent surface, and a second end; a sonic sensor disposed adjacent to said mounting tube second end for emitting sonic energy toward the subjacent surface and receiving corresponding sonic energy reflected by the surface; a comparator, electrically coupled to said sensor, for comparing the received reflected sonic energy to one or more associated predetermined values to determine the type of surface being traversed; and a processor that analyzes the results of the comparison and controls at least one of said suction source, said first motor, and said second motor. 21. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 20, wherein the sonic energy is used to determine at least one of a signal amplitude and an echo width, wherein the at least one of the signal amplitude and the echo width is compared by the comparator with the one or more associated predetermined values, and the processor analyzes the results of the comparison and controls at least one of said suction source, said first motor and said second motor based at least in part on the analysis. 22. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 20, said floor type sensor includes and emitter component and a detector component. 23. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 20, further including: a signal generator circuit for generating a signal that invokes transmission of the sonic energy by said floor type sensor; and a signal conditioning circuit for conditioning the received reflected signal prior to the comparison by said comparator. 24. The cleaning appliance as set forth in claim 20, wherein a speed of at least one of said brushroll, said wheel, and said suction source is dynamically changed based on at least one of the type of surface and a characteristic of the surface being traversed. 