A dynamic workcell includes a three dimensional positioning robot positioned adjacent a plurality of operation stations. A plurality of movable part fixtures located adjacent to the robot is also provided. A fixture location controller directing positioning of the part fixtures relative to the plurality of operation stations to minimize travel between an operation station and a part fixture is provided. A method for operating a workcell may include the steps of: mapping ones of a plurality of testers to the plurality of movable part fixtures; maintaining the position of each movable part fixture; determining a current location of an active part fixture relative to a mapped tester; and minimizing the distance between the mapped tester and the active part fixture.
Claims We claim: 1. A dynamic workcell for performing one or more operations on a plurality of parts, comprising: a three dimensional positioning robot positioned adjacent a plurality of operation stations; a plurality of movable part fixtures provided on a positioning mechanism located adjacent to the robot, the position mechanism comprising a carousel such that the part fixtures are positioned in a circular configuration surrounding the robot; and a fixture location controller coupled to the positioning mechanism and for each movement of a part, directing movement of the part fixtures relative to the plurality of operation stations to minimize a distance traveled by the part carried by the positioning robot between an operation station and a part fixture. 2. The workcell of claim 1 wherein the operation stations are disk testing stations including a spindle. 3. The workcell of claim 1 wherein the part fixtures includes at least one cassette positioned thereon. 4. The workcell of claim 3 wherein said at least one cassette is an input cassette and the controller moves the input cassette relative to the operation stations. 5. The workcell of claim 3 wherein said at least one cassette is an output cassette and the controller moves the output cassette relative to the operation stations. 6. The workoell of claim 1 wherein the part fixtures are movable in a clockwise and counter clockwise fashion about the robot. 7. The workcell of claim 1 wherein the robot is a SCARA robot. 8. The workcell of claim 1 wherein each fixture includes a disk carrier. 9. The workcell of claim 1 at least twenty carriers are provided on a rotational carousel. 10. A dynamic workcell performing one or more operations on a plurality of parts, comprising: a robot of movable part fixtures provided on a positionable turntable, the turntable comprising a carousel such that the part fixtures are positioned in a circular configuration surrounding the robot; a plurality of fixed operation stations located about the positioning turntable; the robot comprising a three dimensional positioning robot located adjacent to the plurality of movable part fixtures, the positioning robot transferring ones of the plurality of parts between the operation stations and the fixtures; and a fixture location controller coupled to the positioning turntable and, for each movement of a part, directing movement of the part fixtures in a first or second direction relative to the plurality of operation stations to minimize travel of the positioning robot moving the part between an operation station and a part fixture. 