An embodiment of the invention is directed to a platform for launching and/or capturing an unmanned air vehicle (UAV), particularly a small UAV. The launch/capture platform includes a frame, a floor attached to the frame that is capable of supporting the UAV, means for acquiring and tracking the UAV in flight, a connector and a connector controller, connecting the platform to an external support structure, providing a controllable, adaptive motion of the platform in response to approaching UAV position and attitude, means for launching the UAV from the platform and for capturing an in-flight UAV to the platform, and means for locking down the UAV between the capture and launch of the UAV. Another embodiment of the invention directed to a method for capturing a small, in-flight UAV involves providing a UAV capture platform, providing a UAV capturing means as an integrated component of the platform, providing means for determining in real-time the relative location of an engaging portion of the capturing means with respect to an approaching in-flight UAV, providing means for automatically maneuvering the engaging portion of the capturing means with respect to at least one of a position and an attitude of the approaching in-flight UAV, capturing the UAV, and securing the captured UAV to the capture platform.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A launch/capture platform for an unmanned air vehicle (UAV), comprising: a frame having a pair of arm members each extending transversely from a base member and each having a free end; a floor attached to the frame capable of supporting the UAV; means for acquiring and tracking the UAV; a connector cooperatively engaging the platform to an external support structure, and a connector controller, wherein the connector and associated controller provide controllable, adaptive (real-time) motion of the platform; means for launching and capturing the UAV from and to the platform, respectively; and means for locking-down the UAV between the capture condition and the launch condition. 2. The launch/capture platform of claim 1, wherein the external support structure comprises a robotic arm having a base at one end thereof to stabilize the robotic arm, further wherein the arm is connected at another end thereof to the connector, and an associated robotic arm controller. 3. The launch/capture platform of claim 2, wherein the robotic arm has up to six independent axes of controllable motion. 4. The launch/capture platform of claim 1, wherein the connector and controller provide a continuously variable tilt motion of the platform between a relative horizontal orientation and a relative vertical orientation. 5. The launch/capture platform of claim 1, wherein the means for acquiring and tracking the UAV includes a differential GPS system. 6. The launch/capture platform of claim 1, wherein the means for acquiring and tracking the UAV includes a sensor for determining a relative position between the platform and a capture means associated with the UAV. 7. The launch/capture platform of claim 6, wherein the means for capturing an in-flight UAV includes an arresting-wire portion, further wherein the sensor is adapted to determine a relative position between the arresting-wire portion and a capture means associated with the UAV. 8. The launch/capture platform of claim 6, wherein the sensor is located on the platform. 9. The launch/capture platform of claim 6, wherein the sensor is located remote to the platform. 10. The launch/capture platform of claim 1, wherein the means for acquiring and tracking the UAV includes at least two sensors for detecting an orientation indicia of the UAV. 11. The launch/capture platform of claim 10, wherein the at least two sensors are at least two television cameras. 12. The launch/capture platform of claim 10, wherein the at least two sensors are sensitive to IR illumination. 13. The launch/capture platform of claim 1, wherein the means for launching the UAV from the platform include a catapult system. 14. The launch/capture platform of claim 1, wherein the means for capturing an in-flight UAV includes at least two drag wheels including a drag control. 15. The launch/capture platform of claim 1, wherein the drag control includes a differential control for each of the drag wheels. 16. The launch/capture platform of claim 1, further comprising at least one sensor to detect at least one of a wind speed and a wind direction. 17. The launch/capture platform of claim 1, wherein the floor comprises a mesh structure. 18. The launch/capture platform of claim 1, wherein the floor comprises a hook and loop frictional surface. 19. The launch/capture platform of claim 1, wherein the floor comprises an electromagnet. 20. A launch/capture platform for an unmanned air vehicle (UAV), comprising: a frame having a pair of arm members each extending from a base member and each having a free end; a floor attached to the frame capable of supporting the UAV; a UAV acquisition and tracking sensor cooperatively engaged with the platform; an arresting wire system adapted to provide UAV launching and capturing support cooperatively engaged with the platform, including an arresting wire, a motor, a strain sensor and a plurality of drag controllers, wherein a variable portion of the arresting wire extends between the free ends of the arm members; a controllable connector cooperatively engaging the platform to an external support structure, having a range of motion controlled by a feedback signal supplied by the acquisition and tracking sensor; and a locking-down mechanism adapted to secure the UAV between the capture condition and the launch condition. 21. The launch/capture platform of claim 20, wherein the controllable connector has a continuously variable range of tilting motion between a relative horizontal orientation and a relative vertical orientation. 22. The launch/capture platform of claim 20, wherein the external support structure is a controllable robotic arm. 23. The launch/capture platform of claim 20, wherein the acquisition and tracking sensor comprises a differential GPS system. 24. The launch/capture platform of claim 20, wherein the acquisition and tracking sensor comprises a television camera. 25. The launch/capture platform of claim 24, wherein the acquisition and tracking sensor comprises at least two television cameras adapted for infrared viewing. 26. A method for capturing a small, in-flight UAV, comprising: providing a UAV capture platform; providing a UAV capturing means as an integrated component of the platform; providing means for determining in real-time the relative location of an engaging portion of the capturing means with respect to an approaching in-flight UAV; providing means for automatically maneuvering the engaging portion of the capturing means with respect to at least one of a position and an attitude of the approaching in-flight UAV; capturing the UAV; and securing the captured UAV to the capture platform. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein providing a UAV capture platform further comprises providing a common platform for launching and capturing the UAV. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein providing a UAV capturing means as an integrated component of the platform further comprises providing a UAV launching means as an integrated component of the platform. 29. The method of claim 28, further comprising launching the UAV. 