An apparatus may include a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material through an outlet; and a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly, the robotic arm having at one end a gripper configured to pick up an element and deposit the element at a desired position relative to the extruded material. The element may be one of: a reinforcement member for a structure being constructed; a segment of a plumbing pipe; an electric network component; and a tile.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material through an outlet; and a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly, the robotic arm having at one end a gripper configured to pick up and hold an element that is to be embedded in the extruded material and to release the element after the element is embedded in the extruded material, whereby the controllable robotic arm is configured to move the gripper relative to the nozzle assembly to cause the element that is being held by the gripper to be inserted in material extruded by the nozzle assembly at a desired position relative to the extruded material. 2. An apparatus comprising: a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material through an outlet; a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly, the robotic arm having at one end a gripper configured to pick up and hold plumbing pipe that is to be embedded in the extruded material and to release the plumbing pipe after the plumbing pipe is embedded in the extruded material at a desired position relative to the extruded material; and a heater device coupled to the robotic arm and configured to directly heat at least a portion of the plumbing pipe after it is picked up by the gripper, embedded in an overlapping manner in the extruded material, and released by the gripper. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the heater device has a substantially annular configuration, and is configured to directly heat overlapping portions of a first and a second plumbing pipe that have been embedded by the gripper in extruded material so as to bond the first plumbing pipe with the second plumbing pipe. 4. An apparatus comprising: a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material through an outlet; a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly, the robotic arm having at one end a gripper configured to pick up an element and deposit the element at a desired position relative to the extruded material; and a heater device coupled to the robotic arm and configured to heat at least a portion of the element picked up by the gripper, wherein the heater device has a substantially annular configuration, and is configured to heat overlapping portions of a first tubular element and a second tubular element so as to bond the first tubular element with the second tubular element; and wherein the heater device includes a first component and a second component, the first and second components movable from an open position in which they are spaced apart, to a closed position in which they are in engagement so as to capture at least a portion of the element therebetween. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the heater device comprises an electrically activated, resistive metal coil. 6. An apparatus comprising: a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material through an outlet; and a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly, the robotic arm having at one end a plurality of grippers, each configured to pick up and hold plumbing pipe that is to be embedded in the extruded material and to release the plumbing pipe after the plumbing pipe is embedded in the extruded material--at a desired position relative to the extruded material, wherein each gripper is configured to grasp an element from a different orientation than the other grippers. 7. An apparatus comprising: a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material through an outlet; and a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly, the robotic arm having at one end a gripper configured to hold plumbing pipe that is to be embedded in the extruded material and to release the plumbing pipe after the plumbing pipe is embedded in the extruded material--at a desired position relative to the extruded material, wherein at least a portion of the robotic arm has a hollow tubular configuration adapted to receive the tubular element therewithin. 8. An apparatus comprising: a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material through an outlet; and a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly, the robotic arm having at one end a gripper configured to pick up and hold plumbing pipe that is to be embedded in the extruded material and to release the plumbing pipe after the plumbing pipe is embedded in the extruded material--at a desired position relative to the extruded material, wherein the gripper includes a suction cup operable to pick up and release the element by vacuum suction. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the gripper is operable to pick up and deposit a plurality of elements in a desired sequential order. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the nozzle assembly includes a nozzle configured to extrude material through the outlet, and a trowel configured to shape material extruded from the nozzle. 11. An apparatus comprising: a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material through an outlet; a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly, the robotic arm having at one end a gripper configured to pick up an element and deposit the element at a desired position relative to the extruded material; and a heater device coupled to the robotic arm and configured to heat at least a portion of the element picked up by the gripper, wherein the heater device includes a first component and a second component, the first and second components movable from an open position in which they are spaced apart, to a closed position in which they are in engagement so as to capture at least a portion of the element therebetween. 