Disclosed are a system, a method, and article of manufacture to provide for managing data storage media to provide secure storage of the data storage media in an automated data storage library. A logical library partition vault is created in the automated data storage library that is not accessible by any host computer. Data storage media in the logical library partition vault may only be accessed by an operator using a secure means. The logical library partition vault may comprise various components of the automated data storage library by assigning storage shelves, service bays, data storage media, data storage drives or other library components to the logical library partition vault.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for managing data storage media in an automated data storage library, comprising: partitioning said automated data storage library into one or more logical libraries, wherein at least one of said one or more logical libraries is accessible by at least one host computer; creating a logical library partition vault in said automated data storage library that is not accessible by any host computer; placing one or more of said data storage media in said logical library partition vault; and restricting access to said logical library partition vault. 2. The method of claim 1, where the creating step further comprises: assigning one or more cartridge maps to said logical library partition vault. 3. The method of claim 1, where the creating step further comprises: assigning one or more storage shelves to said logical library partition vault. 4. The method of claim 1, where the creating step further comprises: assigning a service bay to said logical library partition vault. 5. The method of claim 1, where the creating step further comprises: assigning one or more data storage drives to said logical library partition vault. 6. The method of claim 1, where the creating step further comprises: assigning one or more data storage drives to said logical library partition vault; placing at least one of said one or more data storage media in at least one of said one or more data storage drives; and ejecting said at least one of said one or more data storage media from said at least one of said one or more data storage drives only if secure access to said one or more data storage drives is verified. 7. The method of claim 1, where the creating step further comprises: assigning one or more reduced function data storage drives to said logical library partition vault. 8. The method of claim 1, where the creating step further comprises: assigning one or more input/output stations to said logical library partition vault. 9. The method of claim 1, where the placing step further comprises: only in response to a library controller verifying an access key, allowing said data storage media to be placed in said logical library partition vault. 10. The method of claim 1, where the restricting step further comprises: preventing any host computer from directing an accessor to move said data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 11. The method of claim 1, where the restricting step further comprises: only in response to a library controller verifying an access key, directing an accessor to move said one or more data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 12. The method of claim 1, where the restricting step further comprises: only in response to a library controller verifying an access key, allowing a door to be opened on said automated data storage library to permit access to said one or more data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 13. The method of claim 1, where the restricting step further comprises: in response to entering a key in a locked door of said automated data storage library, allowing said door to open to permit access to said one or more data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 