Oligomeric compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of eIF4E. The antisense compounds may be single- or double-stranded and are targeted to nucleic acid encoding eIF4E. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of eIF4E expression and for diagnosis and treatment of diseases and conditions associated with expression of eIF4E are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modified antisense oligonucleotide, comprising the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:40, having at least one chemically modified internucleoside linkage, sugar moiety, or nucleobase, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. 2. The modified antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1, which consists of 20 to 30 nucleotides. 3. The modified antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1, having at least one 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) sugar moiety. 4. The modified antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1, having at least one phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 5. The modified antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1, wherein at least one cytosine is a 5-methylcytosine. 6. The modified antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1, wherein every internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage, nucleotides 1-5 and 16-20 reading from the 5' end to the 3' end of SEQ ID NO:40 each comprise a 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) sugar, nucleotides 6-15 are 2'-deoxynucleotides, and every cytosine residue is a 5-methylcytosine. 7. The modified antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1, which is in the form of a sodium salt. 8. A modified antisense oligonucleotide, consisting of the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:40, wherein every internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage, nucleotides 1-5 and 16-20 reading from the 5' end to the 3' end each comprise a 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) sugar, nucleotides 6-15 are 2'-deoxynucleotides, and every cytosine residue is a 5-methylcytosine, which modified antisense oligonucleotide is in the form of a sodium salt. 9. A pharmaceutical or veterinary composition, comprising said sodium salt of said modified antisense oligonucleotide of claim 8, and a pharmaceutically or physiologically acceptable carrier, diluent, or excipient. 10. A method of treating a condition or disease associated with eIF4E expression or overexpression in a mammal in need thereof, comprising administering to said mammal an effective amount of said sodium salt of said modified antisense oligonucleotide of claim 8. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said condition or disease associated with eIF4E expression or overexpression is a hyperproliferative condition or disease. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said hyperproliferative condition or disease is a susceptible cancer, tumor, or condition characterized by aberrant angiogenesis. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein said hyperproliferative condition or disease associated with eIF4E expression or overexpression is selected from the group consisting of breast cancer, head and neck cancer, colorectal cancer, prostate cancer, lung cancer, bladder cancer, ovarian cancer, renal cancer, and glioblastoma. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein said mammal is a human. 15. A modified antisense oligonucleotide, consisting of the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:40, having at least one chemically modified internucleoside linkage, sugar moiety, or nucleobase, which modified antisense oligonucleotide is in the form of a sodium salt. 16. A The modified antisense oligonucleotide of claim 15, wherein every internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage, nucleotides 1-5 and 16-20 reading from the 5' end to the 3' end each comprise a 2' -O-(2-methoxyethyl) sugar, nucleotides 6-15 are 2'-deoxynucleotides, and at least one cytosine is a 5-methylcytosine, and which modified antisense oligonucleotide is in the form of a sodium salt. 