Compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1. The compositions comprise oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acid encoding diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 expression and for diagnosis and treatment of disease associated with expression of diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1, such as obesity and obesity-related conditions, are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound 12 to 80 nucleobases in length targeted to at least an 8 nucleobase portion of nucleotides 401 to 460 of SEQ ID NO: 4 encoding diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1, wherein said compound is at least 95% complementary to SEQ ID NO:4. 2. The compound of claim 1 comprising 12 to 50 nucleobases in length. 3. The compound of claim 2 comprising 15 to 30 nucleobases in length. 4. The compound of claim 1 comprising an oligonucleotide. 5. The compound of claim 4 comprising an antisense oligonucleotide. 6. The compound of claim 4 comprising a DNA oligonucleotide. 7. The compound of claim 4 comprising an RNA oligonucleotide. 8. The compound of claim 4 comprising a chimeric oligonucleotide. 9. The compound according to claim 8, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide is 20 nucleotides in length, comprising ten 2'-deoxynucleotides, flanked on each side by five 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleotides, wherein the internucleoside linkages are phosphorothioate, and all cytidine residues are 5-methylcytidines. 10. The compound of claim 4 wherein at least a portion of said compound hybridizes with RNA to form an oligonucleotide-RNA duplex. 11. The compound of claim 1 having at least one modified internucleoside linkage, sugar moiety, or nucleobase. 12. The compound of claim 1 having at least one 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 13. The compound of claim 1 having at least one phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 14. The compound of claim 1 having at least one 5-methylcytosine. 15. A method of inhibiting the expression of diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 in cells or tissues comprising contacting said cells or tissues with the compound of claim 1 so that expression of diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 is inhibited. 16. A kit or assay device comprising the compound of claim 1. 17. A method of treating an animal having a disease or condition associated with diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 comprising administering to said animal a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of the compound of claim 1 so that expression of diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 is inhibited. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the condition involves abnormal lipid metabolism. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the condition involves abnormal cholesterol metabolism. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein the condition is atherosclerosis. 21. The method of claim 17 wherein the condition is an abnormal metabolic condition. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the abnormal metabolic condition is hyperlipidemia. 23. The method of claim 17 wherein the disease is diabetes. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the diabetes is Type 2 diabetes. 25. The method of claim 17 wherein the condition is obesity. 26. The method of claim 17 wherein the disease is cardiovascular disease. 27. A method of modulating glucose levels in an animal comprising administering to said animal the compound of claim 1. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the animal is a human. 29. The method of claim 27 wherein the glucose levels are plasma glucose levels. 30. The method of claim 27 wherein the glucose levels are serum glucose levels. 31. The method of claim 27 wherein the animal is a diabetic animal. 32. A method of delaying the onset of a disease or condition associated with diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 in an animal comprising administering to said animal a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of claim 1. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein the animal is a human. 34. The method of claim 32 wherein the condition is an abnormal metabolic condition. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the abnormal metabolic condition is hyperlipidemia. 36. The method of claim 32 wherein the disease is diabetes. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein the diabetes is Type 2 diabetes. 38. The method of claim 32 wherein the condition is obesity. 39. A method of modulating cholesterol levels in an animal comprising administering to said animal the compound of claim 1. 40. The method of claim 39 wherein the animal is a human. 41. The method of claim 39 wherein the cholesterol levels are plasma cholesterol levels. 42. The method of claim 39 wherein the cholesterol levels are serum cholesterol levels. 43. A method of lowering triglyceride levels in an animal comprising administering to said animal the compound of claim 1. 44. The method of claim 43 wherein the animal is a human. 45. The method of claim 43 wherein the triglyceride levels are plasma triglyceride levels. 46. The method of claim 43 wherein the triglyceride levels are serum triglyceride levels. 47. A method of reducing serum glucose levels in an animal comprising contacting said animal with the compound of claim 1. 48. A method of reducing diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 levels in the liver of an animal comprising contacting said animal with the compound of claim 1. 49. A method of reducing circulating insulin levels in an animal comprising contacting said animal with the compound of claim 1. 50. The method according to claim 49, wherein said reduction is sustained over at least 5 weeks. 51. A method of decreasing fasted serum insulin levels in an animal comprising contacting said animal with the compound of claim 1. 52. A method of reducing serum glucose levels in an animal comprising contacting said animal with the compound of claim 1. 53. A method of improving an animal's performance on glucose tolerance tests and insulin tolerance tests comprising contacting said animal with the compound of claim 1. 54. A method of reducing circulating triglycerides in an animal comprising contacting said animal with the compound of claim 1. 55. A method of reducing liver triglycerides in an animal comprising contacting said animal with the compound of claim 1. 56. A method of reducing free fatty acids in the liver of an animal comprising contacting said animal with the compound of claim 1. 57. The compound of claim 1 wherein the compound comprises at least and 8 nucleobase portion of SEQ ID NO: 31, 32 or 33. 58. The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound consists of SEQ ID NO: 31, 32, or 33. 59. The compound of claim 1 wherein the compound inhibits diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 expression by at least 60%. 60. The compound of claim 57, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 61. The compound of claim 60, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar; and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 62. A compound comprising an oligonucleotide consisting of the nucleobase sequence of SEQ ID NO: 33, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 63. The compound of claim 62, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar; and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 64. A composition comprising an oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 80 linked nucleosides and having a nucleobase sequence comprising at least 8 contiguous nucleobases of the nucleobase sequence recited in SEQ ID NO: 33 or a salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluents. 65. A method of inhibiting the expression of diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 in a human comprising administering to said human the composition of claim 62. 