An autonomous robot, that is for example, suitable for operations such as vacuuming and surface cleaning includes a payload configured for vacuum cleaning, a drive system including a steering system, a navigation system, and a control system for integrating operations of the aforementioned systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A nozzle for suction of particulates comprising: a body, said body including a first end and a second end, said first end including a neck, and said second end including an upper edge and a lower edge defining an opening therebetween; and, a lip extending at least substantially parallel to said opening along said upper edge and extending at least partially beyond said lower edge of said second end, said lip tapering upward from a portion of greater thickness to portions of lesser thickness, said lip configured for creating a flow cavity to be formed with a floor or surface over which said nozzle traverses. 2. The nozzle of claim 1, wherein said lip is rounded in cross sectional shape. 3. The nozzle of claim 1, wherein said lip and said opening define a constant vertical aperture. 4. The nozzle of claim 1, wherein said upper edge is along a first plane and said lower edge is along a second plane, said first and second planes at least substantially parallel with respect to each other. 5. The nozzle of claim 1, wherein said body includes outwardly tapered sides, said outward tapering extending from said neck. 6. An obstacle detection system for an autonomous cleaning machine comprising: a control system; a nozzle, said nozzle including a first end for receiving particulate inflow, and a second end for communicating with a suction generating unit, said second end including arms; a height adjustment system coupled to said first end of said nozzle, said height adjustment system in communication with said control system; receiver portions configured for receiving said arms in a pivotal engagement, at least one of said arms and a respective receiver portion including first electrically conducting portions in electronic communication with said control system; and at least one of said arms mounted in said respective receiver portion so as to define an open circuit when said at least one arm is at a first position in said respective receiver portion, where said first electrically conducting portions are out of contact with each other, and, defining a closed circuit when said at least one arm is at a second position in said respective receiver portion, where said first electrically conducting portions are in contact with each other. 7. The obstacle detection system of claim 6, additionally comprising a biasing member in communication with said at least one arm and said respective receiver portion for maintaining said at least one arm in said first position. 8. The obstacle detection system of claim 7, wherein said biasing member includes a spring. 9. The obstacle detection system of claim 7, additionally comprising: second electrically conducting portions on said at least one arm and said respective receiver portion, said second electrically conducting portions in communication with said control system; and said at least one arm mounted in said respective receiver portion so as to define a closed circuit when said at least one arm is at said first position in said respective receiver portion, where said second electrically conducting portions are in contact with each other, and, defining an open circuit when said at least one arm is at said second position, where said second electrically conducting portions are out of contact with each other. 10. The obstacle detection system of claim 9, wherein said control system is configured to signal said height adjustment system upon the detection of either of: said closed circuit between said first electrically conducting portions; or said open circuit between said second electrically conducting portions. 11. An obstacle detection system for an autonomous cleaning machine comprising: a control system; a nozzle, said nozzle including a first end for receiving particulate inflow, and a second end for communicating with a suction generating unit, said second end including arms; a height adjustment system coupled to said first end of said nozzle, said height adjustment system in communication with said control system; receiver portions configured for receiving said arms in a pivotal engagement, at least one of said arms and a respective receiver portion including first electrically conducting portions in electronic communication with said control system; and at least one of said arms mounted in said respective receiver portion so as to define a closed circuit when said at least one arm is at a first position in said respective receiver portion, where said first electrically conducting portions are in contact with each other, and, defining an open circuit when said at least one arm is at a second position in said respective receiver portion, where said first electrically conducting portions are out of contact with each other. 12. The obstacle detection system of claim 11, additionally comprising a biasing member in communication with said at least one arm and said respective receiver portion for maintaining said at least one arm in said first position. 13. The obstacle detection system of claim 12, wherein said biasing member includes a spring. 14. The obstacle detection system of claim 12, additionally comprising: second electrically conducting portions on said at least one arm and said respective receiver portion, said second electrically conducting portions in communication with said control system; and said at least one arm mounted in said respective receiver portion so as to define an open circuit when said at least one arm is at said first position in said respective receiver portion, where said second electrically conducting portions are out of contact with each other, and, defining a closed circuit when said at least one arm is at said second position in said respective receiver portion, where said second electrically conducting portions are in contact with each other. 15. The obstacle detection system of claim 14, wherein said control system is configured to signal said height adjustment system upon the detection of either of: said open circuit between said first electrically conducting portions; or said closed circuit between said second electrically conducting portions. 