Described herein is a mobile data storage magazine for interacting with a docking station. The magazine can include a magazine frame containing a plurality of operatively interconnected disk drives, a first contact element associated with the magazine frame capable of conducting electrical power to at least one of the plurality of disk drives when engaged with a second contact element associated with the docking station wherein the first and second contact elements are adapted to cooperate in a non male/female relationship. The magazine can further comprise a first communication element capable of conducting data between at least one of the plurality of disk drives and the docking station when the first communication element is operatively linked to a second communication element associated with the docking station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A magazine-based library comprising: a first shelf system and second shelf system disposed inside of a first library frame wherein said first shelf system possesses a first face and wherein said second shelf system possesses a second face and wherein said first face opposes a second face; a magazine transport operable within a magazine transport space wherein said magazine transport space is located between said first face and said second face of said shelf systems; a first magazine transportable via said magazine transport from said first shelf system to said second shelf system wherein said magazine is constrained to face in a single direction without rotation inside said library. 2. The magazine-based library of claim 1 wherein said first shelf system comprises at least a first and second shelf capable of accommodating a plurality of magazines. 3. The magazine-based library of claim 2 wherein said second shelf system comprises at least a third and fourth shelf capable of accommodating said plurality of magazines. 4. The magazine-based library of claim 1 further comprising: a third shelf system and fourth shelf system disposed inside of a second library frame wherein said third shelf system has a third face that opposes a fourth face associated with said fourth shelf system; said second library frame attachable to said first library frame such that said first face and said third face essentially form a single first combined face, said second face and said fourth face essentially form a single second combined face, and said magazine transport space extends from said first library frame into said second library frame. 5. The magazine-based library of claim 4 wherein said first magazine is transportable via said magazine transport from said first shelf system to either said third shelf system or said fourth shelf system. 6. The magazine-based library of claim 4 wherein said magazine transport is moved vertically by an elevator system within said magazine transport space. 7. The magazine-based library of claim 6 further comprising a horizontal guide along which said magazine transport and elevator system can traverse within said magazine transport space in both said first and said second library frames. 8. The magazine-based library of claim 1 wherein said magazine is selected from a group consisting of: disk drive magazine, tape cassette magazine. 9. The magazine-based library of claim 1 wherein the magazine is pulled onto a supporting platform along at least one rail associated with said supporting platform from said first shelf system and wherein said magazine is pushed onto said second shelf system from said supporting platform. 10. The magazine-based library of claim 9 wherein a first and a second identification label are disposed on said magazine, said first identification label is viewable from said first face and said second identification label is viewable from said second face. 11. The magazine-based library of claim 10 wherein said magazine transport device comprises a magazine picker that is capable of pulling said first magazine from said first shelf system onto a supporting platform and pushing said first magazine from said supporting platform to said second shelf system; an elevator for moving said magazine picker vertically within said magazine transport space; and a horizontal guide for moving said elevator horizontally within said magazine transport space. 12. The magazine-based library of claim 11 wherein said magazine transport further comprises a cartridge picker. 13. The magazine-based library of claim 12 wherein said cartridge picker is capable of extracting a cartridge from said magazine, rotating said cartridge substantially 90 degrees and inserting said cartridge into a tape drive. 14. A modular magazine-based library comprising: a first frame having a first side and a second side, said second side substantially parallel to said first side; a second frame having a third side and a fourth side, said fourth side substantially parallel to said third side; said first frame connected to said second frame wherein said first side and said third side define a first common side and said second side and said fourth side define a second common side; a first shelf system disposed substantially at said first common side; a second shelf system disposed at said second common side; a magazine transport space extending from said first frame to said second frame and interposed between said first and second shelf systems, said magazine transport space accommodating a magazine transport; and means for transporting a first magazine via said magazine transport from said first shelf system to said second shelf system while said magazine is constrained to face in a single direction without rotation. 15. The modular magazine-based library of claim 14 wherein said first shelf system comprises a first set of shelves associated with said first frame, said first set of shelves capable of accommodating a plurality of magazines and a second set of shelves associated with said second frame, said second set of shelves capable of accommodating said plurality of magazines. 16. The modular magazine-based library of claim 15 wherein said magazine transport is movable along at least one common guide that extends from said first frame through said second frame and into said third 1 frame. 17. The modular magazine-based library of claim 14 further comprising: a third frame having a fifth side and a sixth side that is substantially parallel to said fifth side; said third frame connected to said second frame wherein said fifth side shares said first common side and said sixth side shares said second common side; a third shelf system disposed at said fifth side and a fourth shelf system disposed at said sixth side; said magazine transport space further extends between said third and fourth second shelf systems; and said first magazine capable of being transported via said magazine transport from said first shelf system to said third or fourth shelf system. 18. A method of using a modular magazine-based library, said method comprising the steps of: providing said modular magazine-based library having at least two frames wherein each of said frames comprise a first set of shelves disposed along a first common side of said frames, and a second set of shelves disposed along a second common side of said frames, a plurality of magazines disposed at said first and second set of shelves, and a magazine transport within an accommodating magazine transport space wherein said magazine transport space is interposed between said first and second set of shelves; displacing a magazine of said plurality of magazines from said first set of shelves associated with said first frame to said magazine transport wherein said magazine is constrained facing a single direction without rotation during said displacing; moving said magazine via said magazine transport within said magazine transport space to a first shelf associated with said second set of shelves that are associated with said second frame and wherein said magazine remains constrained facing in said single direction without rotation during said moving; and disposing said magazine to said first shelf wherein said magazine remains constrained facing in said single direction without rotation during said disposing. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising: displacing said magazine from said first shelf to said magazine transport wherein said magazine is constrained facing a single direction without rotation; moving said magazine via said magazine transport within said magazine transport space to a second shelf associated with said second set of shelves that are associated with said first frame wherein said magazine remains constrained facing in said single direction without rotation; and disposing said magazine to said second shelf wherein said magazine remains constrained facing in said single direction without rotation. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein there is a vertical offset between said first shelf and said second shelf and said moving step is accomplished via an elevator associated with said magazine transport, said elevator accommodating moving said magazine transport in a vertical direction. 