A method and apparatus for analyzing molecular structures within a sample substance using an array having a plurality of test sites upon which the sample substance is applied. The invention is also directed to a method and apparatus for constructing molecular arrays having a plurality of test sites. The invention allows for definitive high throughput analysis of multiple analytes in complex mixtures of sample substances. A combinatorial analysis process is described that results in the creation of an array of integrated chemical devices. These devices operate in parallel, each unit providing specific sets of data that, when taken as a whole, give a complete answer for a defined experiment. This approach is uniquely capable of rapidly providing a high density of information from limited amounts of sample in a cost-effective manner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reaction substrate useful for analyzing one or more targets in a sample comprising before the addition of the sample multiple regions, at least two of which are substantially identical, each region comprising an array of at least eight different biosites, each comprising a different type of capture probe bound to said substrate, each capture probe bound to a corresponding bi-functional target probe comprising two domains, a first domain comprising a capture probe specific domain which specifically binds a corresponding capture probe, and a second domain comprising a target specific domain. 2. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein said reaction substrate is about 50 .mu.m to about 300 .mu.m in thickness. 3. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein said capture probe is a first oligonucleotide, each capture probe specific domain is a second oligonucleotide, and each target analyte specific domain is a third oligonucleotide. 4. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein each capture probe is a hapten, each capture specific domain is a hapten binding polypeptide, and each target analyte specific domain is an oligonucleotide. 5. The reaction substrate of claim 4, wherein each hapten binding polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of an antibody, a Fab, an F(ab').sub.2, an Fv, an SCA and a CDR. 6. The reaction substrate of claim 3, wherein each target analyte specific domain is an oligonucleotide nucleic acid amplification primer. 7. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein at least one reaction substrate is contained in at least one reaction chamber. 8. The reaction substrate of claim 7, wherein a plurality of reaction substrates are contained within each reaction chamber. 9. The reaction substrate of claim 8, further including a reaction vessel, wherein a plurality of reaction chambers are contained within said reaction vessel. 10. The reaction substrate of claim 8, wherein said reaction vessel comprises about 2 to about 10,000 reaction chambers. 11. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein said reaction substrate is optically clear. 12. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein each region comprises at least about 64 different capture probes. 13. The reaction substrate of claim 1, having at least about 96 to about 1536 substantially identical regions. 14. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein each of said regions comprises about 30 to about 100 capture probes, each specific for a different target. 15. The reaction substrate of claim 1, having about 96 substantially identical regions, wherein each region comprises about 16, 36, 46 or 100 different oligonucleotide capture probes. 16. The reaction substrate of claim 1, having about 384 substantially identical regions, wherein each region comprises about 9, 16, or 25 different oligonucleotide capture probes. 17. The reaction substrate of claim 1, having about 1536 substantially identical regions, wherein each region comprises about 4 or 9 different oligonucleotide capture probes. 18. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein said regions are further subdivided into smaller subregions. 19. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein the region further comprises controls for hybridization efficiency or specificity. 20. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein the region further comprises controls for the capacity of a locus to bind target. 21. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein said probe is a peptide or protein molecule. 22. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein said array of biosites comprises from about 8 to about 10,000 biosites. 23. The reaction substrate of claim 1, wherein said array of biosites comprises from about 8 to about 100,000 biosites. 24. A method of determining the presence of a nucleic acid target in a sample comprising contacting a nucleic acid comprising a target sequence or a complement thereof with the reaction substrate of claim 1. 25. A method of determining the presence of a nucleic acid target in a sample comprising contacting a nucleic acid comprising a target sequence or a complement thereof with the reaction substrate of claim 1. 26. A method of claim 25 comprising contacting said substrate with a medium to which was added said nucleic acid sequence or complement and corresponding target probe(s). 27. A method of claim 25 comprising forming on said substrate said capture probe/target probe complex and then contacting the latter with said nucleic acid comprising a target sequence or a complement thereof. 