An automated staining system and a reagent container designed for use with the automated staining apparatus. The reagent container includes a reagent containment section capable of containing a volume of a reagent. The reagent containment section includes an upper wall and a base wall that are spaced apart along an axis. The base wall includes a well having a nadir that is aligned axially with an access opening in the upper wall so that a reagent probe entering the opening parallel to the axis will travel toward the nadir. In another aspect of the invention, the reagent container may include a two-dimensional data element containing reagent information. The staining apparatus may include one removable drawer for holding reagent containers and another removable drawer for holding slides.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for staining specimens carried on a plurality of slides, comprising: a tray configured to hold the plurality of slides; a rack configured to hold a plurality of reagent containers, each of said containers holding a volume of a reagent; a robotic delivery system including a selectively movable probe configured to withdraw reagent volumes from selected reagent containers and deposit the reagent volumes on selected slides according to a predetermined staining protocol; and a control system operatively coupled to said robotic delivery system for controlling said probe; and a chassis having a processing space and a first drawer supporting said tray, said first drawer having a first position in which said tray is positioned in said processing space for staining specimens on the slides and a second position in which said tray is positioned outside of said processing space for accessing the slides in said tray, wherein the first drawer supports the tray of slides during the entire staining protocol occurring in the processing space, including both the insertion of the tray of slides into the processing space at the start of the staining protocol and the removal of the tray of slides from the processing space at the end of the staining protocol. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said chassis further includes a second drawer supporting said reagent rack, said second drawer having a third position in which said reagent rack is positioned in said processing space and a fourth position in which said reagent rack is located outside of the processing space for one of adding reagents to said plurality reagent containers and adding reagent containers to the reagent rack. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said rack is removably positioned within said second drawer. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising a cover movable relative to said chassis between a closed condition for enclosing said processing space and an open condition, said cover remaining in said closed condition when said first drawer is moved between said first and said second positions and said second drawer is moved between said third and said fourth positions. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a cover movable relative to said chassis between a closed condition for enclosing said processing space and an open condition, said cover remaining in said closed condition when said first drawer is moved between said first and said second positions. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tray is removably positioned within said first drawer. 7. An apparatus for staining specimens carried on a plurality of slides, comprising: a tray configured to hold the plurality of slides; a rack configured to hold a plurality of reagent containers, each of said containers holding a volume of a reagent and having associated therewith a two-dimensional data storage element containing encoded reagent information; a robotic delivery system including a selectively movable probe configured to be positioned proximate selected ones of said reagent containers for withdrawing a reagent volume from said reagent containers and depositing the reagent volume on the slides according to a staining protocol, said robotic delivery system having an optical reader movable with said probe and configured to read said two-dimensional storage element; a control system programmable for conducting said staining protocol, said control system operatively coupled to said robotic delivery system for controlling said probe and operatively coupled to said optical reader for retrieving said reagent information read by said optical reader from said two-dimensional data storage elements for use in programming said staining protocol; and a chassis having a processing space and a first drawer supporting said tray, said first drawer having a first position in which said tray is positioned in said processing space for staining specimens on the slides and a second position in which said tray is positioned outside of said processing space for accessing the slides in said tray, wherein the first drawer supports the tray of slides during the entire staining protocol occurring in the processing space, including both the insertion of the tray of slides into the processing space at the start of the staining protocol and the removal of the tray of slides from the processing space at the end of the staining protocol. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said chassis further includes a second drawer supporting said reagent rack, said second drawer having a third position in which said reagent rack is positioned in said processing space and a fourth position in which said reagent rack is located outside of the processing space for one of adding reagents to said plurality of reagent containers and adding reagent containers to said reagent rack. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said rack is removably positioned within said second drawer. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a cover movable relative to said chassis between a closed condition for enclosing said processing space and an open condition, said cover remaining in said closed condition when said first drawer is moved between said first and said second positions and said second drawer is moved between said third and said fourth positions. 11. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a cover movable relative to said chassis between a closed condition for enclosing said processing space and an open condition, said cover remaining in said closed condition when said first drawer is moved between said first and said second positions. 12. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said tray is removably positioned within said first drawer. 13. An apparatus for staining specimens carried on a plurality of slides, comprising: a tray configured to hold the plurality of slides; a rack configured to hold a plurality of reagent containers, each of said containers holding a volume of a reagent and having associated therewith a two-dimensional data storage element containing encoded reagent information; a robotic delivery system including a selectively movable probe configured to be positioned proximate selected ones of said reagent containers for withdrawing a reagent volume from said reagent containers and depositing the reagent volume on the slides according to a staining protocol, said robotic delivery system having an optical reader movable with said probe and configured to read said two-dimensional storage element; a control system programmable for conducting said staining protocol, said control system operatively coupled to said robotic delivery system for controlling said probe and operatively coupled to said optical reader for retrieving said reagent information read by said optical reader from said two-dimensional data storage elements for use in programming said staining protocol; and a chassis having a processing space and a drawer supporting said reagent rack, said drawer having a first position in which said reagent rack is positioned in said processing space and a second position in which said reagent rack is positioned outside of said processing space for one of adding reagents to said reagent containers and adding reagent containers to said reagent rack. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said rack is removably positioned within said drawer. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising a cover movable relative to said chassis between a closed condition for enclosing said processing space and an open condition, said cover remaining in said closed condition when said drawer is moved between said first and said second positions. 