An edge beam construction including two vertical perforated rolled shapes with webs inverted toward the center of the beam, and a bottom track having a flange disposed in a vertical position against bottom lips of the vertical rolled shapes. The three basic components of the edge beam are positioned so as to provide access for press joining tools. A building module manufacturing method utilizes the light gauge steel rolled shapes that permit industrialized, automated manufacture of floor, roof and wall panels for modular housing and commercial structures with integrated mechanical and electrical systems and rigid framing for road transport without trailers. The module manufacturing method includes a novel method of constructing and positioning a gable.
Claims I claim: 1. A building module manufacturing method comprising: forming a plurality of perforated steel edge beams, wherein each of the edge beams is formed by placing and connecting a pair of vertical members in a bottom track; placing, via a carousel, transverse connectors over the edge beams; placing transverse members in the transverse connectors to form a structural member, wherein the transverse members are placed with an overhead dispenser; fixing the transverse members in the transverse connectors; selecting and placing lower sheeting with a vacuum lift material delivery system for transport to a sheeting preparation machine; transporting the lower sheeting to the sheeting preparation machine; performing routing, punching and glue application on the lower sheeting as the lower sheeting passes through the sheeting preparation machine; conveying the lower sheeting under the structural member and pressing the lower sheeting upward; and adhering the lower sheeting to the structural member and mechanically fastening the lower sheeting from below to form a panel. 2. The building module manufacturing method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: inserting pre-assembled mechanical and utility assemblies into the structural member; pressure testing the structural member after the pre-assembled mechanical and utility assemblies are inserted therein; insulating the structural member with expanding foam insulation; and applying top sheeting with a vacuum lift material delivery system from above the structural member to form a panel. 3. The building module manufacturing method as claimed in claim 2, further comprising sliding the panel onto scissor lifts provided with a low-friction sliding surface. 4. The building module manufacturing method as claimed in claim 3, further comprising: constructing a gable from the panel including cutting the panel approximately 80% through, rotating the panel, and cutting the remaining 20% of the panel through to form a plurality of gable sections; relocating the sections to a final shipping position; and attaching, via hinges, the gable sections to roof panels. 5. The building module manufacturing method as claimed in claim 4, further comprising erecting a roof using removable and reusable roof hinges that include integral crane connections for raising the roof on-site. 6. The building module manufacturing method as claimed in claim 5, further comprising forming interior walls, exterior wall, and marriage walls as contiguous panels, and separating the contiguous panels immediately prior to installation. 7. The building module manufacturing method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the bottom track is formed of steel and has vertical flanges interconnected with a horizontal web. 8. The building module manufacturing method as claimed in claim 7, wherein each of the vertical members is formed of steel and is perforated, and the vertical members are connected to the bottom track by press joining. 9. The building module manufacturing method as claimed in claim 7, wherein: each of the vertical members has a vertical web projecting in a direction toward a center of the edge beam, a top flange, a bottom flange, and a lip projecting from a longitudinal edge of said bottom flange, and the top and bottom flanges are interconnected by the vertical web. 10. The building module manufacturing method as claimed in claim 1, the transverse members are formed of steel, and are fixed in the transverse connectors by press-joining and robotic welding. 