An apparatus for normalizing a PCR instrument, can comprise a microplate comprising at least 6,000 wells and a system of dyes at known concentrations in a plurality of the at least 6,000 wells. A method for normalizing a system can comprise (a) providing a microplate comprising at least 6,000 wells and a system of dyes; (b) exciting at least one dye; (c) detecting an emission output for the at least one dye; (d) determining if the emission output is in an acceptable range; and (e) adjusting the system so that the emission output is in the acceptable range.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A calibration apparatus for calibrating an instrument, the instrument capable of polymerase chain reaction, the apparatus comprising: a microplate comprising at least 400 wells; and a plurality of the wells each having a mixture of dyes at known concentrations spatially distributed throughout the microplate. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a sealing cover coupled to the microplate. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the microplate has dimensions of about 127 cm by about 85 cm. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least 400 wells is 6,144 wells. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of the wells each having a mixture of dyes comprises a series dilution. 6. A method for calibrating an instrument, the method comprising: providing a first instrument; placing a microplate comprising at least 6,000 wells and a plurality of dyes in the first instrument; exciting at least one dye of the plurality of dyes; detecting an emission output from the at least one dye; determining if the emission output from the at least one dye is within a predetermined range; calibrating the first instrument so that the emission output from the at least one dye is within the predetermined range; providing a second instrument; placing the microplate comprising at least 6,000 wells and a plurality of dyes in the second instrument; exciting at least one dye of the plurality of dyes; detecting an emission output from the at least one dye; determining if the emission output from the at least one dye is within a predetermined range; and calibrating the second instrument so that the emission output from the at least one dye is within the predetermined range. 7. The method according to claim 6, further comprising cycling a temperature of the microplate. 8. A method according to claim 6, further comprising: exciting a second dye of the plurality of dyes; detecting an emission output from the second dye; determining if the emission output from the second dye is within a predetermined range; and calibrating the first instrument so that the emission output from the second dye is within the predetermined range. 9. The method according to claim 6 wherein the plurality of dyes comprises a series dilution. 10. The method according to claim 6 wherein the calibrating the first instrument so that the emission output from the at least one dye is within the predetermined range further comprises adjusting an excitation source of the system. 11. The method according to claim 6 wherein the calibrating the first instrument so that the emission output from the at least one dye is within the predetermined range further comprises adjusting a detector. 12. The method according to claim 6 wherein the calibrating the first instrument so that the emission output from the at least one dye is within the predetermined range further comprises adjusting an optical component. 13. The method according to claim 6 wherein the calibrating the first instrument so that the emission output from the at least one dye is within the predetermined range further comprises adjusting an electronic component. 14. A method for normalizing a first PCR system as compared to a second PCR system, the method comprising: providing a first PCR system; placing a microplate comprising at least 400 wells and a plurality of dyes in at least one of the at least 400 wells into the first PCR system; exciting at least one dye of the plurality of dyes; detecting an emission output from the at least one dye; evaluating an adjustment to the first PCR system based on the emission output for the at least one dye so that the first PCR system is normalized to the second PCR system; and adjusting the first PCR system operably normalizing it to the second PCR system. 15. The method according to claim 14, further comprising: exciting a second dye; detecting an emission output of the second dye; evaluating an adjustment to the first PCR system based on the emission output for the second dye so that the first PCR system is normalized to the second PCR system; and adjusting the first PCR system operably normalizing it to the second PCR system. 16. The method according to claim 14 wherein the adjusting the first PCR system operably normalizing it to the second PCR system, further comprising adjusting an optical component of the first PCR system. 17. The method according to claim 14 wherein the adjusting the first PCR system operably normalizing it to the second PCR system, further comprising adjusting an electronic component of the PCR system. 18. The method according to claim 14, further comprising cycling a temperature of the microplate. 19. The method according to claim 14, further comprising performing a PCR program. 20. The method according to claim 14, further comprising detecting an emission output of the at least one dye at each step of a PCR program. 21. The method according to claim 14 wherein the plurality of dyes comprise a series dilution. 