Methods, systems and apparatus for modeling a target system includes defining a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) that characterizes the target system in terms of a set of variables, each having a respective input domain, and initial constraints applicable to the variables. The variables are partitioned into at least first and second sets. An abstract solution is found to the CSP, including a given assignment of the variables in the first set. A reduced domain of at least one of the variables in the second set is computed, so as to be compatible with the abstract solution. A redundant constraint on the abstract solution is determined responsively to the reduced domain. A concrete solution to the CSP is then found, using the abstract solution and the redundant constraint.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for modeling a target system, comprising: defining a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) that characterizes the target system in terms of a set of variables, each having a respective input domain, and initial constraints applicable to the variables; partitioning the variables into at least first and second sets; finding an abstract solution to the constraint satisfaction problem comprising a given assignment of the variables in the first set; computing a reduced domain of at least one of the variables in the second set that is compatible with the abstract solution; determining a redundant constraint on the abstract solution responsively to the reduced domain; finding a concrete solution to the constraint satisfaction problem, using the abstract solution and the redundant constraint in forming a model of said target system and assigning a value to each variable from said set satisfying all the constraints, wherein said target system is a system for employing said concrete solution in modeling the target system for use in: control of a robotic arm in a mechanical system, wherein one or more of the variables correspond to control parameters of the mechanical system, and finding the concrete solution includes generating a command to control the mechanical system based on values of the one or more of the variables; and wherein finding the concrete solution comprises finding multiple concrete solutions based on the abstract solution, each of the concrete solutions comprising a specific assignments of the variables in the second set that is compatible with the given assignment of the variables in the first set; and wherein computing the reduced domain comprises applying arc consistency to a network of the constraints. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein finding the abstract solution comprises finding multiple abstract solutions for different, respective assignments of the variables in the first set, and wherein determining the redundant constraint comprises finding respective redundant constraints for the multiple abstract solutions. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein finding the multiple abstract solutions comprises pruning a solution space of the constraint satisfaction problem so as to eliminate one or more of the assignments of the variables in the first set. 4. The method according to claim 2, wherein defining the constraint satisfaction problem comprises imposing at least one additional constraint so as to define a concrete constraint satisfaction problem, and wherein finding the concrete solution comprises applying both the respective redundant constraints and the at least one additional constraint to each of the multiple abstract solutions. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein applying both the respective redundant constraints and the at least one additional constraint comprises iterating over respective domains of the variables in the second set that satisfy both the respective redundant constraints and the at least one additional constraint in order to find the concrete solution. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein applying both the respective redundant constraints and the at least one additional constraint comprises determining for at least one of the abstract solutions that at least one of the respective domains of the variables in the second set that satisfy both the respective redundant constraints and the at least one additional constraint is empty, and eliminating the at least one of the abstract solutions. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein computing the reduced domain comprises eliminating one or more values from the respective input domain of the at least one of the variables in the second set. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein defining the constraint satisfaction problem comprises imposing at least one additional constraint so as to define a concrete constraint satisfaction problem, and wherein finding the concrete solution comprises applying both the redundant constraint and the at least one additional constraint to the abstract solution. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein applying both the redundant constraint and the at least one additional constraint comprises eliminating the abstract solution if the at least one additional constraint is incompatible with the redundant constraint. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the target system has a structure and one or more inputs, and wherein defining the constraint satisfaction problem comprises defining first variables corresponding to the structure of the target system and second variables that are characteristic of the inputs to the target system, and wherein finding the concrete solution comprises finding values of the second variables so as to determine the inputs to be made to the target system. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein partitioning the variables comprises placing the first variables in the first set and the second variables in the second set. 12. The method according to claim 10, wherein finding the values of the second variables comprises generating input values so as to test the target system. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the target system comprises an electronic system comprising a processor, and wherein generating the input values comprises determining parameters of a command to be input to the processor. 14. The method according to claim 13, and comprising testing a design of the electronic system using the command. 15. The method according to claim 13, wherein the first variables define components of the electronic system, a configuration of the components, and one or more interactions among the components. 16. The method according to claim 1, wherein the target system comprises a mechanical system, and one or more of the variables correspond to control parameters of a mechanical system, and wherein finding the concrete solution comprises generating a command to control the mechanical system based on values of the one or more of the variables. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein one or more of the variables correspond to features of an image containing visual information, and wherein finding the concrete solution comprises identifying an object in the image based on the features. 18. The method according to claim 1, wherein one or more of the variables correspond to a natural language input, and wherein finding the concrete solution comprises parsing the natural language, responsively to values of the one or more of the variables, so as to interpret the language. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein one or more of the variables correspond to characteristics of a condition, and wherein finding the concrete solution comprises determining a diagnosis of the condition based on values of the one or more of the variables. 20. The method according to claim 1, wherein one or more of the variables correspond to characteristics of resources whose use is to be scheduled, and wherein finding the concrete solution comprises scheduling the use of the resources responsively to values of the one or more of the variables. 21. An apparatus for modeling a target system, comprising: a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) solver, which is receives a definition of a constraint satisfaction problem that characterizes the target system in terms of a set of variables, each having a respective input domain, and initial constraints applicable to the variables, the solver partitions the variables into at least first and second sets, finds an abstract solution to the constraint satisfaction problem comprising a given assignment of the variables in the first set, computes a reduced domain of at least one of the variables in the second set that is compatible with the abstract solution, determines a redundant constraint on the abstract solution responsively to the reduced domain, and finds a concrete solution to the constraint satisfaction problem, using the abstract solution and the redundant constraint in forming a model of said target system and assigning a value to each variable from said set satisfying all the constraints, wherein said target system is a system for employing said concrete solution in modeling the target system for use in control of a robotic arm in a mechanical system, wherein one or more of the variables correspond to control parameters of the mechanical system, and finding the concrete solution includes generating a command to control the mechanical system based on values of the one or more of the variables; and wherein the solver is arranged to find multiple concrete solutions based on the abstract solution, each of the concrete solutions comprising a specific assignments of the variables in the second set that is compatible with the given assignment of the variables in the first set; and wherein the solver is arranged to eliminate the one or more values by applying arc consistency to a network of the constraints. 22. A computer software product, comprising a computer-readable medium in which program instructions are stored, which instructions, when read by a computer, cause the computer to accept a definition of a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) that characterizes a target system in terms of a set of variables, each having a respective input domain, and initial constraints applicable to the variables, and further cause the computer to partition the variables into at least first and second sets, to find an abstract solution to the constraint satisfaction problem comprising a given assignment of the variables in the first set, to compute a reduced domain of at least one of the variables in the second set that is compatible with the abstract solution, to determine a redundant constraint on the abstract solution responsively to the reduced domain, and to find a concrete solution to the constraint satisfaction problem, using the abstract solution and the redundant constraint in forming a model of said target system and assigning a value to each variable from said set satisfying all the constraints, wherein said target system is a system for employing said concrete solution in modeling the target system for use in control of a robotic arm in a mechanical system, wherein one or more of the variables correspond to control parameters of the mechanical system, and finding the concrete solution includes generating a command to control the mechanical system based on values of the one or more of the variables; and wherein the instructions cause the computer to find multiple concrete solutions based on the abstract solution, each of the concrete solutions comprising a specific assignment of the variables in the second set that is compatible with the given assignment of the variables in the first set; wherein the instructions causes the computer to eliminate the one or more values by applying arc consistency to a network of constraints. 23. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the solver is arranged to find multiple abstract solutions for different, respective assignments of the variables in the first set, and to find respective redundant constraints for the multiple abstract solutions. 24. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the solver is arranged to prune a solution space of the constraint satisfaction problem so as to eliminate one or more of the assignments of the variables in the first set. 25. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the solver is arranged to receive at least one additional constraint defining a concrete constraint satisfaction problem, and to apply both the respective redundant constraints and the at least one additional constraint to each of the multiple abstract solutions. 26. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the solver is arranged to iterate over respective domains of the variables in the second set that satisfy both the respective redundant constraints and the at least one additional constraint in order to find the concrete solution. 27. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the solver is arranged to eliminate at least one of the abstract solutions by determining with respect to the at least one of the abstract solutions that at least one of the respective domains of the variables in the second set that satisfy both the respective redundant constraints and the at least one additional constraint is empty. 28. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the solver is arranged to receive at least one additional constraint so as to define a concrete constraint satisfaction problem, and to apply both the redundant constraint and the at least one additional constraint to the abstract solution so as to find the concrete solution to the concrete constraint satisfaction problem; and wherein the solver is arranged to eliminate the abstract solution if the at least one additional constraint is incompatible with the redundant constraint. 29. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the target system has a structure and one or more inputs, and wherein the variables comprise first variables corresponding to the structure of the target system and second variables that are characteristic of the inputs to the target system, and wherein the solver is arranged to find the concrete solution so as to set values of the second variables that determine the inputs to be made to the target system; and wherein the solver is arranged to partition the variables so that the first variables are in the first set and the second variables are in the second set. 30. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the solver is arranged to determine the inputs so as to test the target system; wherein the target system comprises an electronic system comprising a processor, and wherein the solver is arranged to determine parameters of a command to be input to the processor responsively to the values of the second variables; and wherein the first variables define components of the electronic system, a configuration of the components, and one or more interactions among the components. 