The invention is a laboratory mill that allows small samples to be shaken, mixed, ground, homogenized or comminuted effectively within a small vial. The design is similar to a planetary mill but unlike those devices, neither axis of rotation is centered on the axis of the processing vessel. The design allows many vials to be processed at one time and even when the diameter of the vial is quite small, maintains the processing performance. The performance of the device when used as a comminuter is demonstrated showing that the device can comminute organic solids down to a median particle size of 1 micrometer with a narrow size distribution. Because the processing takes place within a vial, the mill does not require cleaning between samples which allows the application of the device in automated or high throughput systems. Since the action occurs in one plane, vials are able to be retained by a stationary plate above the vials and additionally makes the device amenable to automation of sample loading and unloading.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for processing materials comprising: a first location; a second location; and a third location, wherein each said first location, second, location and third location is not coincident with each of the other said locations and wherein a vessel is centered at said third location; at least one rotating means wherein said rotating means rotates said vessel around a first axis, said first axis having a first radius of rotation centered on said first location; and at least one additional rotating means wherein said additional rotating means rotates or counter-rotates said vessel around a second axis, said second axis having a second radius of rotation centered at said second location. 2. The device for processing materials of claim 1, wherein said rotating means rotates said vessel around said second axis, wherein said vessel has an axis and wherein said second axis is not coincident with said vessel axis. 3. The device for processing materials of claim 1, wherein said rotating means counter-rotates said vessel around said second axis, wherein said vessel has an axis and wherein said second axis is not coincident with said vessel axis. 4. The device for processing materials of claim 1, wherein said rotating means has an adjustable speed of rotation and wherein said additional rotating means has an adjustable speed of rotation. 5. The device for processing materials of claim 1, wherein said additional rotating means rotates about twice as fast as said rotating means. 6. The device for processing materials of claim 1, wherein at least one of said rotating means and said additional rotating means further comprises a means of controlling rotation speed. 7. The device for processing materials of claim 1, further comprising: a vessel(s) stability means, wherein said vessel(s) stability means stabilizes said vessel(s). 8. The device for processing materials of claim 7, wherein said vessel(s) stability means is a clamp, vial holder, or stationary retention plate. 9. The device for processing materials of claim 1, further comprising a heating means, wherein said heating means provides heating of materials within said vessel(s). 10. The device for processing materials of claim 1, further comprising a cooling means, wherein said cooling means provides cooling of materials within said vessel(s). 