A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece includes placing the workpiece into a chamber and spinning the workpiece. A rinsing fluid, such as water, is applied onto the workpiece through a first outlet in the chamber, with the rinsing fluid moving outwardly towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to rinse the workpiece. A drying fluid, such as an alcohol vapor, is applied onto the workpiece through the first outlet, with the drying fluid moving outwardly towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to dry the workpiece. The drying fluid advantageously follows a meniscus of the rinsing fluid across the workpiece surface. The rinsing fluid, or the drying fluid, or both fluids, may be applied near or at a central area of the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece, comprising: placing the workpiece into a chamber; spinning the workpiece about a spin axis; applying a rinsing fluid onto the workpiece from a first opening through a first wall of the chamber, and with a first opening fixed in place and substantially aligned on the spin axis, with the rinsing fluid moving outwardly towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to rinse the workpiece; applying a drying fluid onto the workpiece from the first opening, with the drying fluid moving outwardly towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to dry the workpiece. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising heating the rinsing fluid and/or the drying fluid. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the workpiece has a first side and a second side, and with the rinsing fluid and the drying fluid applied to the second side through a second opening in a second wall of the chamber. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the drying fluid follows a meniscus of the rinsing fluid across the workpiece surface. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising controlling the temperature of the rinsing fluid, or the drying fluid, or both. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising stopping the applying of the rinsing fluid before starting the applying of the drying fluid. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the drying fluid has a leading edge following substantially immediately behind a trailing edge of the rinsing fluid. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising regulating flow of the rinsing and drying fluids across the workpiece surface. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the rinsing fluid, or the drying fluid, or both fluids, are applied to a central area of the workpiece. 10. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece, comprising: placing the workpiece into a chamber; spinning the workpiece; applying a rinsing fluid onto the workpiece through a first outlet in the chamber, with the rinsing fluid moving outwardly towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to rinse the workpiece; applying a drying fluid onto the workpiece through the first outlet, with the drying fluid moving outwardly towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to dry the workpiece; and with the workpiece is in a substantially horizontal orientation and wherein the rinsing fluid and the drying fluid are applied generally simultaneously to the up facing and down facing surfaces of the workpiece. 11. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece, comprising: placing the workpiece into a chamber; spinning the workpiece about a spin axis; applying rinsing fluid onto a first side of the workpiece from a first nozzle substantially aligned on the spin axis, with the rinsing fluid moving outwardly over the first side of workpiece towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to rinse the first side of the workpiece; applying rinsing fluid onto a second side of the workpiece from a second nozzle substantially aligned on the spin axis, with the rinsing fluid moving outwardly over the second side of the workpiece towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to rinse the second side of the workpiece; applying drying fluid onto the first side of the workpiece from the first nozzle, with the drying fluid moving outwardly over the first side of the workpiece towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to dry the first side of the workpiece; and applying drying fluid onto the second side of the workpiece from the second nozzle, with the drying fluid moving outwardly over the second side of the workpiece towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to dry the second side of the workpiece. 12. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece, comprising: placing the workpiece into a chamber formed by an upper rotor engaged with a lower rotor; spinning the workpiece about a spin axis; applying rinsing fluid onto an upper surface of the workpiece through an upper opening in the upper rotor, with the rinsing fluid moving outwardly towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to rinse the upper surface of the workpiece; and applying drying fluid onto the upper surface of the workpiece through the upper opening, with the drying fluid moving outwardly towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to dry the upper surface of the workpiece. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising: applying rinsing fluid onto a lower surface of the workpiece through a lower opening in the lower rotor, with the rinsing fluid moving outwardly towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to rinse the lower surface of the workpiece; and applying drying fluid onto the lower surface of the workpiece through the lower opening, with the drying fluid moving outwardly towards the edge of the workpiece via centrifugal force, to dry the lower surface of the workpiece. 14. The method of clam 13 wherein the upper and lower openings are substantially aligned on the spin axis. 15. The method of claim 12 further comprising removing rinsing fluid from the chamber through a plurality of drain openings adjacent to an outer diameter of the upper or lower rotor. 