A bead dispensing system is provided for delivering small amounts of substances onto substrates. The system can include, for example, a movable support structure having an array of spaced-apart projections depending from its lower side. An attraction source, such as a vacuum, magnetic, and/or electrostatic force, is operable at each projection end region to attract and retain one bead. The projection array can be aligned with an array of bead-receiving regions of a substrate, e.g., an array of spaced-apart wells of a micro-plate or card. In one embodiment, a plurality of reagent-carrying beads are picked up, retained at respective projection end regions, and moved to a location over a multi-well plate. The beads are then released in a fashion permitting each bead to land in a respective well. The system of the invention is particularly useful for fabricating arrays of reagents.
Claims It is claimed: 1. A system for channeling a plurality of submillimeter beads to desired locations on a substrate, comprising: an array of micro-bead supports, each support adapted to releasably hold from above, no more than one submillimeter bead at a time; a reagent plate comprising a plurality of reagent-supply locations disposed in an array having center-to-center spacing substantially the same as that of the micro-bead support array; a conduit assembly comprising a plurality of conduits disposed in a position under said micro-bead support array, said conduits having (i) large openings at their upper ends disposed in an array having a center-to-center pitch like that of the support array such that the large openings are generally alignable thereunder, and (ii) small openings at their lower ends; and a motor for moving the micro-bead support array back and forth from a position centered above the reagent plate to the position centered above the conduit assembly. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein each of said large openings has a diameter of less than about 6 mm, and each of said small openings has a diameter of less than about 0.6 mm. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said small openings are disposed in an array having a center-to-center pitch smaller than that of the large-opening array. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the center-to-center pitch of the small-opening array is reduced by a factor of at least about 3, as compared to that of the large-opening array. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the center-to-center pitch of the large-opening array is greater than about 4 mm, and the center-to-center pitch of the small-opening array is less than about 3 mm. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a parallelogram linkage assembly supporting said conduit assembly for reciprocal arcuate movement between a raised position and a lowered position. 7. The system of claim 6, further comprising (i) a carousel adapted for rotation about a central axis, said carousel (a) pivotally supporting said parallelogram linkage assembly for movement radially of the axis of rotation of the carousel, and (b) having a substrate holding area adjacent to said parallelogram linkage assembly; and (ii) a stationary rail extending along an inner region of said carousel and having a continuous bearing surface in mechanical communication with said parallelogram linkage system, said bearing surface having (a) a region disposed a first distance from said central axis and at a first vertical height, whereat said conduit array assumes said lowered position over said substrate holding area, and (b) a region disposed a second distance from said central axis, shorter than said first distance, and at a second vertical height, higher than said first vertical height whereat said conduit array assumes said raised position. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a micro-card having a plurality of wells disposed in an array alignable under said small-opening array. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said micro-card is provided with a pair of spaced-apart indexing holes, each being alignable with a respective indexing pin depending from a lower side of said conduit array; whereupon registering said indexing pins in said indexing holes substantially aligns said small-opening array with said micro-card well array. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a detection system having a field of view extending into each of said conduits, and adapted to sense the presence or absence of a bead on said substrate under each of said small openings. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said detection system includes a radiation source adapted to illuminate said substrate at locations below each of said small openings; and a plurality of elongated light-conductive fibers, each fiber having (i) one end disposed to receive light traveling up through a respective conduit, and (ii) a second end that communicates with a camera device. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the motor comprises a rotational motor. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the reagent-supply locations comprise wells in the reagent plate. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising ampules disposed in the wells. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the motor is adapted to move the micro-bead support any along an arcuate pathway. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the motor is adapted to move the micro-bead support array along a circular pathway. 17. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second motor adapted to raise and lower the micro-bead support array. 18. The system of claim 1, further comprising a pressure control source, wherein the micro-bead support array comprises a plurality of projections each comprising a lumen, and the pressure control source is in communication with the lumens to provide a reduced pressure in the lumens. 