An inkjet printer is provided having a printhead which has a plurality of printhead tiles arranged along the width of a media web, an ink distribution member adjacent the printhead, a media transporter for transporting the media web past the printhead, and a processor for processing a wallpaper pattern and controlling operation of the printhead to print the wallpaper pattern onto the media web to produce wallpaper. Each printhead tile has a plurality of ink ejection nozzles which each have an ink chamber in fluid communication with the distribution member, a lever arm for forcing ink from the chamber, a thermal bend actuator for distorting the lever arm and an electrode for receiving an electrical current that heats and expands the thermal bend actuator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An inkjet printer comprising: a printhead having a plurality of printhead tiles arranged along the width of a media web; an ink distribution member adjacent the printhead; a media transporter for transporting the media web past the printhead; and a processor for processing a pattern and controlling operation of the printhead to print the pattern onto the media web to produce patterned media, wherein each printhead tile has a plurality of ink ejection nozzles which each have an ink chamber in fluid communication with the distribution member, a lever arm for forcing ink from the chamber, a thermal bend actuator for distorting the lever arm and an electrode for receiving an electrical current that heats and expands the thermal bend actuator. 2. A printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead tiles are supported by the distribution member. 3. A printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein each printhead tile abuts an adjacent printhead tile. 4. A printer as claimed in claim 3, wherein each printhead tile has a stepped region. 5. A printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein each printhead tile is in electrical connection with a power supply and in data communication with the processor. 6. A printer as claimed in claim 1, comprising a printed web drying system. 7. A printer as claimed in claim 1, comprising a printing web cutter-slitter module. 8. A printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the media web is supplied from a self-threading media cartridge with integrated media web drive means. 