A loading system for the high speed loading of product in varying numbers comprising: an infeed conveyor having an infeed conveyor stop, a staging conveyor moving at a speed greater than the infeed conveyor and having a staging conveyor stop and a picking conveyor moving at or about the same speed as the staging conveyor and having a moveable picking conveyor stop. A photoelectric sensor or other similar counting device located in the region of the staging conveyor stop counts product as it moves from the infeed conveyor to the staging conveyor by counting the gaps between product units induced by the difference in the advancing speed of the infeed and the staging conveyors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A loading system for the high speed loading of product in varying numbers comprising: A) an infeed conveyor having a top surface, an input end and an output end and a vertically moveable transverse infeed conveyor stop located at the infeed conveyor output end and extending laterally and continuously across the full width of said infeed conveyor; B) a staging conveyor moving at a speed greater than the infeed conveyor and having an input end and an output end and a vertically moveable transverse staging conveyor stop located at the staging conveyor output end extending laterally and continuously across the full width of said staging conveyor; C) a picking conveyor moving at a slower speed than the staging conveyor and having an input end and an output end defining a length for the picking conveyor and a top surface; and D) a picking conveyor stop extending across the full width of said picking conveyor adjustable between the input end and the output end for stopping predetermined quantities of objects to be picked from the picking conveyor; E) a counting device located in the region of the infeed conveyor stop that counts product as it moves from the infeed conveyor to the staging conveyor by counting gaps between product units induced by the difference in the advancing speed of the infeed and the staging conveyors, all of said infeed, staging and picking conveyor top surfaces being in fixed horizontal alignment to permit transfer of product moving on said infeed, staging and picking conveyors to advance therebetween. 2. The loading system of claim 1 wherein said counting device is a photoelectric sensor. 3. The loading system of claim 1 wherein said transverse infeed conveyor stop and said transverse staging conveyor stop move upward to arrest the advancement of product advancing thereon and downward to permit the passage of product advancing on the infeed and staging conveyors. 4. The loading system of claim 1 wherein said picking conveyor stop is controllably moveable forward and backward in the direction of conveyor movement to arrest the advancement of product advancing thereon at any desired location along the Y direction of the picking conveyor--so that picking thereof may occur from said desired location. 