A system and methods for integrating laboratory instrumentation and applications to provide a unified control and coordination architecture under a common interface. The system may be adapted to a variety of different hardware and software components wherein the individual functionalities and input/output data types for each component are recognized and incorporated into a centralized control and monitoring system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for coordinated management of biological analysis, the system comprising: a client component configured to generate instructions in a first format relating to the operation of at least one biological analyzer, wherein the at least one biological analyzer does not recognize the first format; at least one analyzer component associated with the at least one biological analyzer configured to receive said instructions from the client component and translate the instructions into commands in a second format, different than the first, which is recognized by the biological analyzer thereby inducing operation of the biological analyzer; and a management component that maintains information comprising a logical location and operational parameters for the at least one biological analyzer wherein said information is made accessible to the client component and used by the client component to generate the instructions relating to the operation of the at least one biological analyzer, said management component capable of receiving additional information about a new biological analyzer having an associated analyzer component such that instructions relating to the operation of the new biological analyzer can be generated by the client component and communicated to the new biological analyzer so as to induce operation of the new biological analyzer. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the client component is capable of generating instructions relating to the operation of new biological analyzer without substantial modification by accessing the information maintained by the management component. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one biological analyzer comprises an application configured to conduct biological data analysis. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one biological analyzer comprises an instrument configured to conduct biological data analysis. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said instrument is selected from the group consisting of: thermal cyclers, sequence detection instruments, mass spectrometers, and electrophoresis instruments. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one biological analyzer comprises at least one robotic instrument configured to identify and physically manipulate at least one biological sample. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the central management component comprises: at least one directory configured to provide information to the client component as to the logical location and operational parameters of said at least one analyzer component such that the client component is able to generate instructions relating to the operation of the at least one biological analyzer by referencing the information provided by the at least one directory; at least one server component configured to populate the at least one directory with the operational parameters associated with a particular biological analyzer; and a messaging service configured provide a mechanism for communication between the at least one analyzer component and the client component such that the new biological analyzer can be configured for biological analysis by associating at least one of the analyzer components with said new biological analyzer and updating the at least one directory with information as to the logical location of the analyzer component. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the management component is configured to respond to requests by the client component for information about a requested biological analyzer providing a logical address for the at least one analyzer component associated with the requested biological analyzer such that the logical address serves as a mechanism to communicate with the at least one analyzer component via the messaging service. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the client component manages the operation of the at least one biological analyzer using a generic instruction set translated into appropriate biological analyzer-specific commands by the analyzer component. 10. The system of claim 7, wherein the client component communicates with the at least one biological analyzer using a generic communication set translated into appropriate biological analyzer-specific communications referencing the at least one directory. 11. The system of claim 7, wherein at least a portion of the information provided by the at least one directory is used by the client component to identify an available biological analyzer. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the information used by the client component to identify the available biological analyzer is selected from the group consisting of: biological analyzer type, biological analyzer groups, biological analyzer serial numbers, available biological analyzers and physical localities for biological analyzers. 13. The system of claim 7, wherein: the information contained in the at least one directory identifies each biological analyzer and includes a topic list under which messages are published by the at least one analyzer component associated with each biological analyzer; the messaging service provides a mechanism for the client component to register and receive messages published by the analyzer components that correspond to topics in the topic list selected by the client component; and the messaging service responds to publication requests for messages under an associated topic from an analyzer component sending the message to each of the at least one client components that registered to receive messages for that topic. 14. The system of claim 7, wherein the at least one directory is implemented using the Java Naming and Directory Interface and the messaging service is implemented using a Java Messaging service. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the at least one analyzer components provides for at least one of the following functionalities: control of the biological analyzer, receiving biological analyzer status information, receiving biological analyzer history information, transmitting information to the biological analyzer and receiving information from the biological analyzer. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the at least one analyzer components comprises software modules, including: a state model module configured to maintain a state of the biological analyzer within a corresponding state model, wherein the client component instructions cause transitions within the state model; and a translation module, which translates instructions received from the client component implementing commands for effectuating transitions within the state model and translates these instructions into commands recognized by the biological analyzer. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the parameters of said at least one biological analyzer comprise at least one of the following: container parameters, assay parameters, and information relating to manual control parameters for a selected biological analyzer. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the parameters of said at least one analyzer component comprise XML instructions. 19. A method for coordinated management of biological analysis, the method comprising: associating at least one analyzer component with at least one biological analyzer, wherein the at least one analyzer component translates received instructions in a first format not recognized by the at least one biological analyzer into commands in a second format recognized by the at least one biological analyzer thereby inducing operation of the biological analyzer; maintaining a directory providing information as to the logical location and operational parameters of each analyzer component allowing a client component to communicate with the at least one biological analyzer and implement at least one process to induce operation of the biological analyzer; and adding a new biological analyzer to a laboratory by associating at least one analyzer component with the newly added biological analyzer and updating the directory as to the logical location of the new biological analyzer such that the new biological analyzer is discoverable and accessible by the client component allowing the client component to communicate with the new biological analyzer to implement at least one process to induce operation of the new biological analyzer. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising communicating between the client component and the at least one analyzer component using generic instructions that are translated by the analyzer component into specific commands to direct the operation of the biological analyzer. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the analyzer component translation is provided by a translation protocol used to translate the generic instructions into specific commands that the biological analyzer is programmed to implement. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the biological analyzer generates instructions relating to the operation of new biological analyzer without substantial modification by accessing the information maintained by the directory. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein the biological analyzer comprises an application configured to conduct biological data analysis. 24. The method of claim 19, wherein the biological analyzer comprises an instrument configured to conduct biological data analysis. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said instrument is selected from the group consisting of: thermal cyclers, sequence detection instruments, mass spectrometers, and electrophoresis instruments. 26. The method of claim 19, wherein the at least one biological analyzer comprises at least one robotic instrument configured to identify and physically manipulate at least one biological sample. 27. The method of claim 19, further comprising maintaining at least one set of biological type information for each biological analyzer such that the client component can determine biological analyzer type parameters by accessing a server that maintains the biological type information. 28. The method of claim 19, further comprising resolving which biological analyzers are available and communicating this information to the client component. 29. The method of 19, further comprising: maintaining in the directory a list of topics under which messages are published by the at least one analyzer component associated with each biological analyzer; registering the client component with a messaging service such that the client component receives messages published by at least one analyzer component corresponding to topics selected by the client component; and transmitting messages for each topic to the messaging service so that the messages are disseminated to client components registered to receive messages under selected topics. 30. The method of claim 19, further comprising responding to a request by the client component for information about a requested biological analyzer with a response containing at least one logical location for at least one analyzer component associated with the requested biological analyzer so that the client component can access the requested biological analyzer. 31. The method of claim 19, further comprising responding to a request by the client component for information about a biological analyzer type with a response containing at least one logical location for at least one analyzer component associated with a logical location for a server containing biological analyzer type information for the requested biological analyzer type so that the client component can access the biological analyzer type information through a messaging service. 