High throughput screening of crystallization of a target material is accomplished by simultaneously introducing a solution of the target material into a plurality of chambers of a microfabricated fluidic device. The microfabricated fluidic device is then manipulated to vary the solution condition in the chambers, thereby simultaneously providing a large number of crystallization environments. Control over changed solution conditions may result from a variety of techniques, including but not limited to metering volumes of crystallizing agent into the chamber by volume exclusion, by entrapment of volumes of crystallizing agent determined by the dimensions of the microfabricated structure, or by cross-channel injection of sample and crystallizing agent into an array of junctions defined by intersecting orthogonal flow channels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for crystallizing a target material comprising: an elastomeric block including a microfabricated chamber configured to contain a volume of a solution of the target material; and a microfabricated flow channel in fluid communication with the chamber, the flow channel introducing a volume of a crystallizing agent into the chamber. 2. The crystallization system of claim 1 further comprising an isolation structure, the isolation structure configured to selectively isolate the chamber from the flow channel as the flow channel receives a volume of crystallizing agent, and then to place the chamber into contact with the flow channel to alter a solution condition within the chamber. 3. The crystallization system of claim 1 wherein the volume of crystallizing agent is determined by a dimension of the flow channel. 4. The crystallization system of claim 1 wherein the volume of crystallizing agent is determined by a length of the flow channel. 5. The crystallization system of claim 1 wherein the volume of crystallizing agent is determined by a width of the flow channel. 6. The crystallization system of claim 1 further comprising a control channel overlying the chamber and separated from the chamber by a membrane, the membrane deflectable into the chamber to exclude a calibrated volume of sample solution from the chamber, such that relaxation of the membrane draws the calibrated volume of the crystallizing agent into the chamber. 7. The crystallization system of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of first parallel flow channels in fluid communication with a target material; and a plurality of second parallel flow channels orthogonal to and intersecting the first flow channels to create a plurality of junctions, the second flow channels in fluid communication with a crystallizing agent such that an array of solution environments can be created at the junctions. 8. A system for crystallizing a target material comprising: an elastomeric block including a microfabricated chamber configured to contain a volume of a solution of the target material; and a crystallizing agent reservoir in fluid communication with the microfabricated chamber through a dialysis membrane, the dialysis membrane configured to prevent flow of the target material into the crystallizing agent reservoir. 9. The crystallization system of claim 8 wherein the crystallization reservoir is formed in a second elastomeric block. 10. The crystallization system of claim 8 wherein the dialysis membrane is present within the elastomeric block. 11. The crystallization system of claim 8 wherein the dialysis membrane comprises a polymer that is introduced between the chamber and the reservoir and then subjected to cross-linking. 12. The crystallization system of claim 8 further comprising an intermediate solution imposed between the chamber and the reservoir to mediate diffusion of crystallizing agent into the chamber. 13. The crystallization system of claim 12 further comprising a second dialysis membrane imposed between the intermediate solution and the reservoir. 