A robotic system for systematically moving about an area to be covered. The system includes at least one boundary marker (48) located along the outer edge of the area to be covered, a robot (40) with a navigation system (41) that navigates the robot (40) in generally straight, parallel lines from an initial location and turns the robot (40) when the robot (40) encounters one of the boundary markers (48), thereby to systematically move about the area to be covered. The sensor unit (43) senses proximity to one of the at least one boundary marker (48).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a movement system for moving the robot over a surface; at least one obstacle detection sensor; and, a unit in communication with the movement system and the at least one obstacle detection sensor, the unit configured for causing the movement system to move the robot in accordance with a first scanning pattern, and move the robot in accordance with a second scanning pattern while following an obstacle along a path corresponding to at least a portion of the periphery of the obstacle in response to the at least one obstacle detection sensor detecting the obstacle. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the first scanning pattern is the same as the second scanning pattern. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein the first scanning pattern is different from the second scanning pattern. 4. The robot of claim 2, wherein the first scanning pattern and the second scanning pattern include the robot traveling in substantially straight parallel lines. 5. The robot of claim 4, wherein the substantially straight parallel lines are substantially free of repetition. 6. A robot comprising: a movement system for moving the robot over a surface; at least one obstacle detection sensor; and, a unit in communication with the movement system and the at least one obstacle detection sensor, the unit configured for causing the movement system to move the robot in accordance with a predetermined scanning pattern, while following an obstacle along a path corresponding to at least a portion of the periphery of the obstacle in response to the at least one obstacle detection sensor detecting the obstacle. 7. The robot of claim 6, wherein the predetermined scanning pattern includes the robot traveling in substantially straight parallel lines. 8. The robot of claim 7, wherein the substantially straight parallel lines are substantially free of repetition. 