The present invention comprises systems and methods for providing electronic quality control in a process for applying a polyurethane to a substrate. One aspect of the present invention includes a computer-implemented method for providing electronic quality control during manufacturing of a polyurethane coated article. The method can include providing a user interface for a user to input at least one operating characteristic associated with a process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article. Furthermore, the method can include receiving a selection of at least one operating characteristic from the user, and receiving at least one condition associated with the operating characteristic. Moreover, the method can include monitoring a process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article, wherein a change to the operating characteristic can be detected. The method can also include generating a notification if the at least one condition is detected.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A computer-implemented method for providing electronic quality control during manufacturing of a polyurethane coated article, comprising: providing a user interface for a user to input at least two operating characteristics associated with a process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article; receiving a selection of the at least two operating characteristics from the user; receiving at least one condition associated with each selected operating characteristic; monitoring a process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article, wherein a change to either of the selected operating characteristics can be detected; and generating a notification when the at least one condition associated with either of said two selected operating characteristics is detected, wherein one of said at least two operating characteristics is fluid pressures of two or more polyurethane reactants of a fluid proportioning system associated with the process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article and the other of said at least two operating characteristics is surface temperature of a work piece substrate to be coated. 2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein providing a user interface for a user to input at least two operating characteristic associated with a process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article comprises providing a computer program to receive user input for operating a process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article. 3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein an additional operating characteristic is selected from fluid pressure, fluid temperature, relative humidity, ambient humidity, dew point, ambient temperature, air volume, air pressure, component fluid temperatures, component fluid pressures, operating status, output rate of mixed material, output rate of a component material, position of an arm associated with a spray robot, position of a spray gun or device associated with a spray robot, position of a turntable/platform, rotation rate of a turntable/platform, stroke count, or inlet air pressure. 4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving at least one condition associated with one of the at least two selected operating characteristics comprises at least one of the following: receiving a value for the operating condition, receiving a setting for the operating condition, receiving a range of values for the operating characteristic, receiving an upper limit value for the operating characteristic, receiving a lower limit value for the operating characteristic, receiving a percentage change over time value associated with the operating characteristic, receiving a percentage associated with the operating characteristic, and receiving a condition associated with operation of a device. 5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the process comprises at least one of the following: spraying a polyurethane coating on a work piece, spraying a polyurethane coating on a material, coating a shell with a polyurethane, coating a shell with at least one flow provided by a spray gun, coating a shell with at least one flow provided by a spray robot, and spraying at least one material on another material. 6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating a notification comprises at least one of the following: activating an alarm, activating a light, activating a set of lights, transmitting a message to a remote communication device, transmitting an e-mail, and displaying a message on a display. 7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: storing data during monitoring of the process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article, wherein the data includes information associated with the at least two selected operating characteristics. 8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the data is stored in at least one of the following: an electronic quality control (EQC) database, a database, memory, and a data storage device. 9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: displaying data during monitoring of the process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article. 10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the data is displayed on at least one of the following: a display, a light, a set of lights, a display monitor, a remote communication device, a smart phone, an e-mail device, and a personal digital assistant (PDA). 11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to the notification, receiving an instruction to correct the at least one condition. 12. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising: identifying at least one trend associated with the data during monitoring the process; and displaying the at least one trend with respect to data associated with the at least one condition. 13. An electronic quality control system for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article, comprising: a user interface adapted to: receive a user input of at least two operating characteristics associated with a process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article; and a processor adapted to: receive a selection of at least two operating characteristics from the user, wherein one of said at least two operating characteristics is fluid pressures of two or more polyurethane reactants of a fluid proportioning system associated with manufacturing the polyurethane coated article and the other of said at least two operating characteristics is surface temperature of a work piece substrate; receive at least one condition associated with each operating characteristic; monitor a process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article, wherein a change to each operating characteristic can be detected; and generate a notification when at least one condition is detected. 14. The electronic quality control system of claim 13, wherein the user interface comprises a computer program adapted to receive user input for monitoring and controlling a process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article. 15. The electronic quality control system of claim 13, wherein an additional operating characteristic is selected from fluid pressure, fluid temperature, relative humidity, ambient humidity, dew point, ambient temperature, air volume, air pressure, component fluid temperatures, component fluid pressures, operating status, output rate of mixed material, output rate of a component material, position of an arm associated with a spray robot, position of a spray gun or device associated with a spray robot, position of a turntable/platform, rotation rate of a turntable/platform, stroke count, air flow, or inlet air pressure. 16. The electronic quality control system of claim 13, wherein to receive at least one condition associated with one of the at least two selected operating characteristics comprises at least one of the following: receiving a value for the operating condition, receiving a setting for the operating condition, receiving a range of values for the operating characteristic, receiving an upper limit value for the operating characteristic, receiving a lower limit value for the operating characteristic, receiving a percentage change over time value associated with the operating characteristic, receiving a percentage associated with the operating characteristic, and receiving a condition associated with operation of a device. 17. The electronic quality control system of claim 13, wherein the process comprises at least one of the following: spraying a polyurethane coating on a work piece, spraying a polyurethane coating on a material, coating a shell with a polyurethane, coating a shell with at least one flow provided by a spray gun, coating a shell with at least one flow provided by a spray robot, and spraying at least one material on another material. 18. The electronic quality control system of claim 13, wherein generate a notification comprises at least one of the following: activating an alarm, activating a light, activating a set of lights, transmitting a message to a remote communication device, transmitting an e-mail, and displaying a message on a display. 19. The electronic quality control system of claim 13, wherein the processor is further adapted to: store data during monitoring the process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article, wherein the data includes information associated with the at least two selected operating characteristics. 20. The electronic quality control system of claim 19, wherein the data is stored in at least one of the following: an electronic quality control (EQC) database, a database, memory, and a data storage device. 21. The electronic quality control system of claim 13, wherein the processor is further adapted to: display data during monitoring the process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article. 22. The electronic quality control system of claim 21, wherein the data is displayed on at least one of the following: a display, a light, a set of lights, a display monitor, a remote communication device, a smart phone, an e-mail device, and a personal digital assistant (PDA). 23. The electronic quality control system of claim 13, wherein the processor is further adapted to: in response to the notification, receive an instruction to correct the at least one condition. 24. The electronic quality control system of claim 19, wherein the processor is further adapted to: identify at least one trend associated with the data during monitoring the process; and display the at least one trend. 25. A computer-implemented method for providing electronic quality control during manufacturing of a polyurethane coated article with a spray robot, comprising: providing a user interface for a user to input at least two operating characteristic associated with a process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article, wherein the user interface comprises a computer program to receive the user input; receiving a selection of at least two operating characteristic from the user; receiving at least one condition associated with each selected operating characteristic; monitoring a process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article, wherein a change to each selected operating characteristic can be detected; storing data during monitoring of the process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article, wherein the data includes information associated with each selected operating characteristic; displaying the data associated with each selected operating characteristic during monitoring the process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article; and generating a notification when at least one condition is detected, wherein one of said at least two operating characteristic is fluid pressures for two or more polyurethane reactants of a fluid proportioning system associated with manufacturing the polyurethane coated article and the other of said at least two selected operating characteristics is surface temperature of a work piece substrate. 26. The computer-implemented method of claim 25, wherein an operating characteristic is selected from fluid pressure, fluid temperature, relative humidity, ambient humidity, dew point, ambient temperature, air volume, air pressure, component fluid temperatures, component fluid pressures, operating status, output rate of mixed material, output rate of a component material, position of an arm associated with a spray robot, position of a spray gun or device associated with a spray robot, position of a turntable/platform, rotation rate of a turntable/platform, stroke count, air flow, or inlet air pressure. 27. The computer-implemented method of claim 25, wherein receiving at least one condition associated with one of the at least two selected operating characteristics comprises at least one of the following: receiving a value for the operating condition, receiving a setting for the operating condition, receiving a range of values for the operating characteristic, receiving an upper limit value for the operating characteristic, receiving a lower limit value for the operating characteristic, receiving a percentage change over time value associated with the operating characteristic, receiving a percentage associated with the operating characteristic, and receiving a condition associated with operation of a device. 28. The computer-implemented method of claim 25, wherein the process comprises at least one of the following: spraying a polyurethane coating on a work piece, spraying a polyurethane coating on a material, coating a shell with a polyurethane, coating a shell with at least one flow provided by a spray gun, coating a shell with at least one flow provided by a spray robot, and spraying at least one material on another material. 29. The computer-implemented method of claim 25, wherein generating a notification comprises at least one of the following: activating an alarm, activating a light, activating a set of lights, transmitting a message to a remote communication device, transmitting an e-mail, and displaying a message on a display. 30. The computer-implemented method of claim 25, wherein the data associated with the at least two selected operating characteristics is stored in at least one of the following: an electronic quality control (EQC) database, a database, memory, and a data storage device. 31. The computer-implemented method of claim 25, wherein the data associated with the at least two selected operating characteristics is displayed on at least one of the following: a display, a light, a set of lights, a display monitor, a remote communication device, a smart phone, an e-mail device, and a personal digital assistant (PDA). 32. The computer-implemented method of claim 25, further comprising: in response to the notification, receiving an instruction to correct the at least one condition. 33. The computer-implemented method of claim 25, further comprising: identifying at least one trend associated with the data associated with the at least two selected operating characteristic during monitoring the process; and displaying the at least one trend. 34. A computer-implemented method for providing electronic quality control during manufacturing of a polyurethane coated article comprising: selecting from a user interface two operating characteristics associated with a process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article, wherein one of said two operating characteristics is fluid pressures of a polyol reactant and an isocyanate reactant of a fluid proportioning pump associated with the process for manufacturing a polyurethane coated article and the other of said two operating characteristics is surface temperature of a work piece substrate to be coated; separately providing a polyol reactant and an isocyanate reactant to a multi-component proportioning pump; separately monitoring the pressure of the isocyanate reactant and the polyol reactant in the proportioning pump; monitoring the surface temperature of the substrate; separately feeding the polyol reactant and the isocyanate reactant from the proportioning pump to a sprayer; mixing the polyol reactant and the isocyanate reactant in the sprayer to form a polyurethane reactant mixture; spraying the polyurethane reactant mixture onto the substrate; and generating a notification when the pressure of the isocyanate reactant corresponds to a selected condition, the pressure of the polyol reactant corresponds to a selected condition or the surface temperature of the substrate corresponds to a selected condition. 35. The computer-implemented method of claim 34 further comprising: monitoring the ambient temperature and relative humidity adjacent the substrate; and generating a notification when the relative humidity or ambient temperature corresponds to a selected condition. 36. The computer-implemented method of claim 34 further comprising: monitoring the dew point adjacent the substrate; and generating a notification when the dew point corresponds to a selected condition. 37. The computer-implemented method of claim 35 further comprising: monitoring an output rate of the polyurethane reactant mixture from the sprayer; and generating a notification when the output rate corresponds to a selected condition. 38. The computer-implemented method of claim 37, wherein the notification comprises a set of lights. 39. The computer-implemented method of claim 37 further comprising: providing air to the sprayer to spray the polyurethane reactant mixture therefrom; monitoring the air pressure and air volume provided to the sprayer; and generating a notification when the air pressure or air volume provided to the sprayer corresponds to a selected condition. 40. The computer-implemented method of claim 39 further comprising: separately monitoring the output rate of the polyol reactant and the isocyanate reactant; and generating a notification when the output rate of either the polyol reactant or the isocyanate reactant corresponds to a selected condition. 41. The computer-implemented method of claim 40 further comprising: separately monitoring the temperature of the polyol reactant and the isocyanate reactant; and generating a notification when the temperature of either the polyol reactant or the isocyanate reactant corresponds to a selected condition. 42. The computer-implemented method of claim 41 further comprising: rotating the substrate on a turntable/platform; monitoring the position and rate of rotation of the turntable/platform; and generating a notification when the position or rate of rotation of the turntable/platform corresponds to a selected condition. 