Apparatus and methods for high throughput mass spectrometry are provided. The methods involve sample preparation in an off-line parallel purification system. Such methods include but are not limited to the use of an appropriate buffer when generating samples or the use of a solid support for tagged components. The samples prepared in this way do not then need to be column separated. The apparatus provided includes a cell growth plate for growing cells and generating products and/or reactants, an off-line parallel purification system, a mass spectrometer, and an automatic sampler that transports samples and injects them into the mass spectrometer of the apparatus. The methods and apparatus described are used, for example, in screening enzyme reaction pathways.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of performing high throughput mass spectrometry screening, the method comprising: (i) providing cells that have been transfected or transformed with one or more members of a library of related genes; (ii) growing the cells in vitro in a biological matrix to express said members of the library of related genes; (iii) separating the cells or cell debris thereof from one or more component of interest using centrifugation or filtration in a parallel fashion to provide samples comprising the component(s) of interest; (iv) performing flow-injection analysis using electrospray tandem mass spectrometry on the samples from step (iii) to obtain mass-to-charge ratio data for the component of interest, wherein the component(s) of interest is selected from the group consisting of an inorganic ion, a secondary metabolite, a protein binding molecule, a carbohydrate, a carbohydrate binding molecule, an enzyme, an enzyme substrate, a product of an enzyme catalyzed reaction, a nucleic acid, and a product of a nucleic acid catalyzed reaction, and wherein the component(s) of interest has not undergone chromatographic separation prior to step (iv). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least about 100 samples are screened for presence of the one or more component of interest in less than an hour. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein step (iv) comprises performing parent ion mass spectrometry on a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer which comprises: (a) scanning the one or more component of interest in a first quadrupole; (b) fragmenting the one or more component of interest in a second quadrupole by collision induced dissociation; and, (c) scanning a third quadrupole at a specified mass. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (iii) comprises using centrifugation. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein step (iii) comprises using filtration. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein an automatic sampler transports samples from step (iii) to the mass spectrometer for injection and analysis at a rate of at least 100 samples an hour. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are lysed prior to step (iii). 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are permeabilized prior to step (iii). 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the component(s) of interest is obtained from cell supernatant. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the component(s) of interest is a product of an enzymatic reaction. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are bacterial cells. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are eukaryotic cells. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein step (iii) is performed in a volatile buffer, a buffer that reduces concentration of ionic species, or an organic solvent. 14. The method of claim 10, further comprising simultaneously quantifying the amount of the product(s) of the enzymatic reaction and an enzyme substrate. 15. A method of performing high throughput mass spectrometry screening, the method comprising: (i) providing cells that have been transfected or transformed with one or more members of a library of related enzyme encoding genes; (ii) growing the cells in vitro in a biological matrix to express said members of the library of related enzyme encoding genes; (iii) contacting the cells with one or more enzyme substrates to initiate formation of one or more products of an enzymatic reaction; (iv) separating the cells or cell debris thereof from the product of the enzymatic reaction and/or enzyme substrate using centrifugation or filtration in a parallel fashion to provide samples comprising the product(s) of the enzymatic reaction and/or enzyme substrate(s); and (v) performing flow-injection analysis using electrospray tandem mass spectrometry on the samples from step (iv) to obtain mass-to-charge ratio data for the product(s) of the enzymatic reaction and/or enzyme substrate(s), wherein the product(s) of the enzymatic reaction and enzyme substrate(s) have not undergone chromatographic separation prior to step (v). 16. The method of claim 15, wherein at least about 100 samples are screened for presence of the product(s) of an enzymatic reaction or enzyme substrate(s) in less than an hour. 17. The method of claim 15, further comprising simultaneously quantifying the amount of the product(s) of an enzyme reaction and the enzyme substrate(s). 18. The method of claim 15, wherein step (v) comprises performing parent ion mass spectrometry on a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer which comprises: (a) scanning the product(s) of the enzymatic reaction and/or enzyme substrate in a first quadrupole; (b) fragmenting the product(s) of the enzymatic reaction and/or enzyme substrate in a second quadrupole by collision induced dissociation; and, (c) scanning a third quadrupole at a specified mass. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein an automatic sampler transports the samples from step (iv) to the mass spectrometer for injection and analysis at a rate of at least 100 samples an hour. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein the cells in step (iii) are lysed cells. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein the cells in step (iii) are permeabilized cells. 22. The method of claim 15, wherein the cells are bacterial cells. 23. The method of claim 15, wherein the cells are eukaryotic cells. 24. The method of claim 15, wherein step (iv) comprises using centrifugation. 25. The method of claim 15, wherein step (iv) comprises using filtration. 26. The method of claim 15, wherein step (iv) is performed in a volatile buffer, a buffer than reduces concentration of ionic species, or an organic solvent. 