An installation for powder coating articles, in particular vehicle bodies, comprises a coating booth, in which a plurality of application devices for the powder coating may be arranged. The articles to be coated are located during the coating process on a rotating rotary stand. Application devices located in various angular positions relative to the axis of the rotary stand may be charged with powder coatings of different colours. A collecting hopper is located at the bottom of the coating booth, the outlet opening of which collecting hopper may be brought as desired into connection with various recovery devices for powder overspray. To coat articles of different colours, the application devices charged with powder coating of the appropriate colour are activated in each case and the recovery device which collects the powder of the corresponding colour is brought into connection with the outlet opening of the collecting hopper.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An installation for powder coating of articles, the installation comprising: a) a coating booth, in which the articles may be arranged during the coating process, wherein the coating booth has walls and a bottom; b) a plurality of application devices for the powder coating, which may be arranged in the coating booth and which may act on the articles located therein; c) a sole collecting hopper arranged at the bottom of the coating booth and comprising an outlet opening; d) a recovery device for powder overspray, which in turn comprises: da) a collecting vessel for recovered powder coating; db) a separating device; and, dc) an extractor fan, which sucks the powder coating collecting in the sole collecting hopper through the outlet opening of the sole collecting hopper into the separating device; e) a rotary stand arranged in the coating booth, to which the articles may be attached and which may be rotated about a fixed position and about a substantially vertical axis; f) at least two application devices arranged in at least two different angular positions relative to the vertical axis of the rotary stand, wherein each of the application devices are chargable with a powder coating of a particular colour, and further wherein each angular position corresponds to a different powder coating colour; and, g) a plurality of recovery devices for powder of different colours is provided, which may be brought as desired into connection with the outlet opening of the sole collecting hopper when the application device of the corresponding colour is in use. 2. An installation according to claim 1, characterised in that a cleaning device is provided, with which powder coating may be detached from the walls of the coating booth, and in that a collecting device for waste powder is provided which may be brought into connection with the outlet opening of the sole collecting hopper while the cleaning device is active. 3. An installation according to claim 2, characterised in that the cleaning device is a blowing device. 4. An installation according to claim 3, characterised in that the blowing device comprises a tube displaceable in an axial direction of the blowing device and rotatable about its axis. 5. An installation according to claim 4, characterised in that a blowing arm swivellable about an axis perpendicular to the axis of the tube is attached to an end of the tube. 6. An installation according to claim 1, characterised in that a flange surrounding the outlet opening is provided at a lower end of the sole collecting hopper, and in that each recovery device and optionally the collecting device for waste powder comprises a suction discharge pipe, which may be moved to and fro between a first position, in which its suction opening is closed by the flange, and a second position, in which its suction opening communicates with the outlet opening of the sole collecting hopper. 7. An installation according to claim 1, in which a conveying system is provided with which the articles may be brought into the coating booth and out of the coating booth, characterised in that the conveying system comprises a shuttle conveyor, which is in a position to receive from another part of the conveying system at least one article in a first position outside the coating booth and to bring this article into a second position inside the coating booth. 8. An installation according to claim 7, characterised in that the shuttle conveyor comprises a projecting extension arm, which projects into the coating booth in the second position. 9. An installation according to claim 8, characterised in that the rotary stand is arranged at the end area of an extension arm. 10. An installation according to claim 7, characterised in that the shuttle conveyor is in a position to bring the article, of which there is at least one, back from its second position inside the coating booth into its first position on the other part of the conveying system. 11. An installation according to claim 7, characterised in that a second shuttle conveyor is provided, which is in a position to receive the article, of which there is at least one, in the second position thereof inside the coating booth and to transfer it to a further part of the conveying system in a third position outside the coating booth. 12. An installation for powder coating an article, the installation comprising: a coating booth including walls and a bottom; a collecting hopper disposed about the bottom of the coating booth and comprising an outlet opening; a collecting device for waste powder, the collecting device being capable of being connected to the outlet opening of the collecting hopper; a plurality of recovery devices for powder overspray, each of the plurality of recovery devices including a collecting vessel for recovered powder coating, a separating device, and an extractor fan, wherein the extractor fan moves the powder coating collecting in the collecting hopper through the outlet opening of the collecting hopper and into the separating device; a rotary stand disposed within the coating booth, to which the article may be attached and which may be rotated about a fixed position and a substantially vertical axis within the coating booth; at least two application devices for the powder coating being disposed in at least two different angular positions relative to the axis of the rotary stand, each of the at least two application devices are chargable with a powder coating of a particular colour and each angular position corresponds to a different powder coating colour; and, a flange operably connecting the outlet opening of the collecting hopper with the plurality of recovery devices wherein the flange facilitates an exclusive connection between one of the plurality of recovery devices and the outlet opening of the collecting hopper. 13. The installation of claim 12 further comprising: a cleaning device for detaching coated powder from the walls of the coating booth; the collecting device for the waste powder being connected to the outlet opening of the collecting hopper during operation of the cleaning device. 14. The installation of claim 13 wherein the cleaning device is a blowing device. 15. The installation of claim 14 wherein the blowing device comprises a tube displaceable in an axial direction of the blowing device and rotatable about its axis. 16. The installation of claim 15 further comprising: a blowing arm swivellable about an axis perpendicular to the axis of the tube and attached to an end of the tube. 17. The installation of claim 12 further comprising: a suction discharge pipe connected to each recovery device, wherein the flange facilitates an exclusive connection between one of the plurality of recovery devices and the outlet opening of the collecting hopper, the flange and the suction discharge pipe of each of the plurality of recovery devices being capable of movement there between such that only one of the plurality of recovery devices being communicably attached to the collecting hopper. 18. The installation of claim 12 further comprising: a conveying system including a shuttle conveyor having a first position outside the coating booth and a second position inside the coating booth wherein articles are moved from the first position to the second position. 19. The installation of claim 18, wherein the shuttle conveyor includes a projecting extension arm that projects into the coating booth in the second position. 20. The installation of claim 19, wherein the rotary stand is arranged at the end area of the extension arm. 21. The installation of claim 18 wherein articles are moved from the second position to outside the coating booth. 22. The installation of claim 18 further comprising: a second shuttle conveyor receives the article from the first shuttle conveyor. 23. The installation of claim 12 wherein the outlet opening of the collecting hopper includes a plurality of openings and each of the plurality of openings exclusively corresponding to one of the plurality of collection devices. 