An industrial robot that uses a simulated force vector to allow a work piece held by the robot end effector to be mated with a work piece whose location and orientation is not precisely known to the robot. When the end effector makes contact with the location and orientation in which the other work piece is held the robot provides a velocity command to minimize the force of the contact and also provides a search pattern in all directions and orientations to cause the end effector to bring the work piece it is holding in contact with the other work piece. The search pattern and the velocity command are continued until the two work pieces mate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for operating an industrial robot that has an end effector for holding a first work piece to be mated to a second work piece held at a location and orientation not precisely known to said robot, and a predetermined number of articulated joints, each joint having its own actuation device and motion measurement device comprising: a computing device having therein program code usable by said computing device, said program code comprising: code configured to superimpose on a force measurement from said robot at least one force vector that subjects said end effector to a force that causes said end effector to move said first work piece towards said location and orientation in which said second work piece is held. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said program code further comprises code configured to provide a velocity command for driving each of said actuation devices to minimize the force upon contact of said first and second work pieces. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said program code further comprises code configured to use position control before said velocity command is provided to bring said first work piece to a starting point for assembly with said second work piece. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said program code further comprises code configured to disable said position control after said velocity command is provided. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein said program code further comprises code configured to provide a signal for driving each of said predetermined number of actuation devices and when said end effector makes contact with said location and orientation in which said second work piece is held superimposing on said driving signal a search velocity pattern in at least two directions and orientations that makes mating of said work pieces possible to cause said end effector to bring said first work piece in contact with said second work piece. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said program code further comprises code configured to continue said superimposed search velocity pattern after said first and second work pieces first come into contact until said first and second work pieces mate. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein said program code further comprises code configured to continue said force vector when said first and second work pieces come into contact to aid the mating of the work pieces. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein said program code further comprises code configured to use position control to bring said first work piece to a starting point prior to superimposing said at least one force vector. 