A battery powered sensing device for diagnosing a processing system and method for using the same are provided. The support platform generally has physical characteristics, such as size, profile height, mass, flexibility and/or strength, substantially similar to those of the substrates that are to be processed in the processing system, so the sensor device can be transferred through the processing system in a manner similar to the manner in which production substrates are transferred through the processing system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for obtaining information from within a processing system, the apparatus comprising: a support platform adapted for robotic transfer between two of a plurality of chambers inside the processing system; at least one electro-optical sensor disposed on the support platform for obtaining one of position or optical information relating to a target inside the processing system; a transmitter coupled to the support platform and adapted to provide a signal indicative of information obtained by the at least one electro-optical sensor; and a rechargeable battery coupled to the support platform and to the at least one electro-optical sensor. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one electro-optical sensor is a micro-machined part integrated with the support platform. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one electro-optical sensor is one of a part of a ceramic chip carrier or a surface-mount integrated circuit chip. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one electro-optical sensor is configured to obtain position information comprising at least one of distance, direction, or angle of inclination relating to the target. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the target is inside one of the plurality of chambers. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the target is a shower head. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the at least one electro-optical sensor is configured to obtain position information relating to one of a distance, direction, or an angle of inclination with respect to the shower head. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the target is an optical sensor system. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the target is a substrate edge detection sensor system. 10. A method of obtaining information from within a processing system, the method comprising: providing a support platform adapted for robotic transfer between two of a plurality of chambers inside the processing system; providing at least one electro-optical sensor on the surface of the support platform; obtaining one of position or optical information relating to a target inside the processing chamber using the at least one electro-optical sensor; providing a transmitter for sending a signal indicative of information obtained by the at least one electro-optical sensor; and coupling a rechargeable battery to the support platform and to the at least one electro-optical sensor. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: arranging a plurality of electro-optical sensors at a sufficient number of locations on the surface of the support platform to obtain position information of the target, the position information being one of distance, direction, or angle of inclination with respect to the target. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: providing the at least one electro-optical sensor as a micro-machined part integrated with the support platform. 13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: providing the at least one electro-optical sensor as one of a part of ceramic chip carrier or a surface-mount integrated circuit chip. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the position information comprises one of distance, direction, or angle of inclination with respect to the target. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of chambers comprise a load lock chamber, a central transfer chamber, a cool down chamber, a deposition chamber, an etch chamber or a photolithography chamber. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein the target is a shower head. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: obtaining position information relating to one of a distance, direction, or an angle of inclination with respect to the shower head. 18. The method of claim 10, wherein the target is a substrate edge detection system. 19. The method of claim 10, further comprising processing a substrate in the processing system based on the signal. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein processing the substrate comprises at least one of physical vapor deposition (PVD), chemical vapor deposition (CVD), or etching. 21. A method of obtaining information from within a processing system, the method comprising: providing a support platform adapted for robotic transfer between a central transfer chamber and a vacuum processing chamber of the processing system, the vacuum processing chamber being one of a deposition chamber or an etch chamber; providing at least one electro-optical sensor on the support platform, the electro-optical sensor being one of micro-machined part integrated with the support platform, a part of a ceramic chip carrier, or a surface-mount integrated circuit chip; obtaining one of position or optical information relating to a target inside the vacuum processing chamber using the at least one electro-optical sensor, the position information being one of a distance, direction or an angle of inclination; providing a transmitter for sending a signal indicative of the information obtained by the at least one electro-optical sensor; and coupling a rechargeable battery to the support platform and the electro-optical sensor. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the target is one of a shower head or a substrate edge detection sensor system. 23. The method of claim 21, further comprising processing a substrate in the processing system based on the signal. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein processing the substrate comprises at least one of physical vapor deposition (PVD), chemical vapor deposition (CVD), or etching. 