A high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimen is disclosed. The invention employs high-precision motorized metallographic polishing, viewing and computer controlled digital imaging of microstructure sections of a pre-selected pattern for 3-D microstructure reconstruction. The microstructure specimens are transferred throughout by a robotic manipulator arm, which provides greater precision and speed and serial-sectioning process control software provides control. The 3-D reconstruction of the invention can be analyzed in real time and can be accomplished in a matter of hours.
Claims We claim: 1. A high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens comprising the steps of: polishing selected serial microstructure sections of said microstructure specimen using a high-precision high speed and high repeatability motorized metallographic polishing unit, measuring the vertical distance between said selected serial microstructure specimens; preparing said microstructure specimen from said polishing step for microscopic viewing and imaging; viewing of said microstructure specimen from said preparing step; digital imaging of said microstructure specimen for 3-D microstructure specimen using optical microscopy for 3-D microstructure specimen reconstruction using data from said measuring step and 3-D microstructure volume rendering software providing real-time 3-D microstructure software data of said microstructure specimen; manipulating said microstructure specimen through said polishing, preparing, viewing and imaging steps using a robotic manipulator arm; controlling said polishing, preparing, viewing and imaging steps using serial-sectioning process control software including selecting the number of microstructure sections acquired from said microstructure specimen; and repeating said polishing, preparing and viewing and imaging steps until a pre selected number of microstructure sections from said microstructure specimen have been acquired. 2. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 1 further comprising the step of, after said polishing step, preventing scratching and contamination of said microstructure specimen. 3. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 2 wherein said preventing step further comprises preventing scratching and contamination of said microstructure specimen by collecting material removed by said metallographic polishing unit from re-contaminating said microstructure specimen during rotation using a wiping cloth. 4. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 3 wherein said preventing step further comprises preventing scratching and contamination of said microstructure specimen by applying a lubricant. 5. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 1 wherein said polishing step further comprises the steps of: computer controlled microstructure specimen rotating; and computer controlled microstructure specimen securing. 6. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 1 wherein said polishing step further comprises fine polishing selected microstructure sections. 7. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 1 wherein said polishing step further comprises rough polishing selected microstructure sections. 8. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 1 wherein said preparing step further comprises the steps of: automated cleaning of said microstructure specimen from said polishing step; automated drying of said microstructure specimen from said cleaning step. 9. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 8 wherein said automated cleaning step further comprises automated ultrasonic cleaning of said microstructure specimen from said polishing step. 10. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 8 wherein said automated drying step further comprises automated drying using a stream of compressed nitrogen gas. 11. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 1 further comprising the step of point-by-point mapping of crystallographic orientations of various regions of said polished specimen using a real-time x-ray camera. 12. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 1 wherein said microscopic viewing step further comprises the step of controlling x-y planar position of said microstructure specimen. 13. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 1 wherein said digital imaging step further comprises the step of controlling digital imaging in a pre-specified pattern whereby an entire surface or edges of the specimen are imaged. 14. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 1 wherein said digital imaging step further comprises the step of creating large images from multiple overlapping fields of view using computer volume rendering software. 15. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 1 wherein said digital imaging step further comprises the step of specifying regions-of-interest in said microstructure specimen. 16. The high speed, high precision, high repeatability method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens of claim 1 wherein said digital imaging step further comprises digital imaging of said microstructure specimen using dark-field optical microscopy. 17. A high speed, high precision, high repeatability serial sectioning method for 3-D reconstruction of microstructure specimens comprising the steps of: polishing selected microstructure sections of said microstructure specimen using a three-plane polishing procedure comprising the steps of: aligning a sectioning plane by a fast Fourier transform cross-correlation of edge-most pixels with references faces; comparing microstructural features on extreme edges of a sectioning face with corresponding features on said reference face using fast Fourier transform based cross-correlation techniques, thereby establishing four points where section planes intercept references faces; constructing a three-dimensional model inside a computer with sectioning plane in its proper place; and updating said three-dimensional model as each new section plane is created; preparing of said microstructure specimen for viewing and imaging; computer controlled, automated viewing of said microstructure specimen from said preparing step using a scanning electron microscope; computer controlled digital imaging of said microstructure specimen, a combination of previous images obtained after a preselected number of polished microstructure sections resulting in 3-D microstructure reconstruction using 3-D volume rendering software providing real-time 3-D microstructure software data of said microstructure specimen; controlling said polishing, preparing, viewing and imaging steps using a PC workstation running serial-sectioning process control software including selecting a number of microstructure sections acquired from said microstructure specimen; and repeating said polishing, preparing and viewing and imaging steps until a pre selected number of microstructure sections from said microstructure specimen have been acquired. 