A valve stem installation system includes a robotic arm for moving a valve stem insertion device around the lip of wheel. The system also includes a pair of valve stem aperture sensors positioned on the robotic arm adjacent the valve stem insertion device and moveable around the lip of the wheel. The sensors can be positioned on opposite sides of the valve stem insertion device. When the first sensor locates the valve stem aperture, movement of the robotic can be slowed. When the second sensor locates the valve stem aperture, movement of the robotic arm can be stopped. The conveyor unit can include an identification station to sense the configuration of the wheel. A controller can select the appropriate valve stem to insert in the valve stem aperture in response to the sensed configuration of the wheel.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for inserting a valve stem in a valve stem aperture defined by a wheel comprising: moving the valve stem relative to the valve stem aperture in a first rotational direction along a curved path to align the valve stem with the valve stem aperture; locating the valve stem aperture with a first sensor of a first sensing device and a first sensor of a second sensing device, wherein said first and second sensing devices are movable in unison with each other, as the valve stem and the valve stem aperture are a first angular distance from one another along the curved path; and moving the valve stem relative to the valve stem aperture in a second rotational direction along the curved path opposite to the first rotational direction to align the valve stem with the valve stem aperture; and locating the valve stem aperture with a second sensor of the first sensing device and a second sensor of the second sensing device when the valve stem and the valve stem aperture are a second predetermined angular distance from one another along the curved path while moving in a second rotational direction. 2. The method of claim 1 including reducing a relative speed of the valve stem and the valve stem aperture relative to one another in the first rotational direction in response to the first sensor locating the valve stem aperture. 3. The method of claim 1 including positioning the first and second sensors on opposite sides of the valve stem along the curved path. 4. The method of claim 1 including moving the valve stem and the valve stem aperture relative to one another at a greater speed in the first rotational direction than in the second angular direction. 5. The method of claim 1 including the steps of: moving the valve stem to the valve stem aperture with a robotic apparatus; and controlling the robotic apparatus in response to the first and second sensors. 6. A method for inserting a valve stem in a valve stem aperture defined by a wheel, comprising the steps of: providing a work station proximate a robotic stemming assembly having first and second sensing devices each comprising of first and second sensors, wherein said first and second sensing devices are movable in unison relative to the wheel and a stemmer; moving a wheel to said work station; moving said robotic stemming assembly around the wheel in a first rotational direction along a curved oath until the first sensors of said first and second sensing devices detect the valve stem aperture; moving said robotic stemming assembly around the wheel in a second rotational direction opposite the first rotational directional until the second sensors of said first and second sensing devices detect and locate the valve stem aperture; and inserting the valve stem into the valve stem aperture with the stemmer. 7. The method of claim 6 including the step of: providing a controller operably connected to said robotic stemming assembly. 8. The method of claim 7 including the step of: signaling said controller with the first sensors a general location of the valve stem aperture. 9. The method of claim 8 including the step of: signaling said control the location of the valve stem aperture with the second sensors more precisely than the location signaled by said first sensors. 10. The method of claim 9 including the step of: aligning said stemmer with the valve stem aperture in response to said signal generated by said second sensors. 11. The method of claim 10 including the step of: moving the robotic stemming assembly in said first direction at a faster rate than said second direction. 12. The method of claim 11 including the step of: receiving the wheel from said work station. 