There is provided an apparatus for handling a disklike member having a surface, especially for handling of a wafer, including a robot for carrying out at least an angular motion in a defined moving plane, an end-effector for holding the disklike member, and a wrist member operatively interconnecting said robot with said end-effector. The wrist member provides at least a motion of the end-effector about an axis in a plane of the surface of the disklike member. An inclining motion of said disklike member is achieved by combining the angular motion of the robot and the motion about the axis in the plane of the surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for handling a disk-like member, comprising: a robot for carrying out at least an angular motion in a defined plane of motion; a wrist member that can be driven by said robot and forms a rotating mechanism for said disk-like member; an end-effector that can be driven by said wrist member, for holding and rotating said disk-like member about an axis perpendicular to a flat surface of said disk-like member, so that a surface of said disk-like member to be inspected can be offered in a desired inclination, wherein said rotating mechanism includes a pair of wheels having an axis of rotation in said flat surface of said disk-like member; wherein said angular motion of said robot and said rotating motion of said end-effector are combined to achieve said desired inclination of said surface, wherein said end-effector includes a body having an edge-gripping mechanism within that carries the disk-like member, and wherein said body having said edge gripping mechanism is arranged in a space between said pair of wheels and is fixedly connected to said pair of wheels. 2. An apparatus for handling a disk-like member that has a flat surface bounded by a circular edge defining a rotational axis of symmetry perpendicular to said flat surface, comprising: a frame defining a defined plane of motion, a robot for carrying out angular and linear motions at least in said defined plane of motion relative to said frame, a wrist member in driven connection to said robot to be moved parallel to said defined plane of motion, said wrist member including a driving member and a driven member as well as a guiding and supporting device for guiding and supporting said driven member, said driven member having an axis of rotation that is parallel to said defined plane of motion and, when rotated, causes an inclination of the disk-like member about an axis of inclination, which is parallel to said flat surface of said disk-like member; and an end-effector connected to said driven member of said wrist member, wherein said end-effector includes a gripping mechanism having a device for driving said circular edge of said disk-like member and thus rotating the disk-like member about said rotational axis of symmetry of the disk-like member perpendicular to its flat surface so that said disk-like member can be inclined about any axis of inclination among all axes that are parallel to said flat surface of said disk-like member. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said frame is designed for housing said handling apparatus in an inner space that has an opening and a rod for inserting into, or removing, the disk-like member from said inner space. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising: a pair of wheels arranged parallel to one another and defining a space, wherein said wheels are positioned on said guiding and supporting device; and a body fixedly connected to said pair of wheels, wherein said body is included in said device for rotating the disk-like member, and said body is arranged in said space between said wheels. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising: a bracket that carries a driving motor for a driving pinion that engages one wheel of said pair of wheels, wherein said bracket is included on said driving member of said wrist member. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein one of said pair of wheels is a driving wheel. 7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein one of said pair of wheels is a support wheel. 8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said frame encompasses an inner space with an opening and a rod for inserting into, or removing, the disk-like member from said inner space. 9. An apparatus for handling a disk-like member having a flat surface bounded by a circular edge defining a rotational axis of symmetry perpendicular to said flat surface, comprising: a frame for housing said handling apparatus, a robot for carrying out angular and linear motions at least in a defined plane of motion relative to said frame, a wrist member in driven connection to said robot to be moved parallel to said defined plane of motion, said wrist member including a driving member and a driven member as well as a guiding and supporting device for guiding and supporting said driven member, said driven member having an axis of rotation that is parallel to said defined plane of motion and, when rotated causes an inclination of the disk-like member about an axis of inclination, which is parallel to said flat surface of said disk-like member; an end-effector connected to said driven member of said wrist member, wherein said end-effector includes a gripping mechanism for holding the disk-like member, and wherein said end-effector also includes a device for driving said circular edge of said disk-like member and rotating the disk-like member about said rotational axis of symmetry of the disk-like member perpendicular to its flat surface; a pair of wheels arranged parallel to one another and defining a space, wherein said wheels are positioned on said guiding and supporting device; and a body fixedly connected to said pair of wheels, wherein said body is included in said device for rotating the disk-like member, and said body is arranged in said space between said wheels. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: a bracket that carries a driving motor for a driving pinion that engages one wheel of said pair of wheels, wherein said bracket is included on said driving member of said wrist member. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein one of said pair of wheels is a driving wheel. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein one of said pair of wheels is a support wheel. 