In a first aspect, a substrate loading station is served by a conveyor which continuously transports substrate carriers. A substrate carrier handler that is part of the substrate loading station operates to exchange substrate carriers with the conveyor while the conveyor is in motion. A carrier exchange procedure may include moving an end effector of the substrate carrier handler at a velocity that substantially matches a velocity of the conveyor. Numerous other aspects are provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus adapted to supply substrates to a processing tool, comprising: a substrate carrier handler adapted to transport a substrate carrier to a first load port of the processing tool, the substrate carrier handler including an end effector adapted to support the substrate carrier; a controller coupled to the substrate carrier handler and operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler disengages the substrate carrier from a substrate carrier conveyor while the substrate carrier is in motion and being transported by the substrate carrier conveyor; and at least one sensor coupled to the controller and adapted to detect a speed or a position of at least one of the substrate carrier conveyor and the substrate carrier as the substrate carrier is being transported by the substrate carrier conveyor. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor is positioned at an elevation of the substrate carrier conveyor. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the at least one sensor comprises a first sensor pair including a first sensor and a second sensor disposed horizontally across the substrate carrier conveyor from the first sensor. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the at least one sensor further comprises a second sensor pair distanced vertically from the first sensor pair at an elevation at which substrate carriers are transported by the substrate carrier conveyor, the second sensor pair including a third sensor and a fourth sensor disposed horizontally across the substrate carrier conveyor from the third sensor. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the controller is operative to receive input from the at least one sensor and to control operation of the substrate carrier handler in response to the received input. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the first sensor pair is adapted to detect a speed of the substrate carrier conveyor. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the second sensor pair is adapted to detect whether a substrate carrier is being transported by the substrate carrier conveyor. 8. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the first sensor of the first sensor pair is adapted to emit a light beam and the second sensor of the first sensor pair is adapted to detect the light beam emitted by the first sensor. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the substrate carrier conveyor includes a plurality of openings at predetermined spacings, and the second sensor is adapted to detect the light beam emitted by the first sensor when the light beam passes through each of the plurality of openings of the substrate carrier conveyor. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the controller is operative to measure a time between successive detections of the light beam by the second sensor and to determine a speed of the substrate carrier conveyor based on the measured time and the predetermined spacings between the openings of the substrate carrier conveyor. 11. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the at least one sensor further comprises one or more encoders coupled to the substrate carrier conveyor and adapted to measure a speed of the substrate carrier conveyor. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the controller is operative to receive input from the one or more encoders and to determine variation in speed of the substrate carrier conveyor. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the controller is adapted to adjust a position of the end effector in response to variations in the speed of the substrate carrier conveyor. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the controller is adapted to abort at least one of a loading and an unloading operation in response to gross variations in the speed of the substrate carrier conveyor. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor includes a position sensor mounted on the end effector. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the position sensor includes a light source and a light detector. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the position sensor is adapted to detect when the end effector and a target substrate carrier are in an aligned position while the target substrate carrier is being transported by the substrate carrier conveyor. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the controller, during an unloading operation, is operative to control the substrate carrier handler to raise the end effector into engagement with the target substrate carrier based on a signal from the position sensor indicating that the end effector and the target substrate carrier are in an aligned position. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the position sensor is adapted to detect when the end effector and a vacant carrier engagement member of the substrate carrier conveyor are in an aligned position. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the controller, during a loading operation, is operative to control the substrate carrier handler to raise the end effector so that a target substrate carrier is brought to a level of the vacant carrier engagement member based on a signal from the position sensor indicating that the end effector and the vacant carrier engagement member are in an aligned position. 21. An apparatus comprising: a substrate carrier handler adapted to transport a substrate carrier to a first load port of a processing tool, the substrate carrier handler including an end effector adapted to support the substrate carrier; a controller coupled to the substrate carrier handler and operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler transfers the substrate carrier to a carrier engagement member of a substrate carrier conveyor while the substrate carrier conveyor is in motion; and at least one sensor coupled to the controller and adapted to detect a speed or a position of at least one of the substrate carrier conveyor and the carrier engagement member coupled to the substrate carrier conveyor. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the at least one sensor is positioned at an elevation of the substrate carrier conveyor. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the at least one sensor comprises a first sensor pair including a first sensor and a second sensor disposed horizontally across the substrate carrier conveyor from the first sensor. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the at least one sensor further comprises a second sensor pair distanced vertically from the first sensor pair at an elevation at which substrate carriers are transported by the substrate carrier conveyor, the second sensor pair including a third sensor and a fourth sensor disposed horizontally across the substrate carrier conveyor from the third sensor. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the controller is operative to receive input from the at least one sensor and to control operation of the substrate carrier handler in response to the received input. 