A method for displaying physical address of data storage media residing within an automated data storage library. A drive, including a drive processor and a drive display, recognizes a load display request received from a host computer/application that includes an identification of a data storage medium. The drive generates a request for the physical address of the data storage medium corresponding to the identification and transmits the request to a library controller. The library controller looks up the corresponding physical address and transmits it back to the drive, where it is displayed on the drive display.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of displaying physical addresses comprising the steps of: receiving a request for a data storage medium with a corresponding data storage medium identification; generating a request for a physical address corresponding to the data storage medium identification; transmitting the request to a library controller; receiving the physical address from the library controller; and displaying the physical address on a drive comprising a drive display, wherein the physical address is displayed on the drive display. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the data storage medium is a tape cartridge. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of receiving algorithmic instructions from an external interface. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of displaying the data storage medium information. 5. A method of providing a service for assigning a virtual import/export element address or virtual storage element address to a data storage medium, comprising integrating computer-readable code into a computing system, wherein the computer-readable code in combination with the computing system is capable of performing the following steps: receiving a request for a data storage medium with a corresponding data storage medium identification; generating a request for a physical address corresponding to the data storage device identification; transmitting the request to a library controller; receiving the physical address from the library controller; and displaying the physical address on a drive comprising a drive display, wherein the physical address is displayed on the drive display. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the data storage medium is a tape cartridge. 7. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of receiving algorithmic instructions from an external interface. 8. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of displaying the data storage medium information. 