A wallpaper printer includes a support frame. A cabinet assembly is mounted on the support frame. A drying module is operatively mountable with respect to the support frame and defines a first chamber and a second drying chamber. A heating element is positioned within the first chamber. At least one fan is operatively positioned with respect to the first chamber to force air past the heating element. The first chamber is configured to direct the heated air through an opening into a second drying chamber. The drying module includes a motorized door for opening and closing the opening. The drying module is configured so that, in use, the second drying chamber receives printed media via the opening. The drying module further includes at least one circulation duct to transfer at least a portion of the heated air from the second drying chamber towards the at least one fan.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A web printer that comprises a support frame; a cabinet assembly mounted on the support frame; a drying module that is operatively mountable with respect to the support frame, the drying module defining a first chamber and a second drying chamber; a heating element positioned within the first chamber; at least one fan operatively positioned with respect to the first chamber to force air past the heating element, the first chamber being configured to direct the heated air through an opening into a second drying chamber; the drying module including a motorized door for opening and closing the opening, the module being configured so that, in use, the second drying chamber receives printed media via the opening, and the drying module further including at least one circulation duct to transfer at least a portion of the heated air from the second drying chamber towards the at least one fan. 2. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, in which the drying module includes a thermal sensor coupled with a control system to control operation of the drying module. 3. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, which includes at least one media cartridge mountable on the support frame and containing a roll of unprinted web; a printhead arranged on the support frame to span the web, in use; a first drive means arranged on the support frame to engage the web and to drive the web past the printhead; at least one processor to receive and process print data and to control printing on the web by the printhead; and a second drive means arranged on the support frame to engage the web and to drive the printed web onto a roller to be wound by a winding means. 4. A web printer as claimed in claim 3, in which the cabinet assembly includes: a support arrangement configured to support the, or each, media cartridge and the printhead; at least one guide to direct the web past the printhead; a further support arrangement configured to support at least one ink reservoir in fluid communication with the printhead; and at least one module adapted to hold at least one processor. 5. A web printer as claimed in claim 3, which includes a composite heating system having a pre-heater disposed between the media cartridge and the printhead and, disposed between the printhead and a printed web exit region, a heating element provided within a first chamber positioned on one side of the web, in use, and at least one fan positioned to force air past the heating element, the first chamber being adapted to direct the heated air through an opening into a second heating chamber positioned on the other side of the web, the second heating chamber being configured to receive printed web passed into the second heating chamber through the opening. 6. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, which includes a container for receiving the printed web, the container including: a casing to enclose the printed web; a core in the casing about which the printed web is wound; two support members that engage respective opposite ends of the core, the support members bearing the load of the printed media web against at least one interior surface of the casing; and at least one of the support members including a hub that protrudes through an opening in an end of the casing, the hub being adapted to engage a drive spindle, the drive spindle rotating the hub which results in rotation of the core and consequent winding of the printed web about the core. 7. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, which includes a paper supply cartridge for storing unprinted web, the paper supply cartridge including a casing to enclose the unprinted web; a fixed shaft about which the unprinted web is wound and is free to rotate; two support members that each hold an opposite end of the shaft, the support members being supported by the casing to prevent rotation of the shaft relative to the casing; at least two feed rollers to draw the unprinted web from about the shaft and to feed the unprinted web out through an exit region of the casing; and at least one of the feed rollers including a coupling which protrudes through an opening in an end of the casing and is adapted to engage with a drive spindle provided in the printing system, the drive spindle being adapted to rotate the at least one feed roller. 