A method and apparatus relating to the renting, leasing and/or loaning of electronic equipment operable and/or controllable by a computer, wherein one entity not in physical possession and/or control of the equipment desires control over another entity which has physical possession and/or control of the equipment. Such equipment may comprise a washing machine, medical, office or industrial equipment, a vending machine, etc. A central computer system includes software which enables management and execution of financial transactions between the entities, such as debiting or crediting of accounts held by these or other entities, or creating an invoice for one entity to present to another entity. Information used in making these financial transactions can be determined by analysis of information which may be communicated to the central computer system from at least one other source. Such source may include the control system of the controlled equipment, e.g., from a vending machine or the computer system of an interested entity.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of controlling the sale of packaged goods from a vending apparatus, the vending apparatus including a computer controller which has the ability to enable or disable the vending apparatus from selling packaged goods to a user of the vending apparatus based on an agreement between a first party and a second party, wherein; the first party has an interest in controlling the sale of packaged goods from the vending apparatus, and the second party controls the loading of packaged goods into a storage area which is located inside the vending apparatus, and wherein, the first and second parties enter into an agreement concerning the sale of packaged goods from the vending apparatus, the agreement including the following rules about the manner of operation of the vending apparatus: (i) the vending apparatus may be enabled to sell the packaged goods to a plurality of successive users for an interval, (ii) at an end of the interval the vending apparatus is at least partially disabled from selling at least some of the goods to a plurality of successive users, and (iii) if before the end of the interval a continuation code is received by the vending apparatus, then, in that case, the vending apparatus is not at least partially disabled at the end of the interval, and furthermore wherein, the rules (i),(ii), and (iii), for enabling and disabling the vending apparatus to sell packaged goods, are executed by the computer controller, which computer controller is programmed to control the vending apparatus in accordance with these rules. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the interval represents at least one of (i) one or more predefined periods of time; (ii) one or more predefined numbers of vends of goods from the vending apparatus; (iii) one or more predefined quanta of sales by the vending apparatus. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the interval is at least one of reset and modified in response to the vending apparatus receiving the continuation code. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the continuation code includes an interval modification instruction and the interval is at least one of reset and modified in response thereto. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said parties also agree that the continuation code is made available to the vending apparatus after a determination is made that at least one rule in the agreement has been at least one of satisfied and waived. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising determining whether the at least one rule in the agreement has been at least one of satisfied and waived, and then making the continuation code available to the vending apparatus. 7. The method of claim 6, farther comprising encrypting the continuation code prior to making it available to the vending apparatus. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein an authorized third party receives prescribed data concerning the sales of goods from the vending apparatus, at a location which is remote from the vending machine, determines whether the at least one rule in the agreement has been satisfied based on at least some of the prescribed data, and makes the continuation code available to the vending apparatus. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of making the continuation code available to the vending apparatus includes at least one of: generating the continuation code and releasing the continuation code to one of the vending apparatus, to an intermediary entity, or to an entity responsible for inputting the continuation code into the vending apparatus; and authorizing a third party to at least one of generate the continuation code and release the continuation code to the vending apparatus, to an intermediary entity, or to an entity responsible for inputting the continuation code into the vending apparatus. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein at least one of the step of releasing the continuation code to the vending apparatus and inputting the continuation code into the vending apparatus includes at least one of: entering the continuation code into the vending apparatus through a goods selection keypad on the vending apparatus; entering the continuation code into the vending apparatus through a dedicated keypad on the vending apparatus; entering the continuation code into the vending apparatus through a portable device operable to connect to a data port of the vending apparatus; and entering the continuation code into the vending apparatus over a communications network to which the vending apparatus is connected. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the communications network includes at least one of a wire network, a telephone network, a radio frequency link, an infrared link, a local area network, a wide area network, and the Internet. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of making the continuation code available to the vending apparatus includes generating the continuation code and releasing the continuation code to one of the vending apparatus, to an intermediary entity, or to an entity responsible for inputting the continuation code into the vending apparatus. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of making the continuation code available to the vending apparatus includes authorizing a third party to at least one of generate the continuation code and release the continuation code to one of the vending apparatus, to an intermediary entity, or to an entity responsible for inputting the continuation code into the vending apparatus. 14. The method of claim 6, further comprising: communicating with an authorized third party responsible for receiving prescribed data concerning the sales of goods from the vending apparatus; and determining whether the at least one rule in the agreement has been satisfied based on at least some of the prescribed data. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein after having been disabled at the end of an interval, the vending apparatus is automatically enabled after a predefined period of time has elapsed. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer controller is further operable to at least one of increase and decrease the interval in response to the interval modification instruction. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer controller is further operable to decode the continuation code, the continuation code having been encrypted prior to making it available to the vending apparatus. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising subjecting the sale of goods from the vending apparatus to at least one limitation. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising modifying the at least one limitation in response to at least one limitation modification instruction contained in the continuation code. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the at least one limitation includes at least one of: (i) that the vending apparatus is required to vend only authorized goods; (ii) that inventory of one or more goods must be maintained in the vending apparatus; (iii) that goods must be displayed in the vending apparatus in a prescribed way; (iv) that advertising indicia must be displayed on the vending apparatus in a prescribed way; (v) that a prescribed ratio of a quantum of one or more goods to a quantum of storage space for goods in the vending apparatus must be maintained; (vi) that a prescribed number of goods selections in the vending apparatus must be maintained; (vii) that prescribed quanta of one or more goods must be dispensed from the vending apparatus in a predefined period of time; (viii) that a prescribed quantum of money must be received at the vending apparatus in a predefined period of time; (ix) that a prescribed ratio of one or more of the goods to one or more others of the goods must be vended from the vending apparatus; (x) that a prescribed ratio of one or more of the goods to one or more others of the goods must be vended from the vending apparatus in a predefined period of time; (xi) that prescribed data concerning the sales of goods from the vending apparatus will be made available to the first party; (xii) that the vending apparatus must be maintained in operation to a prescribed degree, and (xiii) that the first party will not tamper with the vending apparatus. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the limitation that the vending apparatus is required to vend only authorized goods includes at least one of: (i) selling only goods of an authorized type; (ii) selling only goods of an authorized brand; (iii) selling only goods of an authorized size; (iv) selling only goods of an authorized weight; (v) selling only goods of an authorized expiration date; (vi) selling only goods of an authorized package type; (vii) selling only goods of an authorized period of manufacture; and (viii) selling only goods of an authorized place of manufacture. 22. The method of claim 20, further comprising determining that the prescribed data concerning the sales of goods from the vending apparatus are authentic prior to making the continuation code available to the vending apparatus. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the determination that the prescribed data are authentic is based on at least one of encryption and a code among the prescribed data. 24. The method of claim 20, wherein the prescribed data from the vending apparatus is encrypted by a computer within the vending apparatus. 25. The method of claim 20, wherein the prescribed data from the vending apparatus is encrypted by a computer before the data is communicated from the vending apparatus to a location outside the vending apparatus. 26. The method of claim 20, wherein the prescribed data concerning the sales of goods from the vending apparatus includes at least one of: (i) a quantum of one or more types of goods sold during one or more prescribed periods of time; (ii) a quantum of one or more brands of goods sold during one or more prescribed periods of time; (iii) a ratio of one or more types of the goods sold to one or more other types of the goods sold in a predefined period of time; (iv) a ratio of one or more brands of the goods sold to one or more other brands of the goods sold in a predefined period of time; (v) respective dates of vends from the vending apparatus; (vi) respective times of vends from the vending apparatus; (vii) information concerning whether a particular good was out of inventory; (viii) information concerning what a next choice of goods was made by a purchaser when a particular good was out of inventory; (ix) information concerning whether the vending apparatus was operational; and (x) information concerning any limitations under which the vending apparatus vends the goods. (xi) information concerning the sales price of any of the goods sold 27. The method of claim 20, wherein tampering with the vending apparatus includes at least one of: (i) tampering with a goods identification device of the vending apparatus that is operable to determine details of a particular good stored in or vended from the vending apparatus; (ii) tampering with a computer controller of the vending apparatus; and (iii) relocating the vending apparatus.(iv) tampering with any electronic or electro-mechanical device connected to the vending apparatus 28. The method of claim 1, wherein after having been disabled at the end of an interval, the vending apparatus is automatically enabled after a predefined period of time has elapsed. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer controller of the vending apparatus may be enabled so as to produce the continuation code at the end of the interval, such that the vending apparatus is automatically enabled. 30. The vending apparatus of claim 29, wherein the computer controller of the vending apparatus is further operable to decode the disable code, the disable code having been encrypted prior to being received by the vending apparatus. 31. The vending apparatus of claim 29, wherein the computer controller of the vending apparatus is further operable to decode the continuation code, the continuation code having been encrypted prior to being received by the vending apparatus. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein the vending apparatus is disabled from vending only a subset of the goods when the continuation code is not received before or after the end of the interval. 33. The method of claim 1, wherein the first party includes at least one of a manufacturer of the vending apparatus, an operator responsible to at least stock the vending apparatus with the goods and collect receipts from the vending apparatus, a seller of one or more goods to be vended from the vending apparatus, a distributor or agent of the seller of one or more goods, a lender of money to an entity to purchase the vending apparatus, a lessor of the vending apparatus to an entity, and a holder of property on which the vending apparatus is located. 34. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer controller of the vending apparatus is operable to at least partially disable the vending apparatus from dispensing at least some of the goods when an externally generated disable code is received by the vending apparatus. 35. The method of claim 1, wherein the vending apparatus may be enabled for sequential intervals so long as respective continuation codes are received by the vending apparatus for each interval, and no two sequential continuation codes are identical. 36. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer controller of the vending apparatus is operable to (i) monitor a first selection of goods for purchase made by a user of the vending apparatus; (ii) determine whether the first selection is for at least some goods that are out of inventory within the vending apparatus; and (iii) monitor at least a second selection of goods for purchase made by the user in response to the first selection of goods being out of inventory. 37. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer controller of the vending apparatus is operable to (i) monitor data concerning sales of the goods from the vending apparatus; and (ii) release the data from the vending apparatus to at least one interested entity, wherein the data include at least one of (i) information concerning vending or attempts at vending unauthorized goods from the vending apparatus; (ii) information concerning the sales of goods from the vending apparatus obtained using a goods identification device of the vending apparatus; and (iii) information concerning any limitations under which the vending apparatus vends the goods 38. The method of claim 1, wherein the interval can be a predetermined number of attempts by the machine to vend unauthorized goods 39. The method of claim 38, wherein the information concerning whether goods are unauthorized is determined with the use of a camera, and computer using pattern recognition techniques to determine whether the image of at least one package in the vending apparatus is of a type which is or is unauthorized 40. The method of claim 39 wherein based on a determination that attempts were made to sell unauthorized goods from the vending apparatus, the computer controller is operable to partially disable the vending apparatus by disabling the ability of the vending apparatus to vend goods from that portion of the storage area in which unauthorized goods were determined to have been stored. 41. The method of claim 1, including the further steps of: using a vending apparatus to produce a code associated with at least some data obtained by the vending apparatus concerning sales of goods therefrom, the code providing an indication as to whether the at least some data have been tampered with; and releasing at least one of the code and the at least some data concerning sales of goods from the vending apparatus to at least one interested entity such that a determination may be made as to whether the at least some data have been tampered with 