In an automatic milking installation including a robot arm (2) with a gripper (3) for attaching teat cups (4) to the teats of an animal, e.g. a cow, to be milked, for applying a teat dip to the teats after milking different members, such as spray nozzles (5a, 5b), dipping cups (5c, 5d) and sponge or cloth rollers (5e), are provided for applying different teat dip compositions. Under the control of a computer, the robot arm collects the member (5) appropriate for supplying the selected composition and takes it to a position appropriate for application of that composition. The selection can e effected in dependence upon the teat skin condition, e.g. detected by a camera (15) and/or environmental conditions.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Apparatus for selecting a liquid topical composition capable of forming a topical application on a surface of at least a part of an udder, in particular a teat, of an animal from an available multiplicity of such compositions, each composition of said multiplicity thereof being different than other compositions of said multiplicity thereof, and thereafter applying the selected composition as a topical application on such a surface, said apparatus comprising: a source providing a respective separate supply of each composition of said multiplicity thereof; an applicator adapted and arranged for applying a topical composition selected from said multiplicity thereof and received from said source as a topical application on said surface, said applicator normally being located at a predetermined standby location; a robot arm operably associated with the applicator and actuatable for moving said applicator from said standby location and into a position for applying the selected composition as said topical application on said surface, said predetermined standby location normally being remote from said robot arm, said applicator being completely separated from the robot arm when it is in said standby location; and a control device operatively connected to the robot arm for actuating the latter to cause the robot arm to move the applicator from said standby location and into said position and thereafter cause the applicator to apply the selected composition to said surface, said control device being adapted and arranged to (1) receive and analyze information relating to the condition of said surface and/or the climatic conditions of the animal environment, (2) use such information to select an appropriate topical composition from among said multiplicity thereof to be applied as said topical application on said surface, and (3) manipulate the robot arm accordingly. 2. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said liquid topical composition comprises a liquid of relatively low viscosity, a viscous liquid, a greasy liquid, a lotion, a cream, a sun screen, a sprayable liquid or an udder grease. 3. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein the control device is operable to cause the robot arm to collect the applicator from the standby location and to thereafter move it to said position for applying the composition. 4. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, comprising a respective separate applicator for each composition included in said multiplicity of compositions, said robot arm being operably associated with said applicators and actuatable for selective and respective individual movement of each said applicator into a position for applying a selected composition to said surface. 5. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein the robot arm is arranged to collect a selected applicator from its respective predetermined standby location and to return the selected applicator to its standby location when the application of composition to said part of said udder is completed. 6. Apparatus as set forth in claim 5, wherein the robot arm is equipped with a gripping device operable to grasp and to release the selected applicator. 7. Apparatus as set forth in claim 5, wherein two or more of the applicators are incorporated in a common unit which the robot arm collects from a predetermined standby location, the operation of a selected applicator incorporated in the common unit being controlled by the control device for applying the respective composition. 8. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein said part of said udder is a teat, and at least one of the applicators comprises a container with an opening for a teat to be dipped into the composition contained in the container via said opening. 9. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein at least one of the applicators comprises a spray nozzle. 10. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein at least one of the applicators comprises a wiping element for applying the respective composition by wiping said part of said udder. 11. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein the control device is arranged to select the applicator and thereby the composition to be used for treating said part of said udder of an animal in accordance with data relating to that specific animal. 12. Apparatus as set forth in claim 11, wherein the data relating to the specific animal is gathered from one or more milkings of that animal and stored in a computer. 13. Apparatus as set forth in claim 11, comprising a sensing device for detecting a skin condition of said part of said udder, and wherein the control device is arranged to select an applicator in dependence upon the detected condition of said part of said udder. 14. Apparatus as set forth in claim 13, wherein the sensing device comprises a camera. 15. Apparatus as set forth in claim 14, wherein the control device includes means for analyzing an output from said camera for detecting skin traumas. 16. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein the control device is arranged to select one of the applicators in accordance with stored data, the stored data comprising information relating to the environment of the animal to which a selected composition is to be applied. 17. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein said part of said udder is a teat, the robot arm is included in an automatic milking installation, and the robot arm is operable to attach a teat cup to a teat of an animal. 18. A method of applying a liquid topical composition as a topical application on a surface of at least a part of an udder, in particular a teat, of an animal, said method comprising: providing, at a single milking stall location, a multiplicity of compositions including at least two different compositions chosen from among skin treatment compositions and skin protective compositions; selecting a liquid topical composition from said multiplicity of such compositions; applying the selected composition as a topical application on said surface using an applicator charged with the selected composition; positioning the applicator at a predetermined standby location at said stall, and thereafter moving the applicator into a position for applying the selected composition as a topical application on said surface using a robot arm operatively connected to a control device, said predetermined standby location normally being remote from said robot arm, said applicator being completely separated from the robot arm when it is in said standby location, said control device being adapted and arranged to (1) receive and analyze information relating to the condition of said surface and/or the climatic conditions of the animal environment, (2) use such information to select an appropriate topical composition from among said multiplicity thereof to be applied as said topical application on said surface, and (3) manipulating the robot arm accordingly so as to cause the robot arm to move the applicator from said standby location and into said position. 19. A method as set forth in claim 18, wherein said liquid topical composition comprises a liquid of relatively low viscosity, a viscous liquid, a greasy liquid, a lotion, a cream, a sun screen, a sprayable liquid or an udder grease. 20. A method as set forth in claim 18, wherein the control device is operable to cause the robot arm to collect the applicator from the standby location and to thereafter move it to said position for applying the composition. 21. A method as set forth in claim 18, wherein said selecting comprises selecting an applicator from among a plurality of said applicators, each said applicator being charged with a different one of the compositions of said multiplicity thereof. 22. A method as set forth in claim 21, wherein the applicators have standby locations and the selection of the applicator to be used to apply a selected composition to said part of said udder is effected by collecting the selected applicator from its standby location using a robot arm. 23. A method as set forth in claim 22, wherein two or more of said applicators are incorporated in a common unit having a standby location and the robot arm is used to collect the common unit from its standby location and move the common unit and thereby a selected applicator into its composition applying location. 24. A method as set forth in claim 21, wherein information relating to individual animals is stored and an applicator is selected for applying a selected composition to said part of said udder of an animal in dependence upon the stored information relating to that specific individual animal. 25. A method as set forth in claim 24, wherein said part of said udder is a teat and the information relating to individual animals includes the skin conditions of the teats of the animals. 26. A method as set forth in claim 25, wherein information relating to the skin condition of a teat of an animal is gathered by means of a camera. 27. A method as set forth in claim 26, wherein the information gathered by the camera is analyzed to detect skin traumas. 28. A method as set forth in claim 21, wherein said part of said udder is a teat and each teat of the udder of an animal has a selected composition applied to it in turn, and immediately prior to the application of a selected composition to a given teat an applicator is selected for application of the selected composition to the given teat. 29. A method as set forth in claim 21, wherein data on environmental conditions is stored and the selection of a composition is dependent on the stored data. 30. A method as set forth in claim 21, wherein said part of said udder is a teat and at least one applicator comprises a container holding one of said compositions, and upon selection of this composition the robot arm takes the container to the teat to be treated and causes the teat to be immersed into the composition held in the container. 31. Apparatus for selecting a liquid topical composition for a topical application on a surface of a teat, of an animal from an available multiplicity of such compositions, and thereafter applying the selected composition as a topical application on such a surface, said apparatus comprising: a source providing a respective separate supply of each composition of said multiplicity thereof; a plurality of different applicators, each separately mounted at a side of the milking stall, each applicator adapted to apply a selected topical composition as a topical application on said surface; a robot arm operably associated with said applicators and actuatable for movement of a selected applicator into a position for applying the selected composition as said topical application on said surface; and a control device operatively connected to the robot arm for actuating the latter and causing the same to locate said selected applicator in said position, said control device (1) receiving and analyzing information relating to the condition of said surface and/or the climatic conditions of the animal environment, (2) using such information to select an appropriate topical composition from among said multiplicity thereof to be applied as said topical application on said surface, and (3) manipulating the robot arm accordingly. 32. A method of applying a liquid topical composition as a topical application on a surface of a teat, of an animal, said method comprising: providing, at a single milking stall location, a multiplicity of compositions including at least two different compositions chosen from among skin treatment compositions and skin protective compositions; selecting a liquid topical composition from said multiplicity of such compositions; applying the selected composition as a topical application on said surface using an applicator selected from a plurality of different applicators each mounted on a side of the milking stall charged with the selected composition; and positioning the selected applicator in a position for applying the selected composition as a topical application on said surface using a control device operatively connected to the robot arm, said control device (1) receiving and analyzing information relating to the condition of said surface and/or the climatic conditions of the animal environment, (2) using such information to select an appropriate topical composition from among said multiplicity thereof to be applied as said topical application on said surface, and (3) manipulating the robot arm accordingly. 