Digital watermarks embedded in objects enable watermark readers in vehicles to identify the objects and determine their orientation and location for use in navigation.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for automated navigation comprising: capturing an image scan of a digital watermark on an object; extracting orientation and location information of an image sensor relative to the object from the digital watermark; performing object identification based on auxiliary information carried in the digital watermark; and using the orientation, location and object identification information to control movement of a vehicle. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the digital watermark comprises a sparse digital watermark including a collection of sparse elements distributed on the object. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the digital watermark is embedded in an image on the object. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the digital watermark is embedded in the image by adapting a digital watermark to attributes of a host image using a human perceptual model. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the digital watermark is carried in retro-reflective material on the object. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the image scan is a microwave image scan. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the image scan is an RF image scan. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the image scan is an infrared image scan. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the digital watermark is applied by using materials with differing cooling rates to represent elements of a digital watermark signal. 10. A computer readable medium on which is stored software for performing the method of claim 1. 11. A system for automated navigation comprising: a sensor for capturing an image scan of a digital watermark on an object; a reader for extracting orientation and location information of an image sensor relative to the object from the digital watermark, and for performing object identification based on auxiliary information carried in the digital watermark; and a navigation controller for using the orientation, location and object identification information to control movement of a vehicle. 12. A method for automated machine control comprising: capturing an image scan of a digital watermark on an object; extracting orientation and location information of an image sensor relative to the object from the digital watermark; performing object identification based on auxiliary information carried in the digital watermark; and using the orientation, location and object identification information to control movement of a machine. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the digital watermark comprises a sparse digital watermark including a collection of sparse elements distributed on the object. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the digital watermark is embedded in an image on the object. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the digital watermark is embedded in the image by adapting a digital watermark to attributes of a host image using a human perceptual model. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the digital watermark is carried in retro-reflective material on the object. 17. The method of claim 12 wherein the image scan is a microwave image scan. 18. The method of claim 12 wherein the image scan is an RF image scan. 19. The method of claim 12 wherein the image scan is an infrared image scan. 20. The method of claim 12 wherein the digital watermark is applied by using materials with differing cooling rates to represent elements of a digital watermark signal. 21. A computer readable medium on which is stored software for performing the method of claim 12. 22. A system for automated machine control comprising: a sensor for capturing an image scan of a digital watermark on an object; a reader for extracting orientation and location information of an image sensor relative to the object from the digital watermark, and for performing object identification based on auxiliary information carried in the digital watermark; and a navigation controller for using the orientation, location and object identification information to control movement of a machine. 