A control for pressurizing a load lock. The control initiates pressurization of the loadlock interior by coupling a source of gas to the loadlock interior. A representative load lock includes a pressure sensor and multiple valves to atmosphere where at least one such valves is a passthrough valve for removal of and insertion of workpieces from and into a load lock interior. A second fast acting valve also opens to atmosphere. A pressure rise inside the loadlock interior is monitored and when the pressure reaches a threshold pressure above atmosphere the fast acting valve is opened to atmosphere. This second fast acting valve is configured to relieve overpressure from the passthrough valve prior to opening of said passthrough valve. Workpiece movement is accomplished with the aid of a robot which reaches into the loadlock interior as it is either depositing workpieces or retrieving them. This system and process minimizes particle contamination of the load lock interior as well as contamination in the region outside the loadlock near the passthrough valve and any scheduled workpieces.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. For use with a semiconductor processing tool having an evacuated region for treating a workpiece and a load station for delivering workpieces to and retrieving workpieces from the evacuated region, apparatus comprising: a load lock including: a passthrough valve for removal of and insertion of workpieces from and into a load lock interior; a second valve to atmosphere; and a pressure sensor, wherein said second valve is controlled by an output from said pressure sensor to relieve overpressure from the load lock prior to opening said passthrough valve. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising a control for monitoring a signal from the pressure sensor. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the control comprises a control output for controlling opening and closing of the passthrough valve. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the control comprises a control program that awaits receipt of a signal corresponding to a specified pressure above atmosphere before opening the passthrough valve. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the control comprises first and second controllers coupled to the pressure sensor and wherein one controller comprises a dedicated controller that only performs functions relating to controlling load lock valve actuators. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the second valve comprises a fast acting pressure relieving valve for venting the load lock interior to atmosphere and wherein the dedicated controller commands opening of the fast acting valve. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein a delay is instituted by the dedicated controller between opening of the fast acting valve and opening of the passthrough valve. 8. In a semiconductor processing tool, a method of workpiece transfer from one pressure region to a second comprising: providing a load lock having a loadlock interior and a first throughpassage which opens and closes for moving workpieces into and out of the loadlock and which opens to atmosphere and a second throughpassage which opens and closes for movement of a workpiece into and out of the loadlock and which opens to an evacuated region of an implanter; initiating pressurization of the loadlock interior by coupling a source of pressurized gas to the loadlock interior; monitoring a pressure rise as the gas source routes gas into the loadlock interior and when the pressure reaches an above atmosphere threshold pressure above atmosphere opening a pressure relieving valve to open the loadlock interior to atmosphere; and opening the first throughpassage to allow workpieces to be inserted into the loadlock or allows workpieces within the loadlock to be removed. 9. The method of claim 8 additionally comprising instituting a delay between opening the pressure relieving valve and opening the first throughpassage to allow workpiece movement in relation to the loadlock. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein flow of gas into a chamber from the source of pressurized gas as a vent valve is opened to maintain above atmosphere pressure inside the load lock prior to opening the first throughpassage. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein two controllers monitor the pressure and wherein a first controller arms or activates a second dedicated controller when the pressure reaches a lower threshold pressure below atmospheric pressure. 