An improved particle beam treatment system optionally includes exchangeable particle beam nozzles. These particle beam nozzles may be automatically moved from a storage location to a particle beam path or between particle beam paths for use in medical applications. Movement may be achieved using a conveyance, gantry, rail system, or the like. The improved particle beam treatment system optionally also includes more than two alternative particle beam paths. These alternative particle beam paths may be directed to a patient from a variety of different angles and in different planes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A particle beam nozzle comprising: a mount configured to alternatively hold the particle beam nozzle along each of a plurality of alternative particle beam paths; and a positioner configured to automatically position the particle beam nozzle relative to a treatment station or one of the plurality of alternative particle beam paths. 2. The particle beam nozzle of claim 1, further comprising a collimator configured to collimate high-energy particles. 3. The particle beam nozzle of claim 1, further comprising a conveyance configured for moving the particle beam nozzle between the plurality of alternative particle beam paths. 4. The particle beam nozzle of claim 1, further comprising a coupler configured for connecting the particle beam nozzle to part of one of the plurality of alternative particle beam paths. 5. The particle beam nozzle of claim 1, further including an environmental control configured to be moved with the particle beam nozzle between the plurality of alternative particle beam paths. 6. The particle beam nozzle of claim 1, wherein the particle beam nozzle is a double scattering nozzle. 7. The particle beam nozzle of claim 1, wherein the particle beam nozzle is a scanning nozzle. 8. The particle beam nozzle of claim 1, further including a shutter control configured to open or close a shutter along one of the plurality of alternative particle beam paths. 9. The particle beam nozzle of claim 1, further including a shutter control responsive to an interlock. 10. The particle beam nozzle of claim 1, further including an energy modifier configured to vary an energy of high-energy paticles within each of the plurality of alternative particle beam paths. 11. The particle beam nozzle of claim 10, wherein the energy modifier is configured to be added to or removed from the particle beam nozzle using an automated transport system. 12. A particle beam nozzle comprising: a conveyance configured to automatically move the particle beam nozzle to a first particle beam path; a coupler configured to hold the particle beam nozzle relative to the first particle beam path; and a beam scanner configured to scan a particle beam of high-energy particles from the first particle beam path. 13. The particle beam nozzle of claim 12, wherein the conveyance is further configured for moving the particle beam nozzle between alternative particle beam paths. 14. The particle beam nozzle of claim 12, wherein the conveyance is further configured to move the particle beam nozzle to a second particle beam path. 15. The particle beam nozzle of claim 12, wherein the conveyance is further configured to move the particle beam nozzle from a nozzle storage to the first particle beam path. 16. The particle beam nozzle of claim 12, further including a positioner configured to automatically position the particle beam nozzle relative to a treatment station or the first particle beam path. 17. The particle beam nozzle of claim 12, further comprising a collimator configured to collimate the high-energy particles. 18. The particle beam nozzle of claim 12, wherein the particle beam nozzle is a single scattering nozzle. 19. The particle beam nozzle of claim 12, further comprising a collimator configured to collimate the high-energy particles, the collimator being configured to be separated from the particle beam nozzle using a transport system. 20. The particle beam nozzle of claim 12, further including a collision avoidance feature configured to change movement of the particle beam nozzle. 21. The particle beam nozzle of claim 12, wherein the beam scanner is configured to be added to or removed from the particle beam nozzle using an automated transport system. 