In order to determine the dielectric constant of a layer deposited on a semiconductor wafer (2), the density of the layer is obtained. To obtain that density, the wafer (2) without the layer is weighed in a weighing chamber (4) in which a weighing pan (7) supports the wafer on a weighing balance. The weight of the wafer is determined taking into account the buoyancy exerted by the air on the wafer (2). Then the layer is deposited on the wafer (2) and the weighing operation repeated. Alternatively a reference wafer may be used. If the material of the layer is known, the weight of the layer can be used to derive its density using a thickness measurement. Alternatively, if the density is known, the thickness can be obtained.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A computer-based method for determining a dielectric constant of a layer, comprising a carbon doped silicate glass film, deposited on a semiconductor wafer, the method comprising the steps of determining the density of the layer and using a computer in deriving the dielectric constant of the layer from the density of the layer using a predefined relationship between the density and the dielectric constant of the layer. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the density of the layer is determined by: measuring the mass or weight of the layer; measuring the thickness of the layer; and subsequently determining from said thickness measurements and said mass or weight measurements a value representing the density of the layer. 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein the step of measuring the weight or mass of said layer comprises comparing said semiconductor wafer both before and after said layer is formed thereon, with a calibration weight having the same density as said semiconductor wafer. 4. A method according to claim 2 wherein the step of measuring the weight or mass of said layer comprises comparing with a reference semiconductor wafer the weight of said semiconductor wafer having said layer. 5. A method according to claim 2 wherein the step of measuring the weight or mass of said layer comprises weighing said layer under vacuum using a balance. 6. A method according to claim 2 wherein a correction is made for the buoyancy exerted on the semiconductor wafer having said layer by air in the measurement of the mass or weight of said layer. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein the buoyancy exerted by air upon the semiconductor wafer is determined from the air density in the chamber which is determined by measuring the temperature, pressure and humidity in the chamber and calculating the air density from these parameters. 8. A method according to claim 7 wherein the air density is calculated by application of the formula: .rho..times..times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00007## where .rho..sub.air is the density of the air in g/cm.sup.3, P is the pressure in mBar, T is the temperature in .degree. C. and H is the 25 relative humidity in %. 9. A method according to claim 7 wherein the air density is calculated by using two calibration weights of known mass and of different known density yielding two simultaneous equations involving the measured weight and the air density from which the air density is calculated. 10. A method according to claim 6 wherein the buoyancy exerted on the wafer is calculated from the air density, the known density of the wafer, the density of a calibration weight used to calibrate the balance and the weight of the wafer by applying the following formula: .times..rho..rho..rho..rho..rho..rho. ##EQU00008## where B is the Buoyancy effect in grams, W.sub.w is weight of the wafer in grams, .rho..sub.w is the density of the wafer in g/cm.sup.3 and .rho..sub.w is the density of the calibration weight used to calibrate the weighing balance in g/cm.sup.3. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein the dielectric constant of the material is determined from the density thereof using the following formula: .alpha..rho..alpha..rho. ##EQU00009## where .di-elect cons. is the dielectric constant, .di-elect cons..sub.0 is the permittivity of free space, .rho. is the density of the layer and .alpha. is a constant for the layer. 12. A machine-readable medium containing instructions which, when executed, are operable to cause a computerized system to carry out a method for determining a dielectric constant of a layer, comprising a carbon doped silicate glass film, deposited on a semiconductor wafer, the method comprising the steps of: determining a value for the density of the layer; and deriving the dielectric constant of the layer from the value for the density of the layer using a predefined relationship between the density of the layer and the dielectric constant of the layer. 