Methods and systems for applying material onto a work piece. In one described method, path storing path data for a predetermined path for applying a material to a work piece is stored in an electronic database. Length data length data for the length of the material to applied to the work piece is stored in an electronic database. A controller determines when to cut the material. Using a material applicator apparatus, the material is applied to the work piece along the predetermined path. Using a cutting component in the material applicator apparatus, the material is cut.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for applying a material to a work piece comprising: storing path data for a predetermined path for applying a material to a work piece; storing length data for the length of the material to be applied to the work piece; determining when to cut the material using, at a minimum, the length of the material to be applied, the velocity of a material applicator apparatus applying the material, and the speed of a cutting component cutting the material; applying the material to the work piece along the predetermined path using the material applicator apparatus; and cutting the material at the determined time using the cutting component in the material applicator apparatus. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the path data is stored in an electronic database. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the length data is stored in an electronic database. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the length data is based on a starting point to apply the material and the velocity of the material applicator apparatus. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the material is a double-sided adhesive tape. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the predetermined path is non-linear. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising locking the material in place during the cutting of the material. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein cutting the material occurs prior to completion of applying the material to the work piece. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein determining when to cut the material using the speed of the cutting component cutting the material further comprises using a mechanical time constant and an electrical time constant of the cutting component. 10. A system for applying a material onto a work piece, the system comprising: a material applicator apparatus for applying material onto the work piece; and a controller configured for: storing path data for a predetermined path for applying the material to the work piece; storing length data for the length of the material to be applied to the work piece; determining when to cut the material using, at a minimum, the length of the material to be applied, the velocity of a material applicator apparatus applying the material, and the speed of a cutting component cutting the material; applying the material to the work piece along the predetermined path; and cutting the material at the determined time using the cutting component in the material applicator apparatus. 11. The system of claim 10 further comprising a robot configured to follow the determined path for applying the material. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the material applying apparatus is coupled to the robot. 13. The system of claim 11 wherein cutting the material occurs prior to completion of applying the material to the work piece. 14. The system of claim 10 wherein the length data is based on a starting point to apply the material and the velocity of a component of the material applicator apparatus. 15. The system of claim 10 further comprising a first electronic database for storing the path data. 16. The system of claim 15 further comprising a second electronic database for storing the length data. 17. The system of claim 10 further comprising wherein the cutting component further comprises a knife blade. 18. The system of claim 10 wherein the controller is further configured for locking the material in place during the cutting of the material. 19. The system of claim 10 wherein determining when to cut the material using the speed of the cutting component cutting the material further comprises using a mechanical time constant and an electrical time constant of the cutting component. 20. A computer-readable medium on which is encoded program code comprising: program code for storing path data for a predetermined path for applying a material to a work piece; program code for storing length data for the length of the material to be applied to the work piece; program code for determining when to cut the material using, at a minimum, the length of the material to be applied, the velocity of a material applicator apparatus applying the material, and the speed of a cutting component cutting the material; program code for applying the material to the work piece along the predetermined path using a material applicator apparatus; and program code for cutting the material at the determined time using a the cutting component in the material applicator apparatus. 21. The computer-readable medium of claim 20 wherein the path data is stored in an electronic database. 22. The computer-readable medium of claim 20 wherein the length data is stored in an electronic database. 23. The computer-readable medium of claim 20 wherein the length data is based on a starting point to apply the material and the velocity of the material applicator apparatus. 24. The computer-readable medium of claim 20 wherein the material is a double-sided adhesive tape. 25. The computer-readable medium of claim 20 wherein the predetermined path is non-linear. 26. The computer-readable medium of claim 20 further comprising program code for locking the material in place during the cutting of the material. 27. The computer-readable medium of claim 20 wherein cutting the material occurs prior to completion of applying the material to the work piece. 28. The computer-readable medium of claim 20 wherein determining when to cut the material using the speed of the cutting component cutting the material further comprises using a mechanical time constant and an electrical time constant of the cutting component. 