The invention describes devices for performing thermodynamic work on a fluid, such as pumps, compressors and fans. The thermodynamic work may be used to provide a driving force for moving the fluid. Work performed on the fluid may be transmitted to other devices, such as a piston in a hydraulic actuation device. The devices may include one or more electroactive polymer transducers with an electroactive polymer that deflects in response to an application of an electric field. The electroactive polymer may be in contact with a fluid where the deflection of the electroactive polymer may be used to perform thermodynamic work on the fluid. The devices may be designed to efficiently operate at a plurality of operating conditions, such as operating conditions that produce an acoustic signal above or below the human hearing range. The devices may be used in thermal control systems, such as refrigeration system, cooling systems and heating systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device, comprising: a diaphragm pump to draw fluid in from a pump inlet and expel fluid out through a pump outlet; a first valve including an electroactive material to allow fluid to flow into the diaphragm pump when the diaphragm pump draws fluid in from the pump inlet and to at least partially restrict fluid flow when the diaphragm pump expels fluid out through the pump outlet, wherein the electroactive material of the first valve includes an elastic modulus less than about 100 MPa; and a second valve including an electro active material to allow fluid to flow from the diaphragm pump when the diaphragm pump expels fluid out through the pump outlet and to at least partially restrict fluid flow when the diaphragm pump draws fluid in from the pump inlet, wherein the electroactive material of the second valve includes an elastic modulus less than about 100 MPa. 2. The device of claim 1, further comprising circuitry to apply voltages to the diaphragm pump and the first and second valves, wherein the electroactive material of the first valve is adapted to take a first shape to allow fluid to flow through the first valve in response to the circuitry applying a first voltage across the electroactive material, and the electroactive material of the first valve is adapted to take a second shape to at least partially restrict fluid from flowing through the first valve in response to the circuitry applying a second voltage across the electroactive material. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the second voltage is in a range from about 0 V/m to about 440 MV/m. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the material has a thickness between about 1 micrometer and 2 millimeters. 5. The device of claim 3, wherein the first voltage is about zero volts. 6. The device of claim 2, further comprising a fluid line connected to the first valve and the diaphragm pump to allow fluid to flow between first valve and the diaphragm pump. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the fluid line has a substantially elliptical cross section. 8. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a microprocessor; a cooling device connected to the microprocessor to receive heat from the microprocessor, and connected to the diaphragm pump; and wherein the diaphragm pump is adapted to pump fluid through the cooling device, the fluid pumped through the cooling device being to receive heat from the cooling device and remove the heat from the cooling device. 