This invention provides a process for treating a workpiece having a front side, a back side, and an outer perimeter. In accordance with the process, a processing fluid is selectively applied or excluded from an outer peripheral margin of at least one of the front or back sides or the workpiece. Exclusion and/or application of the processing fluid occurs by applying one or more processing fluids to the workpiece as the workpiece and corresponding reactor are spinning about an axis of rotation that is generally orthogonal to the center of the face of the workpiece being processed. The flow rate of the one or more processing fluids, fluid pressure, and/or spin rate are used to control the extent to which the processing fluid is selectively applied or excluded from the outer peripheral margin.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A process for treating an electrochemically processed workpiece, the workpiece having a first side, an opposing second side, and a peripheral edge defined between the first and second sides, comprising: (a) placing the workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion receiving the first side of the workpiece and a second chamber portion receiving the second side of the workpiece, the first chamber portion and the second chamber portion being defined by separable first and second reactor members that cooperatively support the workpiece; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the first side to the first fluid while excluding at least a major portion of the second side from exposure to the first fluid; and (c) supplying a second fluid to the second chamber portion to expose the second side to the second fluid, wherein at least one of the first and second fluids comprises an etchant for removal of a metal or oxide film from an exposed surface portion of the workpiece. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein first and second fluids are supplied concurrently to the first and second sides of the workpiece. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein the first and second fluids are supplied at differing time periods. 4. The process of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second fluids comprises an inert purge gas. 5. The process of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second fluids comprises an aqueous rinse. 6. The process of claim 1, further comprising excluding the first fluid from at least a major portion of the second side of the workpiece by creating a seal between the first side and the second side. 7. The process of claim 1, wherein the second fluid is supplied concurrently with the first fluid and assists in excluding the first fluid from at least a major portion of the second side. 8. The process of claim 1, wherein the first and second reactor members are spun together on a common axis during the supplying of the first and second fluids to the workpiece. 9. The process of claim 1, further comprising spinning the reactor chamber and workpiece while supplying the first fluid to etch the surface portion of the workpiece. 10. The process of claim 1, wherein the first and second chamber portions are defined by a unitary reactor housing. 11. The process of claim 1, wherein the metal film comprises copper. 12. The process of claim 1, further comprising exposing the peripheral edge of the workpiece to the first fluid. 13. The process of claim 12, further comprising exposing a perimeter edge portion of the second side to the first fluid. 14. The process of claim 1, further comprising excluding the first fluid from at least a major portion of the second side of the workpiece by removing the first fluid from a fluid outlet disposed in the reactor proximate the peripheral edge of the workpiece. 15. The process of claim 14, wherein the peripheral edge of the workpiece is exposed to the first fluid before the first fluid flows through the fluid outlet. 16. The process of claim 14, wherein a perimeter edge portion of the second side of the workpiece is exposed to the first fluid before the first fluid flows out through the fluid outlet. 17. The process of claim 1, wherein the etchant comprises an acid, selected and supplied at a level sufficient to etch a metal film or oxide film to a predetermined extent, and an oxidizing agent. 18. The process of claim 17, wherein the etchant comprises hydrofluoric acid and hydrogen peroxide. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the hydrofluoric acid is included at a level of 0.4 to 0.6 weight % and the hydrogen peroxide is included at a level of 5.0 to 15.0 weight %. 20. The process of claim 19 wherein the hydrofluoric acid is included at a level of 0.4 to 0.6 weight % and the ozone is present in solution at a level of 10 parts per million to an ozone saturated solution. 21. The process of claim 17, wherein the etchant comprises hydrofluoric acid and ozone in an aqueous solution. 22. The process of claim 17, wherein the etchant comprises sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide. 23. The process of claim 17, wherein the etchant comprises hydrofluoric acid and hydrochloric acid. 24. The process of claim 17 wherein the etchant comprises nitric acid and hydrofluoric acid. 25. A process for treating an electrochemically processed workpiece, the workpiece having a first side, an opposing second side, and a peripheral edge defined between the first and second sides, comprising: (a) placing the workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion receiving the first side of the workpiece and a second chamber portion receiving the second side of the workpiece; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the first side to the first fluid while excluding at least a major portion of the second side from exposure to the first fluid; (c) supplying a second fluid to the second chamber portion to expose the second side to the second fluid, wherein at least one of the first and second fluids comprises an etchant for removal of a metal or oxide film from an exposed surface portion of the workpiece; and (d) wherein a metal film is at least partially etched from the first side of the workpiece by the first fluid, the first fluid comprising an etchant. 26. The process of claim 25, wherein the first fluid comprises hydrofluoric acid and hydrogen peroxide, the hydrofluoric acid at a level of 0.4 to 0.6 weight percent. 27. The process of claim 25, wherein the first fluid is excluded from at least a major portion of the second side by providing at least one outlet defined in the reaction chamber proximate to a perimeter edge portion of the reaction chamber, through which outlet the first fluid flows. 28. The process of claim 25, wherein the first fluid is excluded from at least a maior portion of the second side by providing a seal included in the reaction chamber and sealing against the peripheral edge of the workpiece. 29. The process of claim 25, wherein the first fluid is excluded from at least a major portion of the second side by supplying a second fluid to the second side of the workpiece while supplying the first fluid to the first side of the workpiece. 30. The method of claim 25, further comprising spinning the workpiece while applying at least one of the first or second fluids to the workpiece. 31. A process for treating an electrochemically processed workpiece, the workpiece having a first side, an opposing second side and a peripheral edge defined between the first and second sides, comprising: (a) placing the workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion receiving the first side and a second chamber portion receiving the second side; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the first side and the peripheral edge to the first fluid while contacting no more than an outer margin of the second side with the first fluid, wherein the first fluid comprises an etchant for removal of a metal film or oxide film from an exposed surface portion of the workpiece, and wherein at least a portion of the first side and peripheral edge of the workpiece are contaminated with copper and the first fluid is an etchant capable of stripping the copper from the workpiece. 32. A process for treating an electrochemically processed workpiece, the workpiece having a first side, an opposing second side and a peripheral edge defined between the first and second sides, comprising: (a) placing the workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion receiving the first side and a second chamber portion receiving the second side; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the first side and the peripheral edge to the first fluid while contacting no more than an outer margin of the second side with the first fluid, wherein the first fluid comprises an etchant for removal of a metal film or oxide film from an exposed surface portion of the workpiece, and wherein at least a portion of the first side and the perimeter edge are contaminated with cobalt and the first fluid is an etchant capable of etching the cobalt from the exposed surface of the workpiece. 33. A process for treating an electrochemically processed workpiece, the workpiece having a first side, an opposing second side and a peripheral edge defined between the first and second sides, comprising: (a) placing the workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion receiving the first side and a second chamber portion receiving the second side; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the first side and the peripheral edge to the first fluid while contacting no more than an outer margin of the second side with the first fluid, wherein the first fluid comprises an etchant for removal of a metal film or oxide film from an exposed surface portion of the workpiece; and further comprising treating the first and second sides of the workpiece with a second fluid to remove unreacted cobalt followed by exposing the first side to the etchant. 34. A process for treating an electrochemically processed workpiece, the workpiece having a first side, an opposing second side and a peripheral edge defined between the first and second sides, comprising: (a) placing the workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion receiving the first side and a second chamber portion receiving the second side; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the first side and the peripheral edge to the first fluid while contacting no more than an outer margin of the second side with the first fluid, wherein the first fluid comprises an etchant for removal of a metal film or oxide film from an exposed surface portion of the workpiece, and wherein at least a portion of the back side and peripheral edge are coated in an oxide film and the first fluid comprises an acidic etchant capable of removing the oxide film from the exposed surface of the workpiece. 35. A process for treating an electrochemically processed workpiece, the workpiece having a first side, an opposing second side and a peripheral edge defined between the first and second sides, comprising: (a) placing the workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion receiving the first side and a second chamber portion receiving the second side; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the first side and the peripheral edge to the first fluid while contacting no more than an outer margin of the second side with the first fluid, wherein the first fluid comprises an etchant for removal of a metal film or oxide film from an exposed surface portion of the workpiece, and wherein the first chamber portion and the second chamber portion are defined by separable first and second reactor members that cooperatively support the workpiece. 36. The process of claim 35, wherein the first and second reactor members are spun together on a common axis during the supplying of the first and second fluids to the workpiece. 37. The process of claim 1, further comprising spinning the reaction chamber and workpiece while supplying the first fluid to etch the surface portion of the workpiece. 38. A process for treating an electrochemically processed workpiece, the workpiece having a first side, an opposing second side, and a peripheral edge defined between the first and second sides, comprising: (a) placing the workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion receiving the first side of the workpiece and a second chamber portion receiving the second side of the workpiece; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the first side to the first fluid while excluding at least a major portion of the second side from exposure to the first fluid; (c) supplying a second fluid to the second chamber portion to expose the second side to the second fluid, the first and second fluids being supplied concurrently to the first and second sides of the workpiece, and wherein the first fluid comprises the etchant and the second fluid comprises an aqueous rinse, the first and second fluids being concurrently supplied to the first and second sides, respectively, during etching of metal or oxide film from the first side of the workpiece. 39. The process of claim 38, further comprising supplying an aqueous rinse to the first and second sides after etching of the metal or oxide film from the first side of the workpiece. 40. The process of claim 39, further comprising spinning the workpiece to remove excess aqueous rinse after rinsing the first and second sides. 41. The process of claim 40, further comprising sLipplying heated inert gas to the first and second sides to dry the workpiece after spinning the workpiece to remove excess aqueous rinse. 42. The process of claim 38, wherein the etchant is supplied to the first side and the peripheral edge of the workpiece. 