The use of direct-write nanolithography to generate anchored, nanoscale patterns of nucleic acid on different substrates is described, including electrically conductive and insulating substrates. Modification of nucleic acid, including oligonucleotides, with reactive groups such as thiol groups provides for patterning with use of appropriate scanning probe microscopic tips under appropriate conditions. The reactive groups provide for chemisorption or covalent bonding to the substrate surface. The resulting nucleic acid features, which exhibit good stability, can be hybridized with complementary nucleic acids and probed accordingly with use of, for example, nanoparticles functionalized with nucleic acids. Patterning can be controlled by selection of tip treatment, relative humidity, and nucleic acid structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for generating nanoscale patterns of nucleic acid on a substrate comprising: modifying a scanning probe microscope tip to have a positive charge and form a modified tip; coating the modified tip with an ink composition comprising solvent, nucleic acid and inorganic salt; positioning the modified and coated scanning probe microscopic tip relative to a substrate so that the tip and substrate approach each other at a relative humidity sufficiently high so that nucleic acid is transferred from the tip to the substrate to form a stable nanoscale pattern on the substrate. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the tip is an atomic force microscope tip. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the tip is a hollow tip. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the tip is modified to have a positively charged amino group. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the relative humidity is at least about 25%. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the relative humidity is about 40% to about 100%. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is a deoxyribose nucleic acid. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is a single-stranded oligonucleotide. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is modified to comprise a spacer group and a terminal group which provides for chemisorption or covalent bonding to the substrate. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the substrate is an electrical conductor. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the substrate is an electrical insulator. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pattern has a lateral dimension of about 500 nm or less. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pattern has a lateral dimension of about 200 nm or less. 14. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pattern has a lateral dimension of about 10 nm to about 100 nm. 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid pattern can be hybridized with complementary nucleic acid. 16. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid pattern can be hybridized with complementary nucleic acid, wherein the complementary nucleic acid is part of a probe. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid pattern can be hybridized with complementary nucleic acid, wherein the complementary nucleic acid is part of a linker which links the nucleic acid pattern to a probe. 18. The method according to claim 1, wherein the substrate is also passivated. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein the tip is an atomic force microscope tip, the substrate is an electrical conductor, the nucleic acid is a deoxyribose nucleic acid, and the relative humidity is at least about 25%. 20. The method according to claim 1, wherein the tip is an atomic force microscope tip, the substrate is an electrical conductor, the nucleic acid is a deoxyribose nucleic acid, the relative humidity is at least about 25%, and the substrate is also passivated. 21. The method according to claim 1, wherein the tip is an atomic force microscope tip which is treated to contain a positive charge, the nucleic acid is a deoxyribose nucleic acid, and the relative humidity is about 25% to about 100%. 22. The method according to claim 1, wherein the tip is an atomic force microscope tip modified to be positively charged, the substrate is an electrical conductor or an electrical insulator, the nucleic acid is a deoxyribose nucleic acid which contains functional groups for covalent bonding or chemisorption to the substrate surface, the relative humidity is about 40% to about 50%, and the substrate is also passivated. 23. The method according to claim 1, wherein the tip is an atomic force microscope tip or a hollow tip, the substrate is an electrical conductor or an electrical insulator, the nucleic acid is a deoxyribose nucleic acid which contains functional groups for covalent bonding or chemisorption to the substrate surface, the relative humidity is at least about 25%, and the substrate is also passivated. 24. A nucleic acid nanoarray comprising a substrate and a plurality of patterns of nucleic acid on the substrate, wherein the patterns of nucleic acid are chemisorbed or covalently bonded to the substrate, have lateral dimensions of about 1,000 nm or less and are separated from each other by distances of 1,000 nm or less, and have a pattern density of at least 100,000 per square centimeter, and are hybridizable to complementary nucleic acids, and wherein the patterns of nucleic acid are formed by the method according to claim 1. 25. A method comprising: modifying a scanning probe microscope tip to have amino functionality to form a modified tip; coating the modified tip with an ink composition comprising nucleic acid; positioning the modified and coated scanning probe microscopic tip relative to a substrate so that the tip and substrate approach each other at a relative humidity sufficiently high so that nucleic acid is transferred from the tip to the substrate to form a stable patterns on the substrate. 26. A method according to claim 25, wherein the scanning probe microscope tip is an atomic force microscope tip. 27. A method according to claim 25, wherein the modifying is carried out with an aminosilane compound. 