The present invention relates to an apparatus and method for grasping, retaining, inverting, coating and transporting a plurality of frangible conical confection shells. The present invention also relates to a modular and reconfigurable manufacturing system for producing frozen cone confections and the like.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for grasping and retaining a frangible conical confection shell, said apparatus comprising: (a) a carrier plate having first and second sides, the carrier plate having a plurality of receiving apertures, each receiving aperture adapted to accept a frangible conical confection shell from the first side; (b) a pair of support plates residing adjacent to the second side of the carrier plate and slidably coupled thereto, each of the support plates having a plurality of receiving apertures located to be aligned with the receiving apertures in the carrier plate and adapted to accept the frangible conical confection shell; (c) a retaining pin associated with each receiving aperture and residing adjacent to a bottom side of each support plate, each retaining pin having a pair of opposed arms moveable between a closed position and an open position for grasping and releasing a confection shell, respectively; (d) a guide post associated with each retaining pin, the guide posts for slidably coupling the support plates to the carrier plate and for securing each retaining pin; (e) an actuator pair associated with each retaining pin and attached to the bottom side of each support plate, the actuator pairs provided to move the opposed arms of the retaining pins between the closed position and the open position upon slidable displacement of the support plates; and (f) an actuating means for causing slidable displacement of the support plates. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each retaining pin comprises a single loop of flexible material embodying the pair of opposed arms, the retaining pin adapted to be flexed between the open position and the closed position. 3. An apparatus according to claim 2 wherein each said pair of opposed arms includes flattened surfaces adapted to engage a conical shell. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the actuating means comprises one or more cams positioned along the length of a conveyor that transports the apparatus, the one or more cams operative to slidably displace the support plates upon contact with a portion thereof. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each aperture is provided with a conical shell retaining member that extends from the first side of the carrier plate. 6. An apparatus for grasping, inverting and a coating material to a portion of a frangible conical confection shell, the apparatus comprising: (1) a conical shell grasping an retaining apparatus, comprising: (a) a carrier plate having first and second sides, the carrier plate having a plurality of receiving apertures, each receiving aperture adapted to accept a frangible conical confection shell from the first side, (b) a pair of support plates residing adjacent to the second side of the carrier plate and slidably coupled thereto, each of the support plates having a plurality of receiving apertures located to be aligned with the receiving apertures in the carrier plate and adapted to accept the frangible conical confection shell, (c) a retaining pin associated with each receiving aperture and residing adjacent to a bottom side of each support plate, each retaining pin having a pair of opposed arms moveable between a closed position and an open position for grasping and releasing a confection shell, respectively, (d) a guide post associated with each retaining pin, the guide posts for slidably coupling the support plates to the carrier plate and for securing each retaining pin, (e) an actuator pair associated with each retaining pin and attached to the bottom side of each support plate, the actuator pairs provided to move the opposed arms of the retaining pins between the closed position and the open position upon slidable displacement of the support plates; and (f) an actuating means for causing slidable displacement of the support plates; (2) a transport mechanism adapted to move the conical shell grasping and retaining apparatus from a position wherein the conical shell is held in an upright posture to a position wherein the conical shell is held in an inverted posture, and to convey the conical shell while held in the inverted posture; and (3) a coating material application device disposed beneath the transport mechanism and arranged so as to contact a portion of the conical shell with the coating material while the conical shell is in the inverted posture. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the coating material application device propels the coating material upward, such that the interior portion of the conical shell is provided with a coating of the material while the conical shell is in the inverted posture. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the coating material application device is selected from the group consisting of sprayers and bubblers. 9. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the coating material application device is comprised of a liquid bath that is disposed under the transport mechanism and adapted to be lifted upward so as to provide a liquid coating to the open end edge of the conical shell. 