Improved apparatus, systems, and methods for inspecting a structure are provided that use a probe with sled appendages and an axial braking system. The probe uses pulse echo ultrasonic signals to inspect the structure. The sled appendages permit the probe to contact and ride along the surface of the structure and are rotatably connected and curved away from the surface of the structure to compensate for contoured surfaces and inspection around holes and edges. The axial braking system, in coordination with a motion control system moving the probe, fixes the positions of the sled appendages just before the probe travels over a hole or off an edge of the structure to prevent the probe from falling through the hole or off an edge and to permit the probe to return to the surface of the structure to continue inspection of the structure.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. An apparatus for non-destructive inspection of a structure, comprising: at least one pulse echo ultrasonic transducer configured for inspecting the structure as the transducer is moved over the structure; a frame configured for supporting the transducer; at least one sled appendage configured for supporting the frame while traveling over a surface of the structure and rotatably connected to the frame; and a braking system capable of affixing the respective positions of the frame and sled appendage in at least a first direction of motion about a first axis defined by the rotatable connection of the frame and the sled appendage. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the braking system comprises: a stationary brake plate connected to the sled appendage; a brake cylinder connected to the frame and comprising an extendable piston; and a first brake disc mounted to a first distal end of the piston protruding from the brake cylinder, wherein the braking system is capable of affixing the respective positions of the frame and the sled appendage in the first direction of motion by the brake cylinder extending the extendable piston to push the first brake disc against the stationary brake plate. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein at least one of the first brake disc and stationary brake plate comprises a rubber material affixed to at least one of a surface opposing the stationary brake plate and a surface opposing the brake disc, respectively. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the brake cylinder is a pneumatic brake cylinder. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a pair of sled appendages configured to rotate independently in the first direction, wherein each sled appendage comprises a stationary brake plate, wherein the extendable piston comprises a second distal end protruding from an opposing end of the brake cylinder as the first distal end, wherein a second brake disc is mounted to the second distal end, and wherein the braking system is capable of affixing the respective positions of the frame and the sled appendages in the first direction by the brake cylinder extending the piston to push the first and second brake discs against the stationary brake plates of the sled appendages. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising: a pair of sled appendages configured to rotate independently in the first direction, wherein each sled appendage comprises a stationary brake plate; a secondary brake cylinder connected to the frame and comprising a extendable secondary piston; and a secondary brake disc mounted to the distal end of the secondary piston protruding from the secondary brake cylinder; wherein the braking system is capable of affixing the respective positions of the frame and the sled appendages in the first direction by the brake cylinder extending the piston of the brake cylinder to push the first brake disc against the stationary brake plate of one of the sled appendages and the secondary brake cylinder extending the secondary piston of the secondary brake cylinder to push the secondary brake disc against the stationary brake plate of the other sled appendage. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the frame comprises a first portion and a second portion, wherein the first portion is rotatably connected to the sled appendage and the second portion is rotatably connected to the first portion, and wherein the frame is further configured for providing a second direction of motion about a second axis different from the first axis and defined by the rotatable connection between the first and second portions of the frame, and wherein the braking system is further capable of affixing the respective positions of the first and second portions of the frame in the second direction about the second axis. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the braking system comprises: two stationary brake plates, a first stationary brake plate connected to the sled appendage and a second stationary brake plate connected to the first portion of the frame; two brake cylinders, a first brake cylinder connected to the first portion of the frame and comprising a first extendable piston and a second brake cylinder connected to the second portion of the frame and comprising a second extendable piston; and two brake discs, a first brake disc mounted to the distal end of the first extendable piston protruding from the first brake cylinder and a second brake disc mounted to the distal end of the second extendable piston protruding from the second brake cylinder, wherein the braking system is capable of affixing the respective positions of the first portion of the frame and the sled appendage in the first direction by the first brake cylinder extending the first extendable piston to push the first brake disc against the first stationary brake plate, and wherein the braking system is capable of affixing the respective positions of the first and second portions of the frame in the second direction by the second brake cylinder extending the second extendable piston to push the second brake disc against the second stationary brake plate. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a transducer mounting supported by the frame and configured for supporting a plurality of transducers. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a bubbler shoe supported by the frame and configured for supporting a plurality of transducers and dispersing a couplant between the transducers supported thereby and the surface over which the apparatus travels; and a plurality of transducers supported by the bubbler shoe. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the bubbler shoe comprises: a first layer; a second layer disposed between the first layer and the surface over which the apparatus travels, wherein the first and second layers form an interior cavity; and a fluid inlet for dispersing a couplant into the interior cavity; wherein the first layer defines holes permitting wired connection to the transducers but configured to prevent the flow of the couplant through the holes; wherein the second layer defines holes through which the transducers extend toward the surface; and wherein the holes in the second layer are larger than transducers thereby permitting the couplant to pass around the transducers and through the second layer for individually coupling the transducers to the surface. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the first layer defines holes through which the transducers extend away from the surface providing access to the transducers for wired connection. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sled appendage is configured with a longitudinal axis extending perpendicular to the first axis, with a surface side adjacent the surface of the structure over which the apparatus travels, and with the surface side of opposing distal ends of the longitudinal axis curved away from the surface. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising a pair of sled appendages. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the frame is further configured for attachment to a motion control device for moving the apparatus over the structure for inspection. 16. A system for inspecting a structure, comprising: a motion control system; and a probe connected to and moved by the motion control system over the structure, the probe comprising: at least one pulse echo ultrasonic transducer configured for inspecting the structure as the transducer is moved over the structure; a frame configured for supporting the transducer; at least one sled appendage extending beyond the frame and configured for supporting the frame while traveling over a surface of the structure and rotatably connected to the frame; and a braking system in communication with the motion control system and capable of affixing the respective positions of the frame and sled appendage in at least a first direction of motion about a first axis defined by the rotatable connection of the frame and the sled appendage. 17. The system of claim 16, further comprising an extension coupler connected between the motion control system and the probe and configured for applying pressure to the probe for pressing the probe against the structure. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein the motion control system comprises electronic data representing the configuration of the structure, thereby providing the motion control system the ability to move the probe over the structure for inspection and the ability to communicate the location of holes and edges to the braking system. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein the motion control system is capable of providing a braking signal to the braking system of the probe based upon a determination of the location of the probe with respect to predetermined locations of holes and edges of the structure known to the motion control system. 20. A method for inspecting a structure, comprising the steps of: providing a probe against a surface of the structure and connected to a motion control system, the probe comprises: a frame for supporting at least one transducer; at least one pulse echo ultrasonic transducer for transmitting and receiving pulse echo ultrasonic signals; at least one sled appendage rotatably connected to the frame and for contacting the surface; and an axial braking system for fixing the position of the sled appendage and in communication with the motion control system connected to the probe; transmitting pulse echo ultrasonic signals from the transducer into the structure; receiving pulse echo ultrasonic signals at the transducer reflected from the structure; and temporarily fixing the position of the sled appendage for scanning a portion of the structure while only a portion of the probe is over the surface of the structure, wherein temporarily fixing the position of the sled appendage comprises the steps of: transmitting a first signal for locking the position of the sled appendages; receiving the first signal; locking the position of the sled appendages; transmitting a second signal for releasing the position of the sled appendages; receiving the second signal; and releasing the position of the sled appendages. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of coupling the pulse echo ultrasonic signals transmitted to and received from the structure using a couplant. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the probe comprises a plurality of transducers each transmitting and receiving pulse echo ultrasonic signals, and wherein the step of coupling the pulse echo ultrasonic signals comprises dispersing a couplant to each transducer to individually couple the pulse echo ultrasonic signals transmitted therefrom and received thereby separate from the coupling of the other pulse echo signals transmitted from and received by the other transducers. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of providing a probe against a surface of the structure comprises applying pressure to the probe to press the probe against the surface. 24. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of fixing the position of the sled appendage comprises activating the axial braking system. 25. The method of claim 20, wherein the sled appendage is rotatably connected to the frame about at least two axes thereby providing at least two directions of motion; and wherein the step of fixing the position of the sled appendage comprises fixing the respective position of the sled appendage in the at least two directions of motion by which the sled appendage is rotatably connected to the frame. 26. The method of claim 20, wherein the probe comprises at least two sled appendages; wherein the sled appendage are rotatably connected to the frame about at least one axis thereby providing at least one direction of motion; and wherein the step of fixing the position of the sled appendages comprises individually fixing the respective positions of the sled appendages in at least one direction of motion by which the sled appendages are rotatably connected to the frame. 