Compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of Aurora B. The compositions comprise oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acid encoding Aurora B. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of Aurora B expression and for diagnosis and treatment of diseases and conditions associated with expression of Aurora B are provided. Also provided are methods of using these compounds to modulate the growth of cancer cells, including p53-deficient cancer cells.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A chemically modified antisense compound 13 to 40 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding Aurora B (SEQ ID NO:4), wherein said compound is specifically hybridizable with said nucleic acid molecule encoding Aurora B, and wherein said antisense compound comprises at least an 8 nucleobase portion of SEQ ID NO: 12. 2. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein said antisense compound has a sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO 12. 3. The antisense compound of claim 2 which is single-stranded. 4. A chemically modified antisense compound 13 to 40 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding Aurora B (SEQ ID NO:4), wherein said compound is specifically hybridizable with said nucleic acid molecule encoding Aurora B, and wherein said antisense compound comprises at least an 8-nucleobase portion of SEQ ID NO: 47. 5. The antisense compound of claim 4, wherein said antisense compound has a sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO: 47. 6. The antisense compound of claim 5 which is single-stranded. 7. The modified antisense compound of claim 1, wherein the modified antisense compound comprises: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleotides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleotides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleotides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each nucleotide of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 8. The modified antisense compound of claim 2, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segement consisting often linked deoxynucleotides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleotides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleotides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleotide of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar; and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 9. The modified antisense compound of claim 4, wherein the modified antisense compound comprises: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleotides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleotides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleotides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each nucleotide of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 10. The modified antisense compound of claim 5, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segement consisting often linked deoxynucleotides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleotides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleotides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleotide of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar; and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 