The present invention provides a tactile sensing device comprising a tactile sensing layer, a pressure adjusting unit, at least one pressure sensing unit and a control unit. The tactile sensing layer includes a plurality of elastic elements, each of which has an inner space. The pressure adjusting unit coupled to the tactile sensing layer functions to provide and control variation of the pressure in the inner space of each elastic element. The control unit is coupled to the air supply unit and the at least one pressure sensing unit. The control unit is capable of receiving sensing signal from the at least one pressure sensing unit. In addition, the present invention also provides an apparatus whose surface is covered by the tactile sensing device. With the foregoing disclosure, it is capable of detecting the location and magnitude of the force acted on the tactile sensing device disposed on the surface of the apparatus through sensing the variation of pressure occurred in the elastic elements. Meanwhile, it is also able to change the softness of the tactile sensing device by controlling the air pressure inside the elastic elements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tactile sensing device, comprising: a tactile sensing layer, including a plurality of elastic elements, each having an inner space formed therein; a pressure adjusting unit, connected to the tactile sensing layer by a piping system for adjusting and controlling the inner space pressure of each elastic element; at least a pressure sensing unit, each for measuring a pressure of one of the plural elastic element corresponding thereto; and a control unit, coupled to the pressure adjusting unit and the at least one pressure sensing unit, capable of receiving a sensing signal detected by the at least one pressure sensing unit for using the received sensing signal to control the activation of the pressure adjusting unit and thus changing the degree of softness of the tactile sensing layer accordingly. 2. The tactile sensing device of claim 1, further comprising: a protective layer, formed on top of the tactile sensing layer. 3. The tactile sensing device of claim 1, wherein the at least one pressure sensing unit is arranged inside the inner space of each elastic element for detecting pressure variation of the inner space. 4. The tactile sensing device of claim 1, wherein the at least one pressure sensing unit is arranged for enabling the same to detect pressure variations in the piping connecting one corresponding elastic element to the pressure adjusting unit so that the pressure variation of the inner space of the corresponding elastic element is detected. 5. The tactile sensing device of claim 1, wherein the pressure adjusting unit further comprises: a plurality of pressure regulators, respectively connected to the plural elastic elements and the control unit; and a pressure source, connected to the plural pressure regulators and the control unit. 6. The tactile sensing device of claim 1, wherein the pressure adjusting unit further comprises: a plurality of multiplex switches, respectively connected to the plural elastic elements and the control unit; at least a pressure regulators, respectively connected to the plural multiplex switches and the control unit; and a pressure source, connected to the at least one pressure regulator and the control unit. 7. The tactile sensing device of claim 1, wherein the plural elastic elements are arranged as a matrix in the tactile sensing layer. 8. The tactile sensing device of claim 1, wherein the control unit is capable of using the sensing signal received from the at least one pressure sensing unit to recognize the magnitude and position of a touch contacting the tactile sensing layer. 9. A apparatus, comprising: a moving object; a tactile sensing layer, covering the moving object while being composed of a plurality of elastic elements, each having an inner space formed therein; a pressure adjusting unit, connected to the tactile sensing layer by a piping system for adjusting and controlling the inner space pressure of each elastic element; at least a pressure sensing unit, each for measuring a pressure of one of the plural elastic element corresponding thereto; and a control unit, coupled to the pressure adjusting unit and the at least one pressure sensing unit, capable of receiving a sensing signal detected by the at least one pressure sensing unit for using the received sensing signal to control the activation of the pressure adjusting unit and thus changing the degree of softness of the tactile sensing layer as well as controlling the moving object to interact accordingly. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: a protective layer, formed on top of the tactile sensing layer. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the at least one pressure sensing unit is arranged inside the inner space of each elastic element for detecting pressure variation of the inner space. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the at least one pressure sensing unit is arranged for enabling the same to detect pressure variations in the piping connecting one corresponding elastic element to the pressure adjusting unit so that the pressure variation of the inner space of the corresponding elastic element is detected. 13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the pressure adjusting unit further comprises: a plurality of pressure regulators, respectively connected to the plural elastic elements and the control unit; and a pressure source, connected to the plural pressure regulators and the control unit. 14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the pressure adjusting unit further comprises: a plurality of multiplex switches, respectively connected to the plural elastic elements and the control unit; at least a pressure regulators, respectively connected to the plural multiplex switches and the control unit; and a pressure source, connected to the at least one pressure regulator and the control unit. 15. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the plural elastic elements are arranged as a matrix in the tactile sensing layer. 16. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the control unit is capable of using the sensing signal received from the at least one pressure sensing unit to recognize the magnitude and position of a touch contacting the tactile sensing layer. 17. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the moving object is a robot or an active mechanism, integrating a plurality of body modules for movement expression. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the robot is selected from the group consisting of an industrial robotic arm, a mobile robot, an interactive robot, a guidance robot, a security robot, a homecare robot, an education robot, an entertainment robot, and a mobile platform. 19. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the moving object is a device selected from the group consisting of a toy with motion expression ability, a portable electronic device with movement expression ability, a billboard of complicated curved surfaces with movement expression ability, and a performance device with movement expression ability. 