An extensible task engine framework for humanoid robots. Robot instructions are stored as tasks and skills. Tasks are designed so that they can be executed by a variety of robots with differing configurations. A task can refer to zero or more skills. A skill can be designed for a particular configuration of robot. A task can be transferred from robot to robot. When executed on a particular robot, the task makes calls to one or more skills that can take advantage of the capabilities of that robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for storing instructions for a humanoid robot, the method comprising: storing a first set of instructions on a first electronic medium, the first set of instructions comprising instructions for a humanoid robot to perform a first task, the first set of instructions comprising a first reference, the first reference comprising a reference to a second set of instructions, the first set of instructions is capable of being executed by a plurality of humanoid robots of various configurations; and storing the second set of instructions on a second electronic medium, the second set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform a first skill. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second set of instructions is designed to be executed by a first configuration of humanoid robot. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first reference further comprises a reference to a third set of instructions. 4. The method of claim 3, the method further comprising: storing the third set of instructions on a third electronic medium, the third set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform the first skill. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the third set of instructions is designed to be executed by a second configuration of humanoid robot. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of instructions further comprises a second reference, the second reference comprising a reference to a third set of instructions, the method further comprising: storing the third set of instructions on a third electronic medium, the third set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform a second skill. 7. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: storing a third set of instructions on a third electronic medium, the third set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform a macrotask, the third set of instructions comprising a second reference, the second reference comprising a reference to the first set of instructions, the third set of instructions is capable of being executed by a plurality of humanoid robots of various configurations. 8. The method of claim 7, the method further comprising: storing a fourth set of instructions on a fourth electronic medium, the fourth set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform a second task. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the third set of instructions further comprises a third reference, the third reference comprising a reference to the fourth set of instructions. 10. A method for executing instructions for a humanoid robot, the method comprising: executing a first set of instructions, the first set of instructions comprising instructions for a humanoid robot to perform a first task, the first set of instructions includes a reference first reference, the first reference comprising a reference to a second set of instructions, the first set of instructions is capable of being executed by a plurality of humanoid robots of various configurations; and executing the second set of instructions, the second set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform a first skill. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the second set of instructions is designed to be executed by a first configuration of humanoid robot. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first reference further comprises a reference to a third set of instructions. 13. The method of claim 12, the method further comprising: executing the third set of instructions, the third set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform the first skill. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the third set of instructions is designed to be executed by a second configuration of humanoid robot. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the first set of instructions further comprises a second reference, the second reference comprising a reference to a third set of instructions, the method further comprising: executing the third set of instructions, the third set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform a second skill. 16. The method of claim 10, the method further comprising: executing a third set of instructions, the third set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform a macrotask, the third set of instructions comprising a second reference, the second reference comprising a reference to the first set of instructions, the third set of instructions is capable of being executed by a plurality of humanoid robots of various configurations. 17. The method of claim 16, the method further comprising: executing a fourth set of instructions, the fourth set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform a second task. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the third set of instructions further comprises a third reference, the third reference comprising a reference to the fourth set of instructions. 19. An robot control product for controlling a humanoid robot, the robot control product comprising an electronic medium, the electronic medium comprising: a first set of instructions, the first set of instructions comprising instructions for a humanoid robot to perform a first task, the first set of instructions comprising a first reference, the first reference comprising a reference to a second set of instructions, the first set of instructions is capable of being executed by a plurality of humanoid robots of various configurations; and the second set of instructions, the second set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform a first skill. 20. The robot control product of claim 19, wherein the second set of instructions is designed to be executed by a first configuration of humanoid robot. 21. The robot control product of claim 20, wherein the first reference further comprises a reference to a third set of instructions. 22. The robot control product of claim 21, the electronic medium further comprising the third set of instructions, the third set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform the first skill. 23. The robot control product of claim 22, wherein the third set of instructions is designed to be executed by a second configuration of humanoid robot. 24. The robot control product of claim 19, wherein the first set of instructions further comprises a second reference, the second reference comprising a reference to a third set of instructions, the electronic medium further comprising the third set of instructions, the third set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform a second skill. 25. The robot control product of claim 19, the electronic medium further comprising: a third set of instructions, the third set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform a macrotask, the third set of instructions comprising a second reference, the second reference comprising a reference to the first set of instructions, the third set of instructions is capable of being executed by a plurality of humanoid robots of various configurations. 26. The robot control product of claim 25, the electronic medium further comprising: a fourth set of instructions, the fourth set of instructions comprising instructions for the humanoid robot to perform a second task. 27. The robot control product of claim 26, wherein the third set of instructions further comprises a third reference, the third reference comprising a reference to the fourth set of instructions. 