An active micro-force sensor is provided for use on a micromanipulation device. The active micro-force sensor includes a cantilever structure having an actuator layer of piezoelectric material and a sensing layer of piezoelectric material bonded together. When an external force is exerted on the sensor, the sensor deforms and an applied force signal is recorded by the sensing layer. The applied force signal is then fed back to the actuating layer of the sensor via a servoed transfer function or servo controller, so that a counteracting deformation can be generated by the bending moment from the servoed actuating layer to quickly balance the deformation caused by the external micro-force. Once balanced, the sensor beam comes back to straight status and the tip will remain in its equilibrium position, thus the sensor stiffness seems to be virtually improved so that the accurate motion control of the sensor tip can be reached, especially, at the same time, the micro-force can also be obtained by solving the counteracting balance voltage applied to the actuating layer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An active micro-force sensor for use on a micromanipulation device, comprising: a cantilever structure in a form of a plate which extends lengthwise away from a connection point to the micromanipulation device, the cantilever structure having an actuator layer of piezoelectric material and a sensing layer of piezoelectric material; a contact tip or tool extending outwardly from the cantilever structure at a distal end from the connection point to the micromanipulation device a sensing circuit electrically coupled to the sensing layer and operable to measure a voltage thereon; and an actuating circuit configured to receive the voltage from the sensing circuit and operable to maintain rigidity of the cantilever structure during a manipulation operation by applying a voltage to the actuating layer, wherein the voltage applied to the actuating layer represents a force exerted on the contact tip or tool. 2. The active micro-force sensor of claim 1 wherein the sensing circuit is further operable to determine a rate of change of a force exerted on the contact tip or tool. 3. The active micro-force sensor of claim 1 wherein the cantilever structure having a substantially rectangular shape. 4. The active micro-force sensor of claim 1 wherein the piezoelectric material is further defined as a polyvinylidene fluoride material or a lead zirconate titanate material. 5. The active micro-force sensor of claim 1 wherein the actuator layer and sensing layer are bonded directly together using an insulating, elastic adhesive. 6. The active micro-force sensor of claim 1 further comprises a support layer interposed between the actuator layer and the sensing layer. 7. The active micro-force sensor of claim 6 wherein the support layer is comprised of a polyester material with a function of electrostatic shielding. 8. The active micro-force sensor of claim 6 wherein the sensing layer and actuating layer are symmetrically patterned onto the support layer using either screen printing conductive inks, metal masking during sputtered electrode deposition or chemically etching patterns by photolithographic techniques. 9. The active micro-force sensor of claim 1 wherein the actuating circuit includes a closed-loop linear-quadratic regulator servo controller that generates the voltage applied to the actuating layer. 10. The active micro-force sensor of claim 1 wherein the actuating circuit implements an active servo transfer function given by .function..function..infin..times..function..PHI.'.function..PHI.'.functi- on..times..PHI..function..function..PHI.'.function..PHI.'.function..rho..t- imes..times..function..omega..infin..times..times..function..PHI.'.functio- n..PHI.'.function..rho..times..times..function..omega. ##EQU00035## where f.sub.c(s) is the force exerted on the contact tip, V.sub.a(S) is the voltage applied to the actuating layer, L is the length of the cantilever, .PHI..sub.i(r) are the eigenfunctions satisfying an ordinary differential equation at r (023 r.ltoreq.L) along the cantilever, .PHI..sub.i'(L) and .PHI..sub.i'(0) represent the derivative eigenfunction at the free end (L) and the fixed end (0) with respect to position, respectively, s is the Laplace operator, .omega..sub.i are the natural frequencies of the cantilever corresponding to the different eigenvalues, L.sub.0 is the length of the sensor rigid tip, C.sub.a is a constant that depends on the geometry of the cantilever PVDF composite beam and .rho.A represents the mass per unit length of the cantilever. 11. An active micro-force sensor for use on a micromanipulation device, comprising: a cantilever structure in a form of a plate which extends lengthwise away from a connection point to the micromanipulation device, the cantilever structure having a support layer disposed between a sensing layer of piezoelectric material and an actuator layer of piezoelectric material a contact tip or a tool extending outwardly from the cantilever structure at a distal end from the connection point to the micromanipulation device a sensing circuit electrically coupled to the sensing layer and operable to detect deformation of the cantilever structure; and an actuating circuit electrically coupled to the sensing circuit and operable to counteract any deformation experienced by the cantilever structure by applying a voltage to the actuating layer, wherein the voltage applied to the actuating layer represents a force exerted on the contact tip or tool. 12. The active micro-force sensor of claim 11 wherein the sensing circuit is further operable to determine a rate of change of a force exerted on the contact tip. 13. The active micro-force sensor of claim 11 wherein the cantilever structure having a substantially rectangular shape. 14. The active micro-force sensor of claim 11 wherein the piezoelectric material is further defined as a polyvinylidene fluoride material or a lead zirconate titanate material. 15. The active micro-force sensor of claim 11 wherein the support layer is comprised of a polyester material. 16. A microforce sensing system, comprising: a force sensor having a contact tip or a tool extending outwardly from a cantilever structure and operable to detect a contact force exerted on the contact tip or the tool, wherein the cantilever structure includes an actuator layer of piezoelectric material and a sensing layer of piezoelectric material; and a processing circuit adapted to receive a sensing signal indicative of the contact force from the sensing layer and operable to feed a balance signal to the actuator layer which maintains rigidity of the cantilever structure, where the balance signal correlates to the contact force exerted on the contact tip or the tool. 17. A micro robotic system, comprising: a micromanipulator; an active force sensor having a cantilever structure in a form of a plate which extends lengthwise from a connection point to the micromanipulator and a contact tip or a tool extending outwardly from the cantilever structure at a distal end from the connection point the micromanipulator, wherein the cantilever structure includes an actuator layer of piezoelectric material and a sensing layer of piezoelectric material bonded together; and a processing circuit electrically coupled to the sensing layer to detect deformation of the cantilever structure and oPerable to counteract any deformation experienced by the cantilever structure by applying a voltage to the actuating layer, wherein the voltage applied to the actuating layer represents a force exerted on the contact tip or tool. 