A system enabling one or more persons to control one or more wireless electromechanical devices located in remote locations. The system includes a first personal computer (10) equipped with an internet connection. The first personal computer uses a web browser with a graphical control panel that enables the user to input control requests, and that includes an animated representation of the electromechanical device(s) such that the user can instantly see the anticipated behavior of the electromechanical device. Control signals are sent via the internet to a server (30) which in turn forwards the signals to one or more second computers (50). The second computer(s) transforms the information and sends behavioral signals to a transmitter (100) via a USB link (60). The wireless transmitter sends the signals to a wireless receiver (200) which is connected to an electromechanical device (300). In this manner, a plurality of electromechanical devices can be controlled by one or more persons located in multiple remote locations.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for controlling an electromechanical device comprising: a network; a first computer coupled to the network, the first computer executing a web browser representing a graphical control panel, the graphical control panel capable of receiving a command request from a first user; a second computer coupled to the network and a wireless transmitter, the second computer executing a software module capable of receiving the command request and sending the command request through the wireless transmitter; an electromechanical device for entertainment capable of receiving the command request from the wireless transmitter; wherein, the first user uses the graphical control panel on the first computer to send the command request over the network to the second computer; wherein the second computer receives the command request and wirelessly transmits the command request to the electromechanical device to entertain a second user; wherein the web browser executing on the first computer displays an animated representation of the electromechanical device, the animated representation mimicking the physical operation of the electromechanical device. 2. A system as recited in claim 1, wherein the transmitter is coupled to the second computer through a universal serial bus (USB) interface. 3. A system as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a third computer coupled to the network, the third computer executing a second web browser representing a second graphical control panel, the second graphical control panel capable of receiving a second command request from a third user, wherein the software module is capable of receiving the second command request and sending the second command request through the wireless transmitter, wherein, the third user uses the second graphical control panel on the third computer to send the second command request over the network to the second computer, wherein the second computer receives the second command request and wirelessly transmits the second command request to the electromechanical device to entertain the second user. 4. A system as recited in claim 3 further comprising: one or more additional computers coupled to the network executing web browsers representing graphical control panels, the graphical control panels capable of receiving command requests from one or more additional users, wherein the software module is capable of receiving the command requests and sending the command requests through the wireless transmitter, wherein the one or more additional users use the graphical control panels on the one or more additional computers to send command requests over the network to the second computer, wherein the second computer receives the command requests and wirelessly transmits the command requests to the electromechanical device to entertain the second user. 5. A system as recited in claim 4, wherein the server is coupled to the one or more computers, and the server is capable of receiving the command requests from the one or more additional computers and provide the command requests to the second computer. 6. A system as recited in claim 5, wherein the server includes logic able to determine which command request to send in the event of conflicting command requests. 7. A system as recited in claim 6, wherein the logic determines which command request to send to the software module by the number of command requests received for the command. 8. A system as recited in claim 1, wherein, in operation, the web browser is used to input desired behaviors which are displayed by the animated representation. 9. A system as recited in claim 1 further comprising, a server coupled to the first and second computer, the server capable of receiving the command request and transmitting the command request to the second computer over the network, the server configured to execute a server-side software configured to translate the command request received from the first computer into a wirelessly transmittable format for the second computer. 10. A system as recited in claim 9, wherein the server is able to serve a customizable web interface to the first computer, the customizable web interface capable of being used as an interface for controlling the electromechanical device. 11. A system as recited in claim 1, wherein the electromechanical device has a stimulation apparatus. 12. A system as recited in claim 11, wherein the stimulation apparatus is responsive to the command request. 13. A system as recited in claim 1 further comprising: a second web browser representing a second graphical control panel, the second web browser executing on the second computer, the second graphical control panel capable of receiving a second command request from the second user; a second wireless transmitter coupled to the first computer, the first computer executing a second software module capable of receiving the second command request and sending the second command request through the second wireless transmitter; a second electromechanical device for entertainment capable of receiving the second command request from the second wireless transmitter; wherein the second user uses the second graphical control panel on the second computer to send the second command request over the network to the first computer; wherein the first computer receives the second command request and wirelessly transmits the second command request to the second electromechanical device to entertain the first user. 14. An electromechanical device comprising: a communication device configured to receive a command from a remote computer transmitted over a network; a command logic coupled to the communication device, the command logic capable of receiving the command from the communication device, and the command logic configured to apply the command; a stimulation device coupled to the command logic and responsive to the applied command; wherein, the stimulation device is configured to be applied to a user's body; wherein, an animated representation of the electromechanical device is displayed on a web browser executing on the remote computer, the animated representation mimicking the physical operation of the electromechanical device. 15. An electromechanical device as recited in claim 14 further comprising, a feedback logic responsive to the state of the stimulation device, the feedback logic capable of sending information on the state of the stimulation device to the remote computer. 16. An electromechanical device as recited in claim 14, wherein the communication device receives the command request wirelessly from a local computer, wherein the local computer receives the command request from the remote computer. 17. A method for controlling an entertainment device comprising: providing a first computer; providing a second computer; sending of a command request by a first user, the first user using a graphical browser interface through a web browser on the first computer; receiving the command request by the second computer; sending the command request wirelessly to the entertainment device; applying the command by the entertainment device for the entertainment of a second user, wherein, the web browser on the first computer displaying an animated representation of the entertainment device, the animated representation mimicking the physical operation of the entertainment device. 18. A method as recited in claim 17, the entertainment provided is stimulation of the second users body. 