In a telemanipulation system for manipulating objects located in a workspace at a remote worksite by an operator from an operator's station, such as in a remote surgical system, the remote worksite having a manipulator with an end effector for manipulating an object at the workspace, such as a body cavity, a controller including a hand control at the control operator's station for remote control of the manipulator, an image capture device, such as a camera, and image output device for reproducing a viewable real-time image, the improvement wherein a position sensor associated with the image capture device senses position relative to the end effector and a processor transforms the viewable real-time image into a perspective image with correlated manipulation of the end effector by the hand controller such that the operator can manipulate the end effector and the manipulator as if viewing the workspace in true presence. Image transformation according to the invention includes translation, rotation and perspective correction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: positioning a surgical end effector within an internal surgical site in a patient body, the surgical end effector operatively associated with a hand controller via a processor so that the processor effects movement of the end effector in response to movement of the hand controller; capturing an image of the surgical end effector within the internal surgical site with an endoscope; displaying the image of the end effector so that the end effector defines a displayed position relative to the hand controller; moving the endoscope within the internal surgical site; statically realigning the displayed position of the image of the end effector with the hand controller, allowing the operator to view the end effectors as if emerging from the hand controller. 2. The telesurgical method of claim 1, wherein the statically realigning step is performed after the endoscope moving step. 3. The telesurgical method of claim 1, wherein the statically realigning step is performed so as to compensate for the endoscope moving step. 4. The telesurgical method of claim 1, further comprising dynamically realigning movement of the image of the end effector to correspond to movement of the hand controller by altering a coordinate transformation of the processor. 5. A surgical robotic system comprising: a slave manipulator movable with respect to a surgical site in an actual workspace; a camera system for capturing an image of the slave manipulator and the surgical site; a display for displaying a processed image to an operator in an apparent workspace; a master controller movable with respect to the displayed processed image in the apparent workspace; a processor for performing a transformation on the captured image to generate a processed image; wherein; the orientation of the slave manipulator relative to the surgical site in the displayed processed image defines a first vector; the orientation of the master controller relative to the displayed processed image of the surgical site in the apparent workspace defines a second vector; and the transformation on the captured image to generate a processed image aligns the first vector with the second vector. 6. The system of claim 5, the transformation comprising rotation of the captured image about a point on the captured image corresponding to the surgical site. 7. The system of claim 6, the transformation further comprising dynamic realignment of the image such that an apparent origin of the slavemanipulator in the displayed processed image is aligned with the master controller in the apparent workspace. 8. The system of claim 5, the transformation comprising sending of a signal from the processor to the camera instructing the camera to rotate the camera lens about its visual axis. 9. The system of claim 5, the slave manipulator comprising a pair of manipulators, and the master controller comprising a pair of handles. 10. The system of claim 5, the slave manipulator comprising a single end effector, and the master controller comprising a single hand controller. 11. The system of claim 5, the camera system comprising an endoscopic camera. 12. The system of claim 5, the camera system comprising two camera lenses, and the display comprising a stereo video display monitor. 13. The system of claim 12, the two camera lenses separated by 10 degrees. 