A welding torch has a nozzle; a contact tip positioned within the nozzle; a tube extending from the nozzle; wherein the tube has a gooseneck portion having a radius, and the tube has a second portion adjacent the nozzle which has a longitudinal axis which is substantially collinear with a longitudinal axis of the nozzle. The gooseneck tube has a single radius extending from a distal portion to a proximal portion of the tube.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A welding torch, comprising: a nozzle; a contact tip positioned within said nozzle; a tube extending from said nozzle; a handle connected to said tube; wherein said tube has a gooseneck portion having a single radius extending from said handle to said nozzle, and said tube has a second portion adjacent said nozzle which has a longitudinal axis which is substantially collinear with a longitudinal axis of said nozzle; a guide member positioned adjacent an end of said second portion of said tube; and, a welding wire which is fed through said tube and said nozzle, said welding wire remains unbiased as it is fed through said guide member, said tube, said contact tip, and said nozzle. 2. The welding torch of claim 1, further comprising a tip holder which retains said contact tip. 3. The welding torch of claim 2, wherein said tip holder comprises a plurality of passages for flow of shielding gas. 4. The welding torch of claim 1, further comprising a liner which surrounds a portion of welding wire extending through said tube. 5. The welding torch of claim 3, wherein said tip holder comprises a threaded opening for receiving a threaded portion of said contact tip. 6. The welding torch of claim 1, wherein said gooseneck portion of said tube comprises a bend in the range of 30 to 90 degrees. 7. The welding torch of claim 1, wherein said gooseneck portion of said tube comprises a bend in the range of 0 to 68 degrees. 8. A welding torch assembly, comprising: a contact tip; a handle; a tube extending between said contact tip and said handle; a guide member located on an end of said tube; wherein said tube has a gooseneck portion having a single radius extending between said handle and said contact tip, and said tube has a second portion adjacent said contact tip, and a welding wire, wherein said contact tip has a longitudinal axis substantially collinear with a longitudinal axis of said tube; wherein said welding wire is unbiased against said contact tip and said guide member as said welding wire is fed through said torch assembly. 9. The welding torch of claim 8, further comprising a protective sleeve adjacent an end of said gooseneck portion and covering at least a portion of said contact tip. 10. The welding torch of claim 9, wherein said portion of said contact tip is threaded. 11. The welding torch of claim 9, wherein said guide member is positioned within said gooseneck portion and is retained by a retainer member. 12. The welding torch of claim 11, wherein said retainer member comprises a tapered opening. 13. The welding torch of claim 8, further comprising a liner surrounding a welding wire positioned within said gooseneck portion. 14. The welding torch of claim 8, wherein said gooseneck portion of said tube comprises a bend in the range of 30 to 90 degrees. 15. The welding torch of claim 8, wherein said gooseneck portion of said tube comprises a bend in the range of 0 to 68 degrees. 