A laser monitoring and controlling apparatus is disclosed that includes a laser, a data server and a laser Graphical User Interface (GUI). In an embodiment, the apparatus further includes, an imaging means and means for displaying images from the imaging means on the GUI.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Laser monitoring and controlling apparatus including a laser, a data server and a laser control system including a laser Graphical User Interface (GUI), wherein the data server includes at least one third party software interface for communication with a software program that is not designed to operate a laser system, wherein said laser control system and said third party software interface operate concurrently such that the laser is monitored and controlled by the GUI and by the third party software. 2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data server includes a COM (Component Object Model) interface or DCOM interface. 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, comprising a laser operating module, and an ActiveX component serving as the data server. 4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, comprising at least one further data application. 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data server application is installed on a single computer or separate computers or platforms. 6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further including an additional controller connected to the laser by a digital interface. 7. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data server and laser GUI are provided on one platform and one or more further applications, COM enabled applications or other applications, are provided on a second computer or platform. 8. Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein the computers or platforms are connected over a local area network, wide area network, or internet. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein internet protocol or TCP/IP communication is used. 10. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the graphical user interface is displayed to a user on a suitable display means or run in the background. 11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an imaging means and means for displaying images from the imaging means on the GUI. 12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein the imaging means is arranged to provide images of a workpiece operated on by a laser beam emitted from the laser. 13. A laser monitoring or controlling apparatus comprising a laser, a laser controller or monitoring means, a laser control system including a Graphical User Interface (GUI) for monitoring and/or controlling laser operation, an imaging means for displaying images from the imaging means on the GUI, wherein said laser controller or monitoring means provides that a plurality of computer interface programs are independently coupled to the laser monitoring or controlling apparatus for independently monitoring or controlling laser operation, at least one of said plurality of computer interface programs being not designed to operate a laser system, wherein said laser control system and each of said plurality of computer interface programs operate concurrently such that the laser is monitored and controlled by the GUI and by each of the plurality of computer interface programs. 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein a single display displays the GUI with, as required, the image displayed. 15. Apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the imaging means is a video or still camera mounted so as to view the workpiece as it is being operated on by a laser beam from the laser. 16. A laser control system for controlling the operation of a laser that is coupled to an articulated assembly, said system comprising a data server that includes a laser and robot control system including a software interface that provides that a plurality of computer interface programs may be independently coupled to the laser controlling apparatus and to the articulated assembly for independently controlling laser operation and robotic articulation of the articulated assembly, each of said plurality of computer interface programs being not designed to operate a laser system or a robotic assembly, wherein said laser and robot control system and each of said plurality of computer interface programs operate concurrently such that the laser and the articulated assembly are monitored and controlled by the software interface and by each of the plurality of computer interface programs. 17. The system as claimed in claim 16, wherein the data server includes a component object module interface. 18. The system as claimed in claim 16, wherein the data server includes a distributed component object module interface. 19. The system as claimed in claim 16, wherein the system includes a plurality of computer processing units. 20. The system as claimed in claim 16, wherein at least one of computer interface programs may be run at a location that is remote from the laser and articulated assembly. 