The present invention provides an enhanced method and apparatus for locating a valve stem aperture in a wheel. The invention includes a locating station having an overhead camera to scan the wheel. The scanned image of the wheel is received by a controller and is divided into radial zones. The controller locates the radial zone that defines the valve stem aperture from the scanned image of the wheel. The wheel then moves along an assembly line to a stemming station. A robot is positioned at the stemming station. The robot supports a valve stem insertion tool and a valve stem aperture locating sensor. When the wheel reaches the stemming station, the robot moves the valve stem insertion tool and the valve stem aperture locating sensor to the radial zone that defines the valve stem aperture. The robot moves the valve stem aperture locating sensor along the radial zone that defines the valve stem aperture and locates the valve stem aperture. The robot then moves the valve stem insertion tool into position and inserts a valve stem in the valve stem aperture.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of inserting a valve stem into a valve stem aperture defined by a wheel movable along an assembly line, said method comprising the steps of: positioning a controller, an identification station to identify configuration of the wheel and a valve stem insertion station along the assembly line and cooperable with said identification station and said controller to locate the valve stem aperture and insert a valve stem into the valve stem aperture; identifying a location of the valve stem aperture by dividing the image of the wheel scanned by said identification station into a plurality of segments defined by radial lines to determine the segment defining the valve stem aperture and the location of the segment relative the assembly path; and signaling a valve stem insertion device of said valve stem insertion station with the segment where the valve stem aperture is located to align the segment with said valve stem insertion device to insert the valve stem into the valve stem aperture. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1, including the step of locating a central axis of the valve stem aperture to align the valve stem with the central axis of the valve stem aperture before inserting the valve stem into the valve stem aperture. 3. The method as set forth in claim 2, including the step of signaling said controller an image of the wheel thereby enabling said controller to identify the wheel. 4. The method as set forth in claim 3, determining the location of the valve stem relative to the segment from the image generated by said identification station. 5. The method as set forth in claim 4, wherein said step of signaling said valve stem insertion device the segment the valve stem aperture is located is further defined by said controller signaling said valve stem insertion device. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1, further including the step of providing a robotic manipulator to said valve stem insertion station, wherein said valve stem insertion device and said valve stem location device are mounted to said robotic manipulator. 7. The method as set forth in claim 1, further including the step of moving said valve stem insertion device to the segment signaled by said identification station for inserting the valve stem into the valve stem aperture. 8. The method as set forth in claim 1, further including the step of moving said valve stem location device to the segment signaled by said identification station. 9. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said identifying step is further defined as identifying the location of the valve stem aperture relative to the segment defined by the wheel at said identification station with a first camera and wherein said locating step is further defined as locating a central axis of the valve stem aperture with a second camera associated with said valve stem aperture location device thereby aligning the valve stem with the central axis of the valve stem aperture. 