A reflective element assembly for a variable reflectance vehicular mirror includes a front substrate having a transparent conductive coating disposed on a second surface thereof, and a rear substrate having an electrically conductive metallic reflective coating disposed on a third surface thereof. An opacifying layer may be disposed around a perimeter border region of the second surface. The electrically conductive metallic reflective coating includes a principal reflecting region and a tab-out portion continuing from the principal reflecting region at least out to generally proximate a perimeter edge of the rear substrate. An electrically non-conductive perimeter border region of the third surface is substantially devoid of the electrically conductive metallic reflective coating. An electrically conductive element may at least partially establish electrical continuity to the tab-out portion and may provide a site at the fourth surface of the rear substrate for electrical connection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mirror reflective element assembly for a variable reflectance vehicular mirror, said mirror reflective element assembly comprising: a front substrate having a first surface and a second surface, said front substrate having a transparent electrically conductive coating disposed on said second surface; wherein said front substrate has an opacifying layer disposed around a perimeter border region of said second surface, and wherein said opacifying layer is at least one of (a) disposed between said second surface of said front substrate and said transparent electrically conductive coating and (b) disposed over said transparent electrically conductive coating; a rear substrate having a third surface and a fourth surface, said rear substrate comprising a perimeter edge around its perimeter and between said third surface and said fourth surface; said rear substrate having an electrically conductive metallic reflective coating disposed on said third surface; said electrically conductive metallic reflective coating comprising a principal reflecting region and a tab-out portion, said tab-out portion continuing from said principal reflecting region at least out to generally proximate said perimeter edge of said rear substrate; an electrically non-conductive perimeter border region of said third surface being substantially devoid of said electrically conductive metallic reflective coating; an electrically non-conductive perimeter seal disposed between and joining and spacing said front and rear substrates, said perimeter seal bounding a cavity between said front substrate and said rear substrate; an electro-optic medium disposed within said cavity between said front and rear substrates bounded by said perimeter seal, said electro-optic medium disposed between said transparent electrically conductive coating of said second surface and said electrically conductive metallic reflective coating of said third surface; wherein a portion of said perimeter seal contacts said tab-out portion and wherein another portion of said perimeter seal contacts said electrically non-conductive perimeter border region of said third surface; wherein said other portion of said perimeter seal partially overlaps said electrically conductive metallic reflective coating; an electrically conductive element at least partially establishing electrical continuity to said tab-out portion; wherein a first portion of said electrically conductive element extends inboard of said perimeter edge at said fourth surface of said rear substrate, and wherein a second portion of said electrically conductive element extends across said perimeter edge between said third and fourth surfaces of said rear substrate; wherein said first portion of said electrically conductive element provides a site at said fourth surface for electrical connection to said electrically conductive metallic reflective coating; and wherein said rear substrate and said front substrate are dimensioned such that no cross dimension of said rear substrate is larger than a corresponding cross dimension of said front substrate. 2. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein electrical connection to said tab-out portion is at least partially established by at least one of (a) a conductive epoxy, (b) a conductive adhesive, (c) a conductive silicone, and (d) a conductive potting material. 3. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein a third portion of said electrically conductive element is between said front and rear substrates and extends inboard of said perimeter edge of said rear substrate toward said perimeter seal and is outboard of said perimeter seal. 4. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein said tab-out portion wraps at least partially around said perimeter edge of said rear substrate. 5. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein said other portion of said perimeter seal partially overlaps said electrically conductive metallic reflective coating substantially entirely along said electrically non-conductive perimeter border region of said third surface of said rear substrate, and wherein said portion of said perimeter seal contacts said tab-out portion across the entire width dimension of said tab-out portion. 6. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein said opacifying layer is disposed between said second surface of said front substrate and said transparent electrically conductive coating. 7. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein said opacifying layer is disposed between said second surface of said front substrate and said transparent electrically conductive coating on said second surface and comprises a reflective metallic layer. 8. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein said opacifying layer is disposed over said transparent electrically conductive coating. 9. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein said opacifying layer comprises a reflective metallic layer. 10. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein said opacifying layer comprises a light absorbing layer. 11. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein said opacifying layer comprises at least one of (a) a frit layer, (b) a metal oxide layer, and (c) a metallic layer. 12. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein said perimeter seal is substantially concealed by said opacifying layer so as to be not readily viewable by a person viewing said mirror reflective element assembly when said mirror reflective element assembly is mounted in a vehicle. 13. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein said rear substrate has a dimension that is less than a corresponding dimension of said front substrate so as to establish an overhang region of said front substrate relative to said rear substrate, said overhang region of said front substrate at least partially coinciding with said tab-out portion. 14. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 13, wherein said opacifying layer is disposed at said overhang region of said front substrate, and wherein said overhang region at least partially reduces viewability of said electrically conductive element by a person viewing said mirror reflective element assembly when said mirror reflective element assembly is mounted on vehicle. 15. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 14 further comprising an electrically insulating layer applied over said transparent electrically conductive coating on said second surface of said front substrate and at least partially along said overhang region of said front substrate that generally corresponds with said recessed edge portion of said rear substrate. 16. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein said front and rear substrates are joined by said perimeter seal as uncut sheets of glass, said front and rear substrates being cut into mirror shapes after said perimeter seal is disposed therebetween. 17. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 1, wherein said electrically conductive metallic reflective coating comprises a multilayer coating. 18. A mirror reflective element assembly for a variable reflectance vehicular mirror, said mirror reflective element assembly comprising: a front substrate having a first surface and a second surface, said front substrate having a transparent electrically conductive coating disposed on said second surface; wherein said front substrate has an opacifying layer disposed around a perimeter border region of said second surface, and wherein said opacifying layer is at least one of (a) disposed between said second surface of said front substrate and said transparent electrically conductive coating and (b) disposed over said transparent electrically conductive coating; a rear substrate having a third surface and a fourth surface, said rear substrate comprising a perimeter edge around its perimeter and between said third surface and said fourth surface; said rear substrate having an electrically conductive metallic reflective coating disposed on said third surface; said electrically conductive metallic reflective coating comprising a principal reflecting region and a tab-out portion, said tab-out portion continuing from said principal reflecting region at least out to generally proximate said perimeter edge of said rear substrate; an electrically non-conductive perimeter border region of said third surface being substantially devoid of said electrically conductive metallic reflective coating; an electrically non-conductive perimeter seal disposed between and joining and spacing said front and rear substrates, said perimeter seal bounding a cavity between said front substrate and said rear substrate; wherein said perimeter seal is substantially concealed by said opacifying layer so as to be not readily viewable by a person viewing said mirror reflective element assembly when said mirror reflective element assembly is mounted in a vehicle; an electro-optic medium disposed within said cavity between said front and rear substrates bounded by said perimeter seal, said electro-optic medium disposed between said transparent electrically conductive coating of said second surface and said electrically conductive metallic reflective coating of said third surface; wherein a portion of said perimeter seal contacts said tab-out portion and wherein another portion of said perimeter seal contacts said electrically non-conductive perimeter border region of said third surface; wherein said other portion of said perimeter seal partially overlaps said electrically conductive metallic reflective coating; an electrically conductive element at least partially establishing electrical continuity to said tab-out portion; wherein a first portion of said electrically conductive element extends inboard of said perimeter edge at said fourth surface of said rear substrate, and wherein a second portion of said electrically conductive element extends across said perimeter edge between said third and fourth surfaces of said rear substrate; wherein said first portion of said electrically conductive element provides a site at said fourth surface for electrical connection to said electrically conductive metallic reflective coating; wherein said rear substrate and said front substrate are dimensioned such that no cross dimension of said rear substrate is larger than a corresponding cross dimension of said front substrate; wherein said rear substrate has a dimension that is less than a corresponding dimension of said front substrate so as to establish an overhang region of said front substrate relative to said rear substrate, said overhang region of said front substrate at least partially coinciding with said tab-out portion; and wherein said opacifying layer is disposed at said overhang region of said front substrate, and wherein said overhang region at least partially reduces viewability of said electrically conductive element by a person viewing said mirror reflective element assembly when said mirror reflective element assembly is mounted on vehicle. 19. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 18, wherein electrical connection to said tab-out portion is at least partially established by at least one of (a) a conductive epoxy, (b) a conductive adhesive, (c) a conductive silicone, and (d) a conductive potting material. 20. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 18, wherein a third portion of said electrically conductive element is between said front and rear substrates and extends inboard of said perimeter edge of said rear substrate toward said perimeter seal and is outboard of said perimeter seal. 21. The mirror reflective element assembly of claim 18, wherein said opacifying layer comprises at least one of (a) a light absorbing layer, (b) a reflective layer, (c) a frit layer, (d) a metal oxide layer, and (d) a metallic layer. 