A robotic surgical tool includes an elongate shaft having a working end and a shaft axis, and a pair of linking arms each having a proximal end and a distal end. The proximal end is pivotally mounted on the working end of the shaft to rotate around a first pitch axis to produce rotation in first pitch. A wrist member has a proximal portion pivotally connected to the distal end of the linking arm to rotate around a second pitch axis to produce rotation in second pitch. An end effector is pivotally mounted on a distal portion of the wrist member to rotate around a wrist axis of the wrist member to produce rotation in distal roll. The wrist axis extends between the proximal portion and the distal portion of the wrist member. The elongate shaft is rotatable around the shaft axis to produce rotation in proximal roll. At about 90.degree. pitch, the wrist axis is generally perpendicular to the shaft axis. The proximal roll around the shaft axis and the distal roll around the wrist axis do not overlap. The use of the linking arms allows the end effector to be bent back beyond 90.degree. pitch. The ability to operate the end effector at about 90.degree. pitch and to bend back the end effector renders the wrist mechanism more versatile and adaptable to accessing hard to reach locations, particularly with small entry points such as those involving spinal, neural, or rectal surgical sites.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A minimally invasive surgical instrument comprising: an elongate shaft having a working end and a proximal end; at least one linking arm having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end being pivotally mounted on the working end of the shaft to rotate around a first pitch axis which is nonparallel to the shaft axis; a wrist member having a distal portion and a proximal portion pivotally connected to the distal end of the linking arm to rotate around a second pitch axis which is nonparallel to the shaft axis; a first pitch pulley coaxial with the first pitch axis, and a second pitch pulley coaxial with the second pitch axis; a first pitch elongate element engaging the first and second pitch pulleys in a first circumferential orientation, the first pitch elongate element running through the elongate shaft; an end effector pivotally mounted on the distal portion of the wrist member to rotate around a wrist axis of the wrist member, the wrist axis extending between the proximal portion and the distal portion of the wrist member. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second pitch elongate element engaging the first and second pitch pulleys in a second circumferential orientation opposite the first circumferential orientation, the second pitch elongate element running through the elongate shaft. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, the first and second pitch elongate elements being two segments of a single elongate element. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a central extension in the wrist member, a third pitch pulley coaxial with the first pitch axis, and a fourth pitch pulley coaxial with the second pitch axis, the first and second pitch pulleys disposed on a first side of the central extension, and the third and fourth pitch pulleys disposed on a second side of the central extension opposite the first side; a second pitch elongate element engaging the third and fourth pitch pulleys in a second circumferential orientation opposite the first circumferential orientation, the second pitch elongate element running through the elongate shaft. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, the end effector pivotally mounted on the wrist member by a base, the base rotatable about the wrist axis; the apparatus further comprising first and second tangent surfaces attached to the bottom of the base, the first and second tangent surfaces coaxial with the wrist axis. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising: first and second distal roll pulleys disposed on one side of the central extension, and third and fourth distal roll pulleys disposed on an opposite side of the central extension, the first and third distal roll pulleys coaxial with the second pitch axis, the second and fourth distal roll pulleys coaxial with the first pitch axis; a first distal roll elongate element engaging the first tangent surface and the first and second distal roll pulleys, an end of the first distal roll elongate element running through the elongate shaft; and a second distal roll elongate element engaging the second tangent surface and the third and fourth distal roll pulleys, an end of the second distal roll elongate element running through the elongate shaft. 7. The instrument of claim 6, the first and second tangent surfaces being portions of a single tangent pulley. 8. The instrument of claim 6, the first tangent surface being a first tangent pulley, and the second tangent surface being a second tangent pulley. 9. The instrument of claim 5, the end effector further comprising first and second parts pivotally mounted on the base by a pivotal connection defining a yaw axis. 10. The instrument of claim 9, the first and second parts each having a pulley portion, first and second yaw elongate elements engaged with the pulley portions of the first and second parts, respectively, the first and second yaw elongate elements running through the elongate shaft. 11. The instrument of claim 10, the first and second pitch elongate elements, the first and second distal roll elongate elements, and the first and second yaw elongate elements coupled to actuators disposed adjacent the proximal end of the elongate shaft. 