A mail traying apparatus which trays or sweeps mail envelopes, which are positioned in a mail stacker bin, into a mail tray and to deliver the same to an outbound conveyor or cart. The apparatus includes a robot having a robot arm mounted thereon with the robot arm having a mail tray support at the tool end thereof. The robot moves the robot arm to a source of empty mail trays so that an empty mail tray may be positioned in the mail tray support. The robot then moves the empty tray to the discharge end of the mail stacker bin, sweeps the mail into the mail tray, and then moves the filled mail tray to an outbound conveyor or cart.
Claims We claim: 1. The method of processing mail envelopes, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a mail processing machine including a stacker bin, having infeed and discharge ends, into which mail envelopes are placed in an upstanding position so as to be standing on edge; (b) providing a source of empty mail trays remote from the stacker bin; (c) providing a robot including a movable robot arm having a mail tray support and mail sweeper secured to the tool end thereof with the robot being positioned relative to the stacker bin and the source of empty mail trays so that the mail tray support and mail sweeper may be moved therebetween by the robot; (d) causing the robot arm to move to the source of empty mail trays; (e) positioning an empty mail tray in the mail tray support; (f) moving the robot arm so that the empty mail tray in the mail tray support thereon is positioned below the stacker bin at the discharge end thereof; (g) positioning the mail sweeper relative to the envelopes and moving of the mail tray support away from the stacker bin causing the mail envelopes in the bin to be swept into the mail tray; (h) moving the robot arm and the filled mail tray to a mail tray discharge area; (i) removing the filled mail tray from the mail tray support; and (j) repeating the steps of (d)-(i). 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the mail tray discharge area comprises an outbound discharge conveyor and wherein the robot arm places the filled mail tray onto the outbound discharge conveyor. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the source of empty mail trays comprises a stack of empty mail trays positioned within one another in a nested relationship. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein a mail tray denester mechanism is associated with the stack of empty mail trays. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein a denester mechanism is provided and wherein the method further includes the step of denesting the uppermost empty mail tray in the stack to enable the uppermost mail tray to be positioned in the mail tray support. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the source of empty mail trays comprises a plurality of stacks of empty mail trays with the mail trays in each stack being positioned within one another in a nested relationship. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein a denester mechanism is associated with each of the stacks of empty mail trays. 8. The method of claim 1 further includes the step of providing one or more additional mail processing machines and further includes the step of selectively moving the robot arm and mail tray support between the source of empty mail trays and the bins of the mail processing machines. 9. In combination with a mail processing machine including a stacker bin, having infeed and discharge ends, into which mail envelopes are placed in an upstanding position so as to be standing on edge, comprising: a robot including a movable robot arm; a mail tray support on said robot arm; said mail tray support adapted to have a mail tray supported thereon; a mail sweeper mechanism on said robot arm; said robot adapted to move said robot arm and mail tray support to a position adjacent the discharge end of the stacker bin whereby said mail sweeper mechanism may sweep the mail envelopes in the stacker bin into a mail tray positioned on said mail tray support; a mail tray denester assembly positioned remotely of said robot; said mail tray denester assembly including: (a) an upstanding mail tray receptacle having upper and lower ends; (b) said lower end of said mail tray receptacle being in communication with a source of empty mail trays; (c) a vertically movable tray support positioned within said mail tray receptacle and being selectively movable from a first lower position to a second raised position; (d) said mail tray receptacle adapted to have a plurality of empty stacked mail trays positioned therein in a nested condition with respect to one another on said tray support; (e) a tray lift mechanism at the upper end of said mail tray receptacle which is adapted to lift the uppermost mail tray in said mail tray receptacle to a position spaced above the remaining mail trays in the receptacle whereby said uppermost mail tray is separated from the remaining mail trays for further handling; said robot arm being movable to a position adjacent the lifted uppermost tray in said mail tray receptacle whereby said uppermost tray may be positioned in said mail tray support for movement to said stacker bin. 10. The combination of claim 9 further comprising a tray engagement apparatus which is adapted to engage the mail tray immediately below the uppermost tray so that the empty mail trays positioned below the uppermost empty mail tray will be held in position as the uppermost empty mail tray is raised to its said position above the remaining empty mail trays. 11. The combination of claim 10 wherein said tray engagement means comprises a substantially horizontally movable plunger mounted on said mail tray receptacle. 12. The combination of claim 9 wherein said tray lift mechanism comprises a vacuum lifter which is movable into engagement with the said uppermost tray. 13. In combination: a mail processing machine including a stacker bin, having infeed and discharge ends, into which mail envelopes are placed in an upstanding position so as to be standing on edge; a robot including a support having an elongated robotic arm, having inner and outer ends, extending therefrom; said robotic arm being vertically movable with respect to said support; said robotic arm being rotatable about a vertical axis with respect to said support; said outer end of said robotic arm being movable towards and away from said support; a mail tray support selectively pivotally secured to the outer end of said robotic arm about a horizontal axis transverse to the longitudinal axis of said robotic arm; said mail tray support adapted to have a mail tray supported thereon; a mail sweeper mechanism on said robotic arm; said robot adapted to move said robotic arm and said mail tray support to a position adjacent the discharge end of said stacker bin whereby said mail sweeper mechanism may sweep the mail envelopes in said stacker bin into the mail tray positioned on said mail tray support. 14. The combination of claim 13 wherein said mail sweeper includes a first plate which is rotatably movable between first and second positions with respect to said mail tray support. 15. The combination of claim 14 wherein said first plate is also longitudinally movable with respect to said mail tray support. 16. The combination of claim 14 wherein said first plate, when in its said first position, being in a non-engagement mode with respect to the envelopes. 17. The combination of claim 16 wherein said first plate, when in its said second position, being in an engagement position with respect to the envelopes in the bin. 18. The combination of claim 17 wherein said mail sweeper also includes a second plate which is spaced from said first plate and which is movable between first and second positions. 19. The combination of claim 18 wherein said second plate, when in its said first position, being in a non-engagement mode with respect to the envelopes. 20. The combination of claim 19 wherein said second plate, when in its said second position, engaging one end of the stacked envelopes. 21. The combination of claim 20 wherein said first plate, when in its said second position, engages one end of the stacked envelopes and said second plate, when in its said second position, engaging the other end of the stacked envelopes. 