Robotic devices, systems, and methods for use in robotic surgery and other robotic applications, and/or medical instrument devices, systems, and methods includes both a reusable processor and a limited-use robotic tool or medical treatment probe. A memory the limited-use component includes machine readable code with data and/or programming instructions to be implemented by the processor. Programming of the processor can be updated by shipping of new data once downloaded by the processor from a component, subsequent components can take advantage of the updated processor without repeated downloading.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: a robotic arm having a tool holder and a signal interface; a plurality of robotic tools, each tool receivable by the tool holder for manipulation by the robotic arm; a processor having a memory and coupled to the robotic arm, the memory comprising robotic tool data associated with the plurality of tools and the processor directing movement of a robotic tool received by the tool holder using associated tool data from the processor memory; a first additional tool, the first additional tool having a memory with additional tool data or code, the first tool transmitting the additional tool data to the processor via the tool signal interface, the processor storing the additional tool data or code in the processor memory after the first additional tool is removed from the tool holder. 2. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the tools comprises surgical robotic instruments having a plurality of different surgical end effectors, the robotic system comprising a surgical robotic system. 3. The robotic system of clam 1, wherein the first additional tool has a tool type identifier and further comprising a second additional tool having the tool type identifier, wherein the processor stores the additional tool data from the first additional tool in the memory, and wherein the processor, in response to the tool type identifier of the second additional tool, directs movement of the robotic arm using the additional tool data from the processor memory when the second additional tool is received by the tool holder. 4. The robotic system of claim 3, wherein the processor stores the additional tool data in an update list of the processor memory, the update list comprising data associated with a plurality of additional tools of different types, the processor memory also comprising a native list of data associated with the plurality of tools. 5. The robotic system of claim 4, wherein the processor gives priority to the additional tool data of the update list over the tool data of the native list in response to a mounted tool identifier being included in both the update list and the native list. 6. The robotic system of claim 4, wherein the memory further comprises a reject tool list, the processor inhibiting use of a second additional tool having a rejected tool identifier included on the reject tool list. 7. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises machine readable code for directing movement of the tools, the machine readable code of the processor pre-dating the first additional tool and embodying a software revision identifier, wherein the additional tool data comprises a minimum software revision, the processor inhibiting use of the first additional tool if the software revision pre-dates the minimum software revision. 8. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises machine readable code for directing movement of the tools, the machine readable code embodying a software revision identifier, wherein a second tool has machine readable code embodying tool data including tool-movement directing data and a maximum software revision, the processor directing movement of the second tool using tool data from the memory in response to the software revision identifier of the processor being older than the maximum software revision of the second tool. 9. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein at least some of the plurality of tools comprise legacy tools, the additional tool having tool-directing data for which no corresponding tool-directing data is stored on the legacy tools. 10. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the processor makes use of the additional tool data in response to an indicator of the additional tool data. 11. The robotic system of claim 1, further comprising an input device coupled to the processor and receiving an input movement, the processor effecting an output movement of a tool received by the tool holder corresponding to the input movement so that the robotic system comprises a master-slave robotic system. 12. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein a first configuration time corresponds to configuring the processor for directing movement using the tool data from the memory, wherein a second configuration time corresponds to configuring the processor for directing movement using additional tool data downloaded from the mounted tool, the second configuration time being longer than the first configuration time, and wherein the processor is adapted to limit cumulative configuration time by storing the additional tool data from the first tool in the memory and using the stored additional data for at least one of removal and subsequent re-attachment of the first additional tool, and a second additional tool. 13. A medical instrument system comprising: a plurality of medical instruments, each instrument having a tissue treatment delivery surface and an interface; a processor having an interface sequentially couplable with the instrument interfaces, the processor having a memory storing code or data, the processor controlling treatment delivered by the tissue treatment delivery surfaces of the instruments using the stored code or data; a first additional instrument having a tissue treatment delivery surface, an instrument memory, and an interface coupled to the instrument memory so as to provide communication between the instrument memory and the processor when the additional instrument interface is coupled to the processor interface, the processor configured to store update code or data from the instrument memory in the memory of the processor; and a second additional tool having a tissue treatment delivery surface and an interface, the processor controlling treatment delivered by the tissue treatment delivery surface of the second additional instrument using the update code or data communicated from the instrument memory of the first additional instrument. 14. The medical instrument system of claim 13, wherein the plurality of medical instruments comprise a plurality of medical instrument types, wherein each medical instrument has an instrument memory coupled to the interface, the instrument memory storing a type identifier, each instrument type having associated instrument type, the processor directing treatment via the tissue treatment surface of an instrument coupled with the processor using associated instrument data in response to the type identifier of the coupled instrument, wherein the second additional instrument has the same type identifier as the first additional instrument. 15. A robotic method comprising: sequentially mounting a plurality of robotic tools of different types to a robotic arm; directing movement of each sequentially mounted robotic tool with a processor using data or code associated with the mounted robotic tool type, the data or code for the plurality of tools stored in a memory of the processor; mounting a first additional robotic tool to the robotic arm; transmitting update tool data or code from a memory of the first tool to the processor; and directing movement of a tool other than the first tool by the processor using the update tool data or code. 16. The robotic method of claim 15, wherein the tools comprises surgical robotic tools having a plurality of different surgical end effectors, and wherein the movement of the surgical end effectors is directed by a surgeon moving an input device so as to perform a surgical procedure, the robotic arm and input device being components of a master-slave surgical robotic system. 17. The robotic method of claim 15, wherein a first configuration time corresponds to configuring the processor for directing movement using the tool data from the memory, wherein a second configuration time corresponds to configuring the processor for directing movement using additional tool data downloaded from a mounted tool, the second configuration time being longer than the first configuration time, further comprising detaching the first additional tool from the robotic arm and mounting a second additional tool to the robotic arm, the first additional tool and the second additional tool having the same tool type, wherein the processor stores the additional tool data from the first additional tool in the memory of the processor, and wherein the processor directs movement of the second additional tool using the additional tool data from the memory of the processor. 18. The robotic method of claim 17, further comprising storing the additional tool data in an update list of the memory, the update list comprising data associated with a plurality of additional tool types, the memory also comprising a native list of data associated with the types of the plurality of tools. 19. The robotic method of claim 18, further comprising giving priority to the additional tool data of the update list over the tool data of the native list when a mounted tool identifier is included in both the update list and the native list. 20. The robotic method of claim 15, further comprising inhibiting use of a second additional tool having a rejected tool identifier included on a reject tool list of the processor memory. 21. The robotic method of claim 15, wherein the processor comprises a memory storing system capability data and wherein the additional tool data comprises a minimum system capability, the processor inhibiting use of the first additional tool if the system capability data is compatible with the minimum system capability of the first additional tool. 22. The robotic method of claim 15, wherein the memory of the processor stores a software revision identifier, wherein a second tool has a tool memory with tool data including a maximum software revision, the processor directing movement of the second tool using tool data from the memory in response to the software revision identifier of the processor being older than the maximum software revision of the second tool. 23. The robotic method of claim 15, wherein at least some of the plurality of tools comprise legacy tools, and further comprising transmitting a tool type identifier from each legacy tool mounted on the arm to the processor, wherein the processor identifies the associated tool data in the processor memory using the transmitted tool type identifier. 24. A method comprising: mounting a first robotic tool to a robotic arm; directing movement of the mounted first tool with a processor using first tool data, the first tool data stored in a memory of the processor prior to mounting the first tool; mounting a second robotic tool to the robotic arm, the second robotic tool having a memory with data associated with the second robotic tool; transmitting the second tool data from the second tool to the processor; and directing movement of the mounted second tool with the processor using the transmitted second tool data; wherein the second tool data is not stored in the memory of the processor prior to mounting the second tool; the method further comprising mounting a third robotic tool to the robotic arm, determining the third robotic tool has a tool identifier corresponding to a tool identifier of the second tool, and directing movement of the mounted third tool by the processor using the transmitted second tool data. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising mounting the third tool to the robotic arm prior to mounting of the second tool and directing movement of the third tool using third tool data, wherein the second tool data supersedes the third tool data for tools having the tool identifier after the second tool is mounted. 26. A medical instrument system revision method comprising: sequentially coupling a plurality of medical instruments to a processor, each instrument having a tissue treatment delivery surface and an interface; controlling treatment delivered by the tissue treatment delivery surfaces of the sequentially coupled instruments using data stored in a memory of the processor; coupling a first additional instrument to the processor, the first additional instrument having a tissue treatment delivery surface and an instrument memory; transmitting update data from the memory of the additional instrument to the processor; storing the transmitted update data in the memory of the processor; and controlling treatment delivery from a tissue treatment delivery surface of a second additional tool using the stored update data. 27. The medical instrument system of claim 26, further comprising decoupling the additional instrument from the processor and recoupling the additional instrument to the processor, and controlling treatment delivery with the recoupled additional instrument using the stored update data. 28. A robotic system comprising: providing a plurality of systems, each system having a processor, to a plurality of customers; distributing to the customers a plurality of peripheral or limited-use devices, each device coupleable to a system so as to perform a primary function; and updating programming code or data of the processors from memories of the coupled devices; and altering the performance of the primary function in response to the updated programming code or data after the devices are decoupled from the systems. 