The present invention provides systems and methods for performing robotically-assisted surgical procedures on a patient. In particular, a three-component surgical system is provided that includes a non-sterile drive and control component, a sterilizable end effector or surgical tool and an intermediate connector component that includes mechanical elements for coupling the surgical tool with the drive and control component and for transferring motion and electrical signals therebetween. The drive and control component is shielded from the sterile surgical site, the surgical tool is sterilizable and disposable and the intermediate connector is sterilizable and reusable. In this manner, the intermediate connector can be sterilized after a surgical procedure without damaging the motors or electrical connections within the drive and control component of the robotic system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical system forearm assembly for transferring motion from a surgical drive component to a surgical tool, the forearm assembly comprising: a) a housing adapted to couple with the surgical drive component; b) a carriage coupled with the housing, the carriage adapted to couple with the surgical tool; and c) a sterile drape between the carriage and the surgical tool, the drape having a hole to allow the carriage to be coupled with the surgical tool, wherein the carriage comprises a plurality of openings, wherein the housing comprises a plurality of rotatable shafts that are configured to transfer motion from the surgical drive component through the plurality of openings of the carriage to the surgical tool. 2. The forearm assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of rotatable shafts is configured to provide at least four degrees of freedom to the surgical tool. 3. The forearm assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of rotatable shafts is configured to provide yaw and pitch of the surgical tool about a wrist of a wrist unit of the tool, rotation of the wrist unit about a Z axis, and actuation of the tool. 4. The forearm assembly of claim 3, wherein the actuation of the tool comprises a member selected from the group consisting of opening and closing jaws, opening and closing scissors, opening and closing graspers, application of clips, and application of staples. 5. A robotic surgical system forearm assembly for transferring motion from a surgical drive component to a surgical tool, the forearm assembly comprising: a) a housing adapted to couple with the surgical drive component; b) a carriage coupled with the housing, the carriage adapted to couple with the surgical tool; and c) a sterile drape between the carriage and the surgical tool, the drape having a hole to allow the carriage to be coupled with the surgical tool, the forearm assembly further comprising an integral cannula, wherein the integral cannula comprises a force sensing element coupled with a force sensing bearing within the cannula. 6. The forearm assembly of claim 5, wherein the force sensing element comprises a member selected from the group consisting of a strain gauge and a force sensing resistor. 7. The forearm assembly of claim 5, wherein the force sensing bearing is adapted to support the surgical tool during surgery and to allow the tool to rotate and move axially through a central bore of the bearing. 8. A robotic surgical system forearm assembly for transferring motion from a surgical drive component to a surgical tool, the forearm assembly comprising: a) a housing adapted to couple with the surgical drive component; b) a carriage coupled with the housing, the carriage adapted to couple with the surgical tool; and c) a sterile drape between the carriage and the surgical tool, the drape having a hole to allow the carriage to be coupled with the surgical tool, wherein the housing further comprises at least one carriage cable drive extending between two or mare rotatable pulleys, wherein the at least one carriage cable drive is configured to move the carriage along a Z-axis of the housing. 