The invention is an adhesive composition comprising a) one or more silane functional prepolymers comprising a polyether or a polyolefin backbone and silane moieties capable of silanol condensation; b) one or more isocyanate functional prepolymers comprising a polyether backbone and isocyanate moieties; c) one or more organotin compounds or titanate or zirconate compounds having one or more ligands comprising a hydrocarbyl phosphate ester or a hydrocarbyl sulfonate ester, or a mixture thereof; d) a tertiary amine or an anhydrous strong organic acid which is miscible with the polymer and enhances the bonding of the adhesive to a coated unprimed substrate. In one embodiment, the invention is a method of bonding two or more substrates together using the adhesive compositions of this invention. The process comprises applying an adhesive as described herein to one or more of the substrates; contacting the one or more substrates with the adhesive disposed between the substrates; and allowing the adhesive to cure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An adhesive composition comprising a blend of: a) one or more silane functional prepolymers comprising a polyether or a polyolefin backbone and silane moieties capable of silanol condensation; b) one or more isocyanate functional prepolymers comprising a polyether backbone and isocyanate moieties wherein the isocyanate used is 1,3 phenylene diisocyanate, 1,4 phenylene diisocyanate, 2,4 tolylene diisocyanate, 2,6 tolylene diisocyanate, mixtures of 2,4 tolylene diisocyanate and 2,6 tolylene diisocyanate, diphenyl methane 2,4' diisocyanate, diphenyl methane 4,4' diisocyanate, mixtures of diphenyl methane 2,4' diisocyanate and diphenyl methane 4,4' diisocyanate, naphthalene 1,5 diisocyanate, triphenyl methane 4,4', 4'' triisocyanate or polymeric derivatives of such isocyanates; c) one or more organotin compounds, titanates or zirconates having one or more ligands comprising a hydrocarbyl phosphate ester or a hydrocarbyl sulfonate ester, or a mixture thereof; and d) one or more anhydrous strong organic acids which are miscible with the prepolymers and enhances the bonding of the adhesive to a coated unprimed substrate. 2. An adhesive composition according to claim 1 wherein the silane functional prepolymer is present in an amount of about 1 to about 70 parts by weight and the isocyanate functional prepolymer is present in an amount of about 1 to about 70 parts by weight based on 100 parts of the adhesive formulation. 3. An adhesive according to claim 2 wherein the acid is an organic phosphoric acid or organic sulfonic acid. 4. An adhesive according to claim 3 wherein the titanate or zirconate corresponds to the formula (R.sup.3O).sub.p--M--(OR.sup.4)q wherein: M is separately in each occurrence Ti or Zr; R.sup.3 is separately in each occurrence is C.sub.1-12 alkyl or C.sub.7-12 alkaryl; R.sup.4 is separately in each occurrence ##STR00010## R.sup.5 is separately in each occurrence C.sub.1-12 alkyl; R.sup.6 is separately in each occurrence a C.sub.1-12 alkyl or C.sub.7-20 alkaryl group; p is separately in each occurrence 1 or 2; and q is separately in each occurrence 2 or 3; wherein the sum of p and q is 4. 5. An adhesive composition according to claim 4 wherein M is Ti. 6. An adhesive composition according to claim 5 wherein the sulfonic acid corresponds to the formula ##STR00011## and the phosphoric acid corresponds to the formula ##STR00012## wherein: R.sup.7 is separately in each occurrence a C.sub.1-12 alkyl or C.sub.7-30 alkaryl group; R.sup.8 is separately in each occurrence C.sub.1-10 alkyl; C.sub.6-12 aryl or C.sub.6-12 alkaryl; r is separately in each occurrence 1 or 2; s is separately in each occurrence 1 or 2; wherein the sum of r and s is 3. 7. An adhesive composition according to claim 6 comprising: a) from about 20 to about 70 parts by weight of one or more silane functional polymers; b) from about 2 to about 20 percent by weight of one or more isocyanate functional prepolymers; c) from about 0.05 to about 0.5 parts by weight of one or more organo titanates or zirconates; and d) from about 0.1 to about 0.45 parts by weight of one or more strong organic acids: wherein the total parts by weight is 100. 8. An adhesive according to claim 7 wherein the weight average molecular weight of the polyether polyol used to prepare the silane functional prepolymer is from about 1,000 to about 50,000. 9. An adhesive according to claim 8 wherein the weight average molecular weight of the isocyanate functional prepolymer is about 2,500 to about 40,000. 10. A method of bonding two or more substrates together which comprises applying an adhesive according to claim 1 to one or more of the substrates; contacting the substrates such that the adhesive is disposed between the substrates; and allowing the adhesive to cure so as to bond the substrates together. 11. A method of bonding glass to a substrate which comprises: A) applying an adhesive according to claim 1 to either of glass or the substrate; B) contacting the glass and the substrate such that the adhesive is disposed between the substrate and the glass; and C) allowing the adhesive to cure to bond the glass to the substrate. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein the window has a primed or unprimed ceramic fit disposed about the periphery of the window and the adhesive is bonded to the ceramic frit. 13. A method according to claim 11 wherein the substrate is the flange of an automobile adapted for holding a glass window into the automobile. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein the flange is coated with a paint. 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein the flange is unprimed when it is contacted with the adhesive composition. 16. A method according to claim 13 wherein the window is unprimed when contacted with the adhesive composition. 17. A method according to claim 12 wherein the flange is coated with an acid resistant paint. 18. A composition according to claim 1 wherein the isocyanate used to prepare the isocyanate functional prepolymer is diphenyl methane 4,4' diisocyanate or polymeric derivatives thereof. 19. A composition according to claim 18 wherein the isocyanate used to prepare the isocyanate functional prepolymer is diphenyl methane 4,4' diisocyanate. 