A method of extending media cartridge radio frequency identification (RFID) performance physical range includes mounting a plurality of passive antenna couplers in a first sending/receiving device, connecting the couplers to a radio transmitter/receiver in the first sending/receiving device, and communicating wirelessly between the first sending/receiving device and a second radio transmitter/receiver in a second sending/receiving device within a predetermined physical range.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of extending media cartridge radio frequency identification (RFID) performance physical range, the method comprising: mounting a plurality of passive antenna couplers in a media cartridge RFID tag, wherein the passive antenna couplers comprise two or more inductive elements electrically connected together and to a capacitive element to form a loop circuit; connecting the couplers to a radio transmitter/receiver in the media cartridge RFID tag; and communicating wirelessly between the media cartridge RFID tag and a second radio transmitter/receiver in a second sending/receiving device within a predetermined physical range. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the second sending/receiving device is at least one of a media cartridge RFID tag, a media cartridge transport system, and a media cartridge robotic arm. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising mounting a plurality of second passive antenna couplers in the second sending/receiving device, and connecting the second couplers to the second radio transmitter/receiver in the second sending/receiving device. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein at least one of the plurality of second passive antenna couplers comprises two or more inductive elements electrically connected together and to a capacitive element to form a loop circuit. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the values of the inductive elements and the capacitive element are effective values for the respective locations of the inductive elements and the capacitive elements. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the plurality of passive antenna couplers comprises an open-ended coupler having an inductive element, a capacitive element, and a shaped element that are serially connected. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the shaped element comprises a receiving/radiating element shaped as branches or tendrils of at least one of wires, traces, and metallic strips. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the shaped element comprises a receiving/radiating element shaped as at least one of a single wire, trace, and metallic strip. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein communicating comprises transmitting and receiving at least one of data, commands, and meta-data. 10. A system for extending media cartridge radio frequency identification (RFID) performance physical range, the system comprising: a plurality of passive antenna couplers mounted in a media cartridge RFID tag, wherein the plurality of passive antenna couplers comprises two or more inductive elements electrically connected together and to a capacitive element to form a loop circuit; a radio transmitter/receiver connected to the couplers in the media cartridge RFID tag; and a second radio transmitter/receiver in a second sending/receiving device for communicating wirelessly with the media cartridge RFID tag within a predetermined physical range. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the first and second sending/receiving device is at least one of a media cartridge RFID tag, a media cartridge transport system, and a media cartridge robotic arm. 12. The system of claim 10 further comprising a plurality of second passive antenna couplers mounted in the second sending/receiving device and connected to the second radio transmitter/receiver in the second sending/receiving device. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein at least one of the plurality of passive antenna couplers comprises two or more inductive elements electrically connected together and to a capacitive element to form a loop circuit. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the values of the inductive elements and the capacitive element are effective values for the respective locations of the inductive elements and the capacitive elements. 15. The system of claim 10 wherein at least one of the plurality of passive antenna couplers comprises an open-ended coupler having an inductive element, a capacitive element, and a shaped element that are serially connected. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein the shaped element comprises a receiving/radiating element shaped as branches or tendrils of at least one of wires, traces, and metallic strips. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the shaped element comprises a receiving/radiating element shaped as at least one of a single wire, trace, and metallic strip. 18. The system of claim 10 wherein communicating comprises transmitting and receiving at least one of data, commands, and meta-data. 19. For use in an information storage system, a method of extending media cartridge radio frequency identification (RFID) performance physical range, the method comprising: mounting a plurality of passive antenna couplers in a media cartridge RFID tag, wherein the plurality of passive antenna couplers comprises two or more inductive elements electrically connected together and to a capacitive element to form a loop circuit; connecting the couplers to a radio transmitter/receiver in the media cartridge RFID tag; mounting a second plurality of passive antenna couplers in a second sending/receiving device; connecting the second couplers to a second radio transmitter/receiver in the second sending/receiving device; and communicating wirelessly between the media cartridge RFID tag and the second radio transmitter/receiver within a predetermined physical range. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the first and second sending/receiving device is at least one of a media cartridge RFID tag, a media cartridge transport system, and a media cartridge robotic arm. 