An electronic data transport system includes a mobile access point and a carrier for moving the mobile access point over a surface and/or water route. The mobile access point includes a communications module for wirelessly transmitting data to and receiving data from one or more client devices when the client device is in proximity to the mobile access point.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of transporting data, the method comprising the steps of: (a) causing a mobile access point to physically traverse a route along which a plurality of client devices are located, the client devices having at most local area connection access; (b) as the mobile access point enters into proximity to a first client device, causing the mobile access point to bidirectionally communicate with the proximate first client device, accepting outgoing data from the proximate client device and transmitting to the proximate client device any previously received data intended therefore; and (c) storing, at the mobile access point, data received from the proximate first client device for subsequent transmission to a network access point or directly to a second client device when the mobile access point enters into proximity to the network access point or the second client device. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one client device is mobile. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of physically traversing comprises at least one of carrying, driving, riding, hauling, bicycling, boating, floating and air gliding the mobile access point along the route. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of transmitting, in batch mode, at least some of the outgoing data onto a network, and receiving, in batch mode, data from the network intended for at least some of the client devices. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the network comprises the Internet. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein at least some of the outgoing data is a request for a web page and further comprising the steps of: retrieving the requested web page and at least some additional web pages linked to the requested web page; and storing the requested web page and additional web pages for transmission to the requesting client device when the mobile access point is proximate to the requesting device. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile access point wirelessly communicates with the client devices as it traverses the route. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving the data comprises correcting errors in the data. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of transmitting at least some of the outgoing data to the second client device. 