An inkjet printhead is provided having at least one printhead module and drive electronics removably mounted to a support frame. The printhead module(s) has inkjet integrated circuits, a support member supporting and carrying ink for the inkjet integrated circuits and an electrical connector for connecting drive signals to the inkjet integrated circuits from the drive electronics so as to control ink ejection therefrom. The drive electronics is removable from the support frame independently of the printhead module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An inkjet printhead comprising: at least one printhead module having inkjet integrated circuits, a support member commonly supporting and commonly carrying ink for the inkjet integrated circuits and an electrical connector for connecting drive signals to the inkjet integrated circuits; drive electronics arranged to control ink ejection of at least one of the inkjet integrated circuits via the electrical connector; a support frame on which the printhead module and the drive electronics are removably arranged; at least one mounting element which removably mounts the drive electronics to the support frame independently of the printhead module, a connector arrangement at one end of the support frame which connects the drive electronics and the inkjet integrated circuits to power supply and data inputs; and a termination arrangement at a second end of the support frame having termination connections for terminating drive signals traversing the drive electronics from the data inputs, wherein the termination arrangement has a spring portion for spring loading the mounting element in the direction of the connector arrangement. 2. A printhead according to claim 1, wherein the drive electronics incorporates at least one controller arranged on a printed circuit board for controlling the ink ejection of the at least one of the inkjet integrated circuits, the printed circuit board being removably mounted to the mounting element. 3. A printhead according to claim 2, further comprising a plurality of electrical busbars arranged to connect power supply connections of the connector arrangement to the drive electronics and inkj et integrated circuits via the printed circuit board and electrical connector. 4. A printhead according to claim 1, wherein the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the inkjet integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least one ink distribution member mounting the inkjet integrated circuits to the support member. 5. A printhead according to claim 1, wherein the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the ink for the inkjet integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged to direct the ink from the channel to ink ejection nozzles of the inkjet integrated circuits via the associated ink distribution members. 