A method of producing a chemical compound library comprises extracting at least one extract from at least one species of plant; processing at least one of the extract(s) to remove at least one type of chemical interference to produce a processed extract; chromatographically separating the processed extract into a plurality of chromatographic fractions, each containing an amount of chemical compounds; determining the amount of chemical compounds in at least one of the chromatographic fractions; and normalizing the chromatographic fractions in which the amounts were determined to produce normalized chromatographic fractions, each such fraction comprising from about 1 microgram to about 500 micrograms of each of from one to seven chemical compounds that were present in lower concentrations in the extract and that each have a log P of from about -1 to about 5 and a molecular weight less than about 1000 Daltons; thereby to produce a chemical compound library from at least one species of plant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of producing a chemical compound library comprising the steps of: (a) extracting at least one extract from at least one species of plant; (b) processing at least one of the at least one extract from step (a) to remove at least one type of chemical interference to produce a processed extract; (c) chromatographically separating the processed extract from step (b) into a plurality of chromatographic fractions, each containing an amount of chemical compounds; (d) determining the amount of chemical compounds in at least one of the chromatographic fractions from step (c); and (e) normalizing the chromatographic fractions in which the amounts were determined in step (d) to produce normalized chromatographic fractions, each such fraction comprising from about 1 microgram to about 500 micrograms of each of from one to seven chemical compounds that were present in lower concentrations in the extract and that each have a log P of from about -1 to about 5 and a molecular weight less than about 1000 Daltons; (f) thereby to produce a chemical compound library from at least one species of plant. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one extract in step (a) is extracted from a plurality of species of plant. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one extract in step (a) is extracted from the plurality of species of plant in an extraction with an organic solvent. 4. The method of claim 2, the at least one extract in step (a) is extracted from the plurality of species of plant in a multiple step extraction comprising a first extraction step carried out with a first organic solvent and thereafter a second extraction step whereby insoluble material is extracted by use of a mixture of a second organic solvent, which may or may not be the same as the first organic solvent, and water. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first organic solvent is about 50% by weight ethanol and about 50% weight ethyl acetate and wherein the mixture of the second organic solvent and water is about 70% by weight methanol and about 30% by weight water. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein in step (b), the at least one of the at least one extract from step (a) is processed to remove a tetramer or greater of a polyphenolic compound. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein in step (b), the at least one of the at least one extract from step (a) is processed to remove a compound with a molecular weight of greater than 1000 daltons. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one extract is processed in step (b) by flash chromatography to remove the at least one type of chemical interference. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one extract is processed in step (b) by use of a size exclusion filter to remove the at least one type of chemical interference. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one extract is processed in step (b) by use of a polyamide column to remove the at least one type of chemical interference. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein in step (b), the at least one of the at least one extract from step (a) is processed to remove a compound with a with a log P of greater than about 5 or less than -1. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of providing pre-determined analytical data comprising molecular ions and chromatographic elution conditions for the at least one chromatographic fraction. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of providing NMR spectra for the at least one chromatographic fraction. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of providing MS/MS fragmentation patterns for the at least one chromatographic fraction. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of providing LC-ELSD-MS data sufficient to identify the amounts of each of said chemical compounds for the at least one chromatographic fraction. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said chromatographic fractions are produced by eluting one to five chemical compounds with related physical properties from a reverse phase chromatography column with a flow rate of more than 0.48 and less than 0.80 column volumes per minute of a solvent system and where an acetonitrile concentration in the solvent system increases by more than 0.008% per second and less than 0.035% per second. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the normalized chromatographic fractions of step (e) has associated therewith a retention time, molecular weight, mass and number of compounds which are recorded in a database. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of preparing a sublibrary of chemical compounds in the library in which the chemical compounds in the sublibrary have similar predetermined molecular ions. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of preparing a sublibrary of chemical compounds in the library in which the chemical compounds in the sublibrary have similar predetermined log Ps. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) of said method is carried out with a reverse phase chromatography column having a flow rate of more than 0.48 and less than 0.80 column volumes per minute of a solvent system, wherein an acetonitrile concentration in said solvent system increases at more than 0.008% per second and less than 0.035% per second; and wherein at least fifteen chromatographic fractions are collected. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein the chemical compound library comprises at least about 100 compounds from one plant species and containing at least one triterpene compound, one lignan compound, one flavonoid compound and one alkaloid compound. 22. The method of claim 1 wherein the chemical compound library comprises at or more isomeric forms of a chemical compound. 