A cable handling system mounted to a mobile robot to dispense and retrieve cable at zero tension includes a cable reel drive and a downstream tension roller drive that includes an idler. As a cable passes through the tension roller drive, position along the length of the cable and/or the cable speed is monitored accurately by a sensor attached to the idler. A system controller in communication with the sensor controls the cable reel drive and the tension roller drive for dispensing and retrieving cable downstream of the tension roller drive.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile platform comprising: a platform; a drive system; a drive system sensor that monitors the drive system of the mobile platform; a cable handling system secured to the platform and having an outlet for dispensing and retrieving cable from the mobile platform; and a system controller for controlling the cable handling system, the controller determining platform velocity according to the drive system sensor, and determining a substantially zero tension cable velocity based at least in part on platform velocity and on a position of the outlet with respect to a point around which the mobile platform turns. 2. The mobile platform of claim 1, wherein the system controller manages a plurality of cable management modes. 3. The mobile platform of claim 2, wherein the cable management modes comprise a track mode. 4. The mobile platform of claim 2, wherein the cable management modes comprise a track reverse mode. 5. The mobile platform of claim 2, wherein the cable management modes comprise a track in mode. 6. The mobile platform of claim 2, wherein the cable management modes comprise a track out mode. 7. The mobile platform of claim 2, wherein the cable management modes comprise an error mode. 8. The mobile platform of claim 2, wherein the cable management modes comprise an idle mode. 9. The mobile platform of claim 1 further comprising: a cable reel mounted to the cable handling system; and a cable comprising a stowed portion and an end portion, wherein the stowed portion is wound about the cable reel and guided through the cable handling system, and the end portion is downstream of the mobile platform. 10. The mobile platform of claim 9, wherein the end portion of the cable is secured to a remote base. 11. The mobile platform of claim 10, wherein the cable is at least one of a fiber optic cable and a power cable. 12. A method of automatically dispensing and retrieving a cable comprising: providing a cable handling system secured to a mobile platform; determining at least one of a position along a length of cable comprising a known length and a cable speed; and controlling the cable handling system and a movement of the mobile platform such that the cable downstream of the platform is dispensed and retrieved at substantially zero tension, by determining platform velocity and determining a substantially zero tension cable velocity based at least in part on platform velocity and on a position of a cable outlet from the cable handling system with respect to a point around which the mobile platform turns. 13. A control system for cable management of a mobile platform comprising: a platform drive system including a sensor for determining platform velocity; and a system controller for dispensing and retrieving a cable from the mobile platform at substantially zero tension, the system controller determining an effective cable velocity based at least in part on platform velocity and determining a substantially zero tension cable velocity based at least in part on platform velocity and on a position of a cable outlet from the mobile platform with respect to a point around which the mobile platform turns. 