In one embodiment, an apparatus for performing an atomic layer deposition process is provided which includes a chamber body having a substrate support, a lid assembly attached to the chamber body, and delivery sub-assemblies coupled to the lid assembly and configured to deliver process gases into a centralized expanding conduit, which extends through the lid assembly and expands radially outward. The first gas delivery sub-assembly contains an annular mixing channel encircling and in fluid communication with the centralized expanding conduit, wherein the annular mixing channel is adapted to deliver a first process gas through a plurality of passageways and nozzles and into the centralized expanding conduit. A first gas inlet may be coupled to the annular mixing channel and positioned to provide the first process gas to the annular mixing channel. The second gas delivery sub-assembly contains a second gas inlet in fluid communication to the centralized expanding conduit.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for performing an atomic layer deposition process, comprising: a chamber body comprising a substrate support; a lid assembly attached to the chamber body; a first gas delivery sub-assembly coupled to the lid assembly and configured to deliver a first process gas, comprising: a centralized expanding conduit extending through the lid assembly and expanding radially outward to substantially cover a substrate disposed on the substrate support; an annular pre-mixing channel encircling and in fluid communication with the centralized expanding conduit, wherein the annular pre-mixing channel is adapted to deliver the first process gas through a plurality of passageways and nozzles and into the centralized expanding conduit; and a first gas inlet and a second gas inlet coupled to the annular pre-mixing channel and positioned to provide the first process gas to the annular pre-mixing channel; and a second gas delivery sub-assembly coupled to the lid assembly and configured to deliver a second process gas into the centralized expanding conduit, wherein the second gas delivery sub-assembly comprises a gas inlet in fluid communication to the centralized expanding conduit. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a first high speed actuating valve in fluid communication with the first gas inlet and a second high speed actuating valve in fluid communication with the second gas inlet. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first and second high speed actuating valves are configured to enable pulses of gases with a pulse time of about 1 second or less. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of nozzles is radially positioned or substantially radially positioned relative to the gas conduit. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of nozzles is tangentially positioned or substantially tangentially positioned relative to the gas conduit. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the centralized expanding conduit has a frusto-conical shape. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the centralized expanding conduit further comprises a conical concave lower surface to help evenly distribute gases within the chamber body. 8. An apparatus for performing an atomic layer deposition process, comprising: a chamber body comprising a substrate support; a lid assembly attached to the chamber body; and a first gas delivery sub-assembly coupled to the lid assembly and configured to deliver a first process gas, comprising: a centralized expanding conduit extending through the lid assembly and expanding radially outward to substantially cover a substrate disposed on the substrate support; an annular pre-mixing channel encircling and in fluid communication with the centralized expanding conduit, wherein the annular pre-mixing channel is adapted to deliver the first process gas through a plurality of passageways and nozzles and into the centralized expanding conduit; and a first gas inlet and a second gas inlet coupled to the annular pre-mixing channel and positioned to provide the first process gas to the annular pre-mixing channel. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the plurality of nozzles is radially positioned or substantially radially positioned relative to the gas conduit. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the plurality of nozzles is tangentially positioned or substantially tangentially positioned relative to the gas conduit. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the centralized expanding conduit has a frusto-conical shape. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the centralized expanding conduit further comprises a conical concave lower surface to help evenly distribute gases within the chamber body. 13. An apparatus for performing an atomic layer deposition process, comprising: a first gas delivery sub-assembly coupled to a lid assembly and configured to deliver a first process gas, comprising: a centralized expanding conduit extending through the lid assembly and expanding radially outward to substantially cover a substrate; an annular mixing pre-mixing channel encircling and in fluid communication with the centralized expanding conduit, wherein the annular pre-mixing channel is adapted to deliver the first process gas through a plurality of passageways and nozzles and into the centralized expanding conduit; and a first gas inlet and a second gas inlet coupled to the annular pre-mixing channel end positioned to provide the first process gas to the annular mixing pre-mixing channel; and a second gas delivery sub-assembly coupled to the lid assembly and configured to deliver a second process gas into the centralized expanding conduit, wherein the second gas delivery sub-assembly comprises a gas inlet in fluid communication to the centralized expanding conduit. 