The invention relates to alpha amylases and to polynucleotides encoding the alpha amylases. In addition methods of designing new alpha amylases and methods of use thereof are also provided. The alpha amylases have increased activity and stability at increased pH and temperature.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of generating a variant nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having amylase activity comprising: (i) providing a template nucleic acid comprising (a) a polynucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide having amylase activity or enzymatically active fragments thereof, wherein the polynucleotide sequence comprises at least about 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1, or (b) sequences complementary to (a); and (ii) modifying one or more nucleotides in said polynucleotide to another nucleotide, deleting one or more nucleotides in said polynucleotide, or adding one or more nucleotides to said polynucleotide, or any combination thereof, and selecting for a variant nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having an amylase activity, thereby generating a variant nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having amylase activity. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the template nucleic acid has at least about 99% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the polynucleotide of (i)(a) has the sequence of SEQ ID NO:1. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the polynucleotide of (i)(a) encodes a polypeptide having the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the template nucleic acid has at least about 96% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the template nucleic acid has at least about 97% or at least 98% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the template nucleic acid has a sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:1. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifications, additions or deletions are introduced by a method comprising error-prone PCR, shuffling, oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis, assembly PCR, sexual PCR mutagenesis, in vivo mutagenesis, cassette mutagenesis, recursive ensemble mutagenesis, exponential ensemble mutagenesis, site-specific mutagenesis, gene reassembly, Gene Site Saturation Mutagenesis (GSSM), ligation reassembly, or a combination thereof. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is iteratively repeated. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide encoded by the variant nucleic acid has amylase activity at a temperature, pH or saline level that is different from that of the polypeptide encoded by the template nucleic acid. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the polypeptide encoded by the variant nucleic acid has amylase activity at a higher temperature, pH or saline level than that of the polypeptide encoded by the template nucleic acid. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the polypeptide encoded by the variant nucleic acid has amylase activity at a lower temperature, pH or saline level than that of the polypeptide encoded by the template nucleic acid. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the amylase activity of the polypeptide encoded by the variant nucleic acid has a different stereo-, regio-, or chemo-selectivity than the amylase activity of the polypeptide encoded by the template nucleic acid. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the amylase is an alpha amylase or a beta amylase. 15. A method of generating a variant nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having an amylase activity or enzymatically active fragments thereof comprising (i) obtaining a template nucleic acid comprising (a) the polynucleotide of SEQ ID NO:1, or (b) sequences complementary to (a); and, (ii) modifying one or more nucleotides in said polynucleotide to another nucleotide, deleting one or more nucleotides in said polynucleotide, or adding one or more nucleotides to said polynucleotide, or any combination thereof, thereby generating a variant nucleic acid, and selecting for a variant nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having an amylase activity, thereby generating a polypeptide having amylase activity. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the modifications, additions or deletions are introduced by a method comprising error-prone PCR, shuffling, oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis, assembly PCR, sexual PCR mutagenesis, in vivo mutagenesis, cassette mutagenesis, recursive ensemble mutagenesis, exponential ensemble mutagenesis, site-specific mutagenesis, gene reassembly, Gene Site Saturation Mutagenesis (GSSM), ligation reassembly, or a combination thereof. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the method is iteratively repeated. 18. A method of generating a variant nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity comprising (i) obtaining a template nucleic acid comprising (a) a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide having a sequence having at least 97% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:2, or enzymatically active fragments thereof, wherein the polypeptide has alpha amylase activity; or (b) sequences complementary to (a); and, (ii) modifying, deleting, adding, or a combination thereof, at least one nucleotide in the template nucleic acid, thereby generating a variant nucleic acid, and selecting for a variant nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, thereby generating a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity. 19. A method of generating a variant nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity or enzymatically active fragments thereof comprising (i) obtaining a template nucleic acid comprising (a) a polynucleotide having a sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1, wherein the polynucleotide encodes an alpha amylase; or (b) sequences complementary to (a); and, (ii) modifying, deleting, adding, or a combination thereof, at least one nucleotide in the template nucleic acid, thereby generating a variant nucleic acid, and selecting for a variant nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, thereby generating a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity. 20. A method of generating an amylase comprising (i) obtaining a template nucleic acid comprising (a) a polynucleotide having a sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1, wherein the polynucleotide encodes a polypeptide having an amylase activity, or enzymatically active fragments thereof; or (b) sequences complementary to (a); (ii) modifying, deleting, adding, or a combination thereof, at least one nucleotide in the template nucleic acid, thereby generating a variant amylase-encoding template nucleic acid; and (iii) expressing the variant template nucleic acid and testing the expressed polypeptide for amylase activity, thereby generating a nucleic acid encoding an amylase. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the modifications, additions or deletions are introduced by a method comprising error-prone PCR, shuffling, oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis, assembly PCR, sexual PCR mutagenesis, in vivo mutagenesis, cassette mutagenesis, recursive ensemble mutagenesis, exponential ensemble mutagenesis, site-specific mutagenesis, gene reassembly, Gene Site Saturation Mutagenesis (GSSM), ligation reassembly, or a combination thereof. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein the method is iteratively repeated. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein the sequence polynucleotide identity is at least 99%. 24. The method of claim 20, wherein the sequence polynucleotide identity is at least about 97% or 98%. 25. The method of claim 20, wherein the sequence polynucleotide identity is at least about 96%. 26. The method of claim 19, wherein the modifications, additions or deletions are introduced by a method comprising error-prone PCR, shuffling, oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis, assembly PCR, sexual PCR mutagenesis, in vivo mutagenesis, cassette mutagenesis, recursive ensemble mutagenesis, exponential ensemble mutagenesis, site-specific mutagenesis, gene reassembly, Gene Site Saturation Mutagenesis (GSSM), ligation reassembly, or a combination thereof. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the method is iteratively repeated. 