A robot includes a face extracting section for extracting features of a face included in an image captured by a CCD camera, and a face recognition section for recognizing the face based on a result of face extraction by the face extracting section. The face extracting section is implemented by Gabor filters that filter images using a plurality of filters that have orientation selectivity and that are associated with different frequency components. The face recognition section is implemented by a support vector machine that maps the result of face recognition to a non-linear space and that obtains a hyperplane that separates in that space to discriminate a face from a non-face. The robot is allowed to recognize a face of a user within a predetermined time under a dynamically changing environment.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robot apparatus that operates autonomously, comprising: image input means for inputting a face image; facial feature extraction means for extracting features of the face image using a set of high frequency Gabor filters, a set of mid-frequency Gabor filters and a set of low frequency Gabor filters, the Gabor filters in each set having respective orientation selectivities that vary by predetermined increments; and face discrimination means for discriminating a particular face from other faces and including a support vector machine operable to perform non-linear mapping of said extracted features by using a kernel function, and obtaining a hyperplane that separates the non-linearly mapped features in a feature space; wherein said face discrimination means performs learning and when said face discrimination means outputs an erroneous recognition result after learning, said face image is used for learning again. 2. A robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the facial feature extraction means comprises filter changing means for changing type of the Gabor filters in accordance with recognition task. 3. A robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the facial feature extraction means, in filtering at a low frequency, downsamples a filtered image to reduce dimension of the filtered image. 4. A face recognition apparatus comprising: image input means for inputting a face image; facial feature extraction means for extracting features of the face image using a set of high frequency Gabor filters, a set of mid-frequency Gabor filters and a set of low frequency Gabor filters, the Gabor filters in each set having respective orientation selectivities that vary by predetermined increments; and face discrimination means for discriminating a particular face from other faces and including a support vector machine operable to perform non-linear mapping of said extracted features by using a kernel function, and obtaining a hyperplane that separates the non-linearly mapped features in a feature space; wherein said face discrimination means performs learning and when said face discrimination means outputs an erroneous recognition result after learning, said face image is used for learning again. 5. A face recognition apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the facial feature extraction means comprises filter changing means for changing type of the Gabor filters in accordance with recognition task. 6. A face recognition apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the facial feature extraction means, in filtering at a low frequency, downsamples a filtered image to reduce dimension of the filtered image. 7. A face recognition method comprising: an image input step of inputting a face image; a facial feature extraction step of extracting features of the face image using a set of high frequency Gabor filters, a set of mid-frequency Gabor filters and a set of low frequency Gabor filters, the Gabor filters in each set having respective orientation selectivities that vary by predetermined increments; and a face discrimination step of discriminating a particular face from other faces by operating a support vector machine to non-linearly map said extracted features by using a kernel function, and obtaining a hyperplane that separates the non-linearly mapped features in a feature space; wherein said face discrimination step performs learning and when said face discrimination step outputs an erroneous recognition result after learning, said face image is used for learning again. 8. A face recognition method according to claim 7, wherein the facial feature extraction step comprises a filter changing step of changing type of the Gabor filters in accordance with recognition task. 9. A face recognition method according to claim 7, wherein, in filtering at a low frequency, a filtered image is downsampled to reduce dimension of the filtered image in the facial feature extraction step. 