A system and a method are disclosed that provide plans for autonomous machines such as humanoid robots to perform indoor task. Human subjects contribute plans to a knowledge database. Information in the knowledge database is pre-processed to identify task steps and characterize them as action-object pairs, from which a plan database is created. A discriminative technique uses hierarchical agglomerative clustering to select an existing plan from the plan database. A generative technique formulates new plans from the plan database using first-order Markov chains, and may take into account information about the operational environment. Experimentation and evaluation by human subjects confirm the efficacy of both techniques.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A computer based method for a humanoid robot to identify steps to perform a task in a constrained environment, the method comprising: receiving data collected by a distributed capture technique, said data comprising one or more plans for the humanoid robot to perform a task; automatically extracting from said data a sequence of task steps for the humanoid robot to perform the task; storing said sequence of task steps in a computer-readable memory; extracting an action-object pair from said sequence of task steps, said action-object pair corresponding a task step of said sequence of task steps; determining a conditional probability distribution for said action-object pair, said conditional probability distribution to handle constraints of the environment and specifying a probability distribution to handle constraints of the environment and specifying a probability of occurrence of an action of said action-object pair given a relative frequency of occurrence of an object and a relative frequency of joint occurrence of said action-object pair; and storing said conditional probability distribution for said action-object pair in a computer-readable memory. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving data further comprises receiving data from multiple users or from multiple locations. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said distributed capture technique comprises receiving a response to a query, the query specifying the task. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the conditional probability distribution is determined for each action-object pair according to .function..times..times..function..function. ##EQU00006## wherein f(action, object) is relative frequency of joint occurrence of action and object, and f(object) is the relative frequency of occurrence of object. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: capturing a plurality of plan models comprising the task, said action-object pair and said conditional probability distribution for said action-object pair; determining a set of similarity metrics, each similarity metric indicating a degree of relatedness of each pair of said plan models; grouping pairs of said plan models whose similarity metrics exceed a first plan similarity into plan pairs; clustering said plan pairs into hierarchical plan clusters such that an average plan pair similarity within each hierarchical plan cluster exceeds a first average plan pair similarity; and making a selection of a plan model from one of said hierarchical plan clusters that corresponds to the greatest number of plan models. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said similarity metrics are determined according to .function..function..function..times..function. ##EQU00007## wherein len(LMS) is the length of the longest matching sequence of said steps of said pair of plan models and len (p.sub.i) is the length of plan p.sub.i. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: extracting a plurality of action-object pairs from said sequence of task steps, each action-object pair corresponding to a task step of said sequence of task steps; and synthesizing a task model from said plurality of action-object pairs, said task model comprising: a plurality of nodes, said nodes comprising a start node, one or more task step nodes, and a stop node, each said task step node corresponding to an action-object pair, and a plurality of links, each link connecting a pair of nodes. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the task model further comprises a plurality of transition probabilities, each transition probability indicating a likelihood of an associated task step given the occurrence of an associated preceding task step. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of generating a plan, the plan comprising a sequence of said task steps for the humanoid robot to perform the task, each task step corresponding to a task step node, the sequence of said task steps determined according to the equation .function..times..times..times..times..function..times..times. ##EQU00008## wherein: NextState(t) represents a task step to be executed at a time t, s.sub.j is a task step that occurs at time t-1, s.sub.i are candidate successor task steps of s.sub.j, and p(s.sub.j|s.sub.i) represents a probability of task step s.sub.j occurring given an occurrence of task step s.sub.i. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein a transition probability is modified based on the presence of an object corresponding to a task step node in the indoor environment. 11. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of generating a plan, the plan comprising a sequence of said task steps, each task step corresponding to a task step node, the sequence of said task steps determined according to the equation .function..times..times..times..times..function..times..times..times. ##EQU00009## wherein: NextState(t) represents a task step to be executed at time t, p(s.sub.i|s.sub.1, s.sub.2, . . . ,s.sub.i-1) represents a probability of state s.sub.i occurring given occurrences of states s.sub.1, S.sub.2, . . . , s.sub.i-1, s.sub.i are candidate successor task steps of S.sub.j, S.sub.1,S.sub.2, . . . S.sub.i-1 are task steps preceding task step s.sub.i. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of randomly selecting a plan in the event of a plurality of best candidate choices. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of selecting a plan having a shortest length in the event of a plurality of best candidate choices. 14. A computer software program product embodied on a computer readable medium for performing the method of claim 1 when run on a computing device. 