The invention relates to a wire-guide/nozzle assembly (11, 13) for an electric arc welding torch, comprising at least one nozzle (11) for delivering gas and at least one wire-guide system (13) for guiding at least one consumable wire, characterized in that the downstream end (20) of the wire-guide system (13) runs into the nozzle (11). The peripheral wall of the nozzle (11) has at least one cut-out (10) through which the wire-guide system (13) passes. The wire-guide system (13) is fastened to the nozzle (11). The TIG welding torch comprises a wire-guide/nozzle assembly (11, 13).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic welding unit, comprising at least one robotic arm comprising a TIG welding torch which has a torch body and a tungsten electrode which has a sharpened end, and said torch further comprising at least one wire guide/nozzle assembly for an electric arc welding torch, comprising: a) at least one nozzle for delivering gas, said nozzle comprising a first axis longitudinally oriented with said nozzle; and b) at least one wire-guide system for guiding at least one consumable wire which has a fusible extremity, said wire-guide system comprising a first section, said first section comprising the downstream end of said wire-guide system, said first section further comprising a second axis longitudinally oriented with said first section, wherein said downstream end directs said consumable wire into said nozzle, wherein said fusible extremity of consumable wire and said tungsten electrode lie in one and the same plane, wherein said nozzle further comprising a peripheral wall, said peripheral wall having at least one cut-out through which said wire-guide system passes, wherein said first axis and said second axis are oriented at an angle between about 5.degree. and about 50.degree. relative to each other, wherein said wire is guided in such a manner that an end of said wire grazes said sharpened end of said tungsten electrode and then enters into an electrical spot created by said tungsten electrode on at least one piece to be welded, and wherein said torch body comprises cooling liquid circuits suitable for cooling said torch body. 2. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a torch support, wherein said torch body is inserted into said torch support, and said cooling liquid circuits are disposed in said torch support. 3. The unit of claim 1, wherein said cooling liquid circuits comprise a duct. 4. A robotic welding unit, comprising at least one robotic arm comprising a TIG welding torch which has a torch body and a tungsten electrode which has a sharpened end, and said torch further comprising at least one wire guide/nozzle assembly for an electric arc welding torch, comprising: a) at least one nozzle for delivering gas, said nozzle comprising a first axis longitudinally oriented with said nozzle; and b) at least one wire-guide system for guiding at least one consumable wire which has a fusible extremity, said wire-guide system comprising a first section, said first section comprising the downstream end of said wire-guide system, said first section further comprising a second axis longitudinally oriented with said first section, wherein said downstream end directs said consumable wire into said nozzle, wherein said fusible extremity of consumable wire and said tungsten electrode lie in one and the same plane, wherein said nozzle further comprising a peripheral wall, said peripheral wall having at least one cut-out through which said wire-guide system passes, wherein said first axis and said second axis are oriented at an angle between about 5.degree. and about 50.degree. relative to each other, wherein said wire is guided in such a manner that an end of said wire grazes said sharpened end of said tungsten electrode and then enters into an electrical spot created by said tungsten electrode on at least one piece to be welded, and wherein said nozzle is cooled by a cooling liquid. 5. The unit of claim 4, further comprising a torch support, wherein said torch body is supported by said torch support, and said cooling liquid comes from said torch support. 6. A robotic welding unit, comprising at least one robotic arm comprising a TIG welding torch which has a torch body and a tungsten electrode which has a sharpened end, and said torch further comprising at least one wire guide/nozzle assembly for an electric arc welding torch, comprising: a) at least one nozzle for delivering gas, said nozzle comprising a first axis longitudinally oriented with said nozzle; and b) at least one wire-guide system for guiding at least one consumable wire which has a fusible extremity, said wire-guide system comprising a first section, said first section comprising the downstream end of said wire-guide system, said first section further comprising a second axis longitudinally oriented with said first section, wherein said downstream end directs said consumable wire into said nozzle, wherein said fusible extremity of consumable wire and said tungsten electrode lie in one and the same plane, wherein said nozzle further comprising a peripheral wall, said peripheral wall having at least one cut-out through which said wire-guide system passes, wherein said first axis and said second axis are oriented at an angle between about 5.degree. and about 50.degree. relative to each other, wherein said wire is guided in such a manner that an end of said wire grazes said sharpened end of said tungsten electrode and then enters into an electrical spot created by said tungsten electrode on at least one piece to be welded, wherein said torch body comprises cooling liquid circuits suitable for cooling said torch body, and wherein said nozzle is cooled by a cooling liquid. 7. The unit of claim 6, further comprising a torch support wherein said torch body is supported by said torch support said cooling liquid circuits are also disposed in said torch support, and wherein said cooling liquid comes from said torch support. 8. A robotic process for welding or braze-welding two metallic pieces together comprising the steps of: a) providing the robotic welding unit of claim 1, b) feeding the TIG torch with a wire, c) guiding the wire in such manner that an end of said wire grazes the sharpened end of the tungsten electrode and then enters into an electrical spot created by the tungsten electrode on at least one of the pieces to be welded together by the electric arc, d) fusing the wire thereby welding or braze-welding the metallic pieces together, and e) cooling the torch body. 9. A robotic process for welding or braze-welding two metallic pieces together comprising the steps of: a) providing the robotic welding unit of claim 4, b) feeding the TIG torch with a wire, c) guiding the wire in such manner that an end of said wire grazes the sharpened end of the tungsten electrode and then enters into an electrical spot created the tungsten electrode on at least one of the pieces to be welded together by the electric arc, d) fusing the wire thereby welding or braze-welding the metallic pieces together, and e) cooling the nozzle. 10. A robotic process for welding or braze-welding two metallic pieces together comprising the steps of: a) providing the robotic welding unit of claim 6, b) feeding the TIG torch with a wire; c) guiding the wire in such manner that an end of said wire grazes the sharpened end of the tungsten electrode and then enters into an electrical spot created the tungsten electrode on at least one of the pieces to be welded together by the electric arc, d) fusing the wire thereby welding or braze-welding the metallic pieces together, and e) cooling the torch body and the nozzle. 