Detecting an object using sound waves includes outputting a sound wave from a transducer, receiving an echo after outputting the sound wave, obtaining a threshold value based on the echo and plural other echoes that are within a predetermined range of the echo, and determining if the echo is a result of the sound wave based on the threshold value.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: transmitting a sound wave comprised of a first portion and a second portion, the first portion comprising a pulse signal and the second portion comprising a ring-down signal; obtaining a characteristic of the second portion; storing the characteristic; using the characteristic to detect an echo of another sound wave; and repeating transmitting, obtaining, storing and using periodically for different sound waves and corresponding first and second portions. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the ring-down signal comprises a signal that decays in amplitude over time. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the ring-down signal is a function of a transducer used to transmit the pulse signal. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the characteristic comprises an amplitude in the ring-down signal. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting the other sound wave comprised of a first portion and a second portion; receiving an echo of the other sound wave; and analyzing the echo of the other sound wave based on the characteristic. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein analyzing comprises distinguishing the second portion of the other sound wave from the echo of the other sound wave. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein distinguishing comprises detecting an amplitude in the echo based on the characteristic. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein detecting the amplitude in the echo comprises: assigning a threshold based on the characteristic; and comparing the amplitude in the echo to the threshold. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the amplitude in the echo is detected if the amplitude in the echo exceeds the threshold. 10. A pulse-echo sonar scanner for a mobile robot, comprising: a transmitter which generates a pulse signal; an acoustic transducer which transmits and receives acoustic signals; a receiver; means for determining performance characteristics of the transducer periodically during operation of the pulse-echo sonar scanner for a given pulse, the performance characteristics of the transducer comprising transducer ring-down; means for storing the performance characteristics; and means for determining threshold levels for an echo signal based on the stored performance characteristics. 11. The pulse-echo sonar scanner of claim 10, wherein the acoustic transducer is capable of rotation through 360.degree.. 12. The pulse-echo sonar scanner of claim 10, further comprising a controller for controlling an angular position of the acoustic transducer. 13. The pulse-echo sonar scanner of claim 10, further comprising a reflective surface on the acoustic transducer that is controlled by the controller. 14. A method of adjusting threshold levels on a mobile robot scanner, comprising: measuring ring-down characteristics of the mobile robot scanner periodically during operation of the mobile robot scanner; creating a dynamic threshold level based on the ring-down characteristics; and applying the dynamic threshold levels to received signals. 15. An apparatus comprising: a transducer which transmits a sound wave comprised of a first portion and a second portion, the first portion comprising a pulse signal and the second portion comprising a ring-down signal; and a processor which obtains a characteristic of the second portion, stores the characteristic, uses the characteristic to detect an echo of another sound wave, and repeats obtaining, storing, and using periodically for different sound waves and corresponding first and second portions. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the ring-down signal comprises a signal that decays in amplitude over time. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the ring-down signal is a function of a transducer used to transmit the pulse signal. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the characteristic comprises an amplitude in the ring-down signal. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein: the transducer transmits the other sound wave comprised of a first portion and a second portion; a receiver receives an echo of the other sound wave; and the processor analyzes the echo of the other sound wave based on the characteristic. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein analyzing comprises distinguishing the second portion of the other sound wave from the echo of the other sound wave. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein distinguishing comprises detecting an amplitude in the echo based on the characteristic. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein detecting the amplitude in the echo comprises: assigning a threshold based on the characteristic; and comparing the amplitude in the echo to the threshold. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the amplitude in the echo is detected if the amplitude in the echo exceeds the threshold. 24. A computer program stored on a computer-readable medium, the computer program comprising instructions that cause a processor to: obtain a characteristic of a second portion of a sound wave comprised of a first portion and a second portion, the first portion comprising a pulse signal and the second portion comprising a ring-down signal; store the characteristic; use the characteristic to detect an echo of another sound wave; and repeat obtaining, storing and using periodically for different sound waves and corresponding first and second portions. 25. The computer program of claim 24, wherein the ring-down signal comprises a signal that decays in amplitude over time. 26. The computer program of claim 25, wherein the ring-down signal is a function of a transducer used to transmit the pulse signal. 27. The computer program of claim 25, wherein the characteristic comprises an amplitude in the ring-down signal. 28. The computer program of claim 24, further comprising instructions that cause the processor to: receive an echo of the other sound wave; and analyze the echo of the other sound wave based on the characteristic. 29. The computer program of claim 28, wherein analyzing comprises distinguishing the second portion of the other sound wave from the echo of the other sound wave. 30. The computer program of claim 29, wherein distinguishing comprises detecting an amplitude in the echo based on the characteristic. 31. The computer program of claim 30, wherein detecting the amplitude in the echo comprises: assigning a threshold based on the characteristic; and comparing the amplitude in the echo to the threshold. 32. The computer program of claim 31, wherein the amplitude in the echo is detected if the amplitude in the echo exceeds the threshold. 33. A method comprising: receiving plural reflections of corresponding emissions; determining a threshold value based on the plural reflections; comparing a target reflection to the threshold value, the target reflection comprising one of the plural reflections; and determining if the target reflection is a valid reflection based on comparison to the threshold value; wherein the plural reflections comprise a first reflection, followed by a second reflection, followed by a third reflection; and wherein the target reflection comprises the second reflection. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein determining comprises averaging magnitudes of the plural reflections. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein determining comprises applying a scaling factor to an average of the magnitudes of the plural reflections. 36. The method of claim 33, wherein the first reflection, the second reflection, and the third reflection are adjacent in time. 37. The method of claim 33, wherein the emissions comprise sound waves and the plural reflections comprise echoes of the sound waves. 38. The method of claim 33, wherein the emissions comprise laser beams, and the reflections comprise reflections of the laser beams. 39. An apparatus comprising: a transducer to receive plural reflections of corresponding emissions; and a processor to determine a threshold value based on the plural reflections, to compare a target reflection to the threshold value, the target reflection comprising one of the plural reflections, and to determine if the target reflection is a valid reflection based on comparison to the threshold value; wherein the plural reflections comprise a first reflection, followed by a second reflection, followed by a third reflection; and wherein the target reflection comprises the second reflection. 40. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein determining comprises averaging magnitudes of the plural reflections. 41. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein determining comprises applying a scaling factor to an average of the magnitudes of the plural reflections. 42. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the first reflection, the second reflection, and the third reflection are adjacent in time. 43. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the emissions comprise sound waves and the plural reflections comprise echoes of the sound waves. 44. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the emissions comprise laser beams, and the reflections comprise reflections of the laser beams. 45. A machine-readable medium that stores executable instructions that cause a machine to: determine a threshold value based on plural reflections that correspond to plural emissions; compare a target reflection to the threshold value, the target reflection comprising one of the plural reflections; and determine if the target reflection is a valid reflection based on comparison to the threshold value; wherein the plural reflections comprise a first reflection, followed by a second reflection, followed by a third reflection; and wherein the target reflection comprises the second reflection. 46. The machine-readable medium of claim 45, wherein determining comprises averaging magnitudes of the plural reflections. 47. The machine-readable medium of claim 46, wherein determining comprises applying a scaling factor to an average of the magnitudes of the plural reflections. 48. The machine-readable medium of claim 45, wherein the first reflection, the second reflection, and the third reflection are adjacent in time. 49. The machine-readable medium of claim 45, wherein the emissions comprise sound waves and the plural reflections comprise echoes of the sound waves. 50. The machine-readable medium of claim 45, wherein the emissions comprise laser beams, and the reflections comprise reflections of the laser beams. 