A device for handling PCR microcards, each having an array of sample chambers closed by a transparent material on one side thereof, in relation to a PCR instrument, the device including a carrier having an apertured region with an array of holes corresponding in number and relative location with the array of sample chambers in each of the microcards, and a provision for retaining a microcard on the carrier so that the transparent material faces the apertured region with the reagent sample chambers aligned, respectively, with the holes in the apertured region, and so that the side of the microcard opposite the transparent material is unobstructed at least throughout the array of sample chambers. The device cooperates with the PCR instrument to ensure accurate positioning of the carrier and the microcard retained thereon for real time PCR processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for handling at least one PCR substrate member in relation to a PCR instrument, the substrate member having an array of sample chambers closed by a translucent material on one side thereof, the device comprising: a carrier having an apertured region with an array of holes substantially aligning with the array of sample chambers; and a retention frame having an opening at least as large as the array of sample chambers and being fitted to the carrier to retain the substrate member in relation to the carrier, wherein the carrier is constructed to contact the peripheral edge of the substrate member, and wherein the substrate member comprises a microcard. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the retention frame is configured to at least partially surround the periphery of the substrate member. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the retention frame is configured to surround at least two sides of the periphery of the substrate member. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the carrier comprises a carrier plate including the apertured region. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein the carrier comprises inclined ramps on the bottom of the carrier plate to engage and guide edges of the substrate member upon relative movement of the carrier plate and substrate member toward each other. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the retention frame includes a planar base and an inwardly extending marginal flange for seating the device on a flat surface of a thermal cycling device of the PCR instrument. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the marginal flange is engageable with opposite edges of the substrate member. 8. The device of claim 6, wherein the marginal flange includes inwardly extending tabs to engage one end of the substrate member. 9. The device of claim 6, wherein the marginal flange defines the opening in the retention frame. 10. The device of claim 6, wherein the opening defined by the marginal flange is shaped to complement with clearance, the peripheral shape of a thermal black having a substrate member engaging surface elevated above the flat surface of the thermal cycling device. 11. The device of claim 10, further comprising raised, tapered surfaces aligned with each of the sample chambers and engageable in respective holes of the carrier. 12. The device of claim 1, further comprising inclined ramps on the top of the carrier plate engageable by edges of a heated cover plate of the PCR instrument to position the carrier plate and substrate member during operation of the instrument. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein the carrier comprises a side surface having a structure configured to be carried. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the structure is configured to be carried by a robot. 15. A device for handling at least one substrate member in relation to a thermal cycling device, the substrate member having an array of sample chambers configured to permit optical detection through at least a first side thereof, the device comprising: a carrier having an apertured region with an array of holes substantially aligning with the array of sample chambers; and a retention frame having an opening at least as large as the array of sample chambers and being fitted to the carrier to retain the substrate member in relation to the carrier, so that the side of the substrate member opposite the first side directly contacts a top surface of a thermal block of the thermal cycling device, wherein the carrier is constructed to contact the peripheral edge of the substrate member. 16. The device of claim 15, wherein the carrier comprises inclined ramps on the bottom of the carrier plate to engage and guide edges of the substrate member upon relative movement of the carrier plate and substrate member toward each other. 17. The device of claim 15, wherein the substrate member comprises a microcard. 18. The device of claim 15, wherein the carrier comprises a side surface having a structure configured to be carried. 19. The device of claim 18, wherein the structure is configured to be carried by a robot. 20. A device for handling at least one PCR substrate member in relation to a thermal cycling device, the substrata member having an array of sample chambers closed by a translucent material on one side thereof, the device comprising: a carrier comprising a plate member having an apertured region with an array of holes substantially aligning with the array of sample chambers, the plate member further having a plurality of projections extending from the plate member, the substrate member defining through-holes in marginal portions thereof outside the sample chambers, the projections of the plate member projecting from the plate member to engage and pass through the through-holes; and a thermal block attachable to the thermal cycling device, the thermal block defining a top surface on which the substrate member may be placed in direct contact therewith, the thermal block defining a plurality of holes for receiving the projections of the plate member therein. 21. The device of claim 20, wherein the plate member defines a bottom recess containing the apertured region and a peripheral margin from which the projections project. 22. The device of claim 21, further including a compression pad in the bottom of the recess, the compression pad including an array of holes substantially aligning with the holes in the carrier plate. 23. The device of claim 22, wherein the carrier plate projections comprise pins. 24. The device of claim 23, wherein the pins are cylindrical. 25. The device of claim 20, wherein the holes of the thermal block are tapered. 26. The device of claim 20, wherein the substrate member comprises a microcard. 27. The device of claim 20, wherein the carrier comprises a side surface having a structure configured to be carried. 28. The device of claim 27, wherein the structure is configured to be carried by a robot. 29. A device for handling at least one PCR substrate member in relation to a PCR instrument, the substrate member having an array of sample chambers closed by a translucent material on one side thereof, the device comprising: a carrier having an apertured region with an array of holes substantially aligning with the array of sample chambers; and a retention frame having an opening at least as large as the array of sample chambers and being fitted to the carrier to retain the substrate member in relation to the carrier, wherein the carrier is constructed to contact the peripheral edge of the substrate member, and wherein the carrier and the retention frame are configured to retain the substrate member therebetween. 30. The device of claim 29, wherein the retention frame is configured to at least partially suround the periphery of the substrate member. 31. The device of claim 30, wherein the retention frame is configured to surround at least two sides of the periphery of the substrate member. 32. The device of claim 29, wherein the carrier comprises a carrier plate including the apertured region. 33. The device of claim 32, wherein the carrier comprises inclined ramps on the bottom of the carrier plate to engage and guide edges of the substrate member upon relative movement of the carrier plate and substrate member toward each other. 34. The device of claim 29, wherein the retention frame includes a planar base and an inwardly extending marginal flange for seating the device on a flat surface of a thermal cycling device of the PCR instrument. 35. The device of claim 34, wherein the marginal flange is engageable with opposite edges of the substrate member. 36. The device of claim 34, wherein the marginal flange includes inwardly extending tabs to engage one end of the substrate member. 37. The device of claim 34, wherein the marginal flange defines the opening in the retention frame. 38. The device of claim 34, wherein the opening defined by the marginal flange is shaped to complement with clearance, the peripheral shape of a thermal block having a substrate member engaging surface elevated above the flat surface of the thermal cycling device. 39. The device of claim 38, further comprising raised, tapered surfaces aligned with each of the sample chambers and engageable in respective holes of the carrier. 40. The device of claim 29, further comprising inclined ramps on the top of the carrier plate engageable by edges of a heated cover plate of the PCR instrument to position the carrier plate and substrate member during operation of the instrument. 41. The device of claim 29, wherein the carrier comprises a side surface having a structure configured to be carried. 42. The device of claim 41, wherein the structure is configured to be carried by a robot. 43. The device of claim 29, wherein the substrate member comprises a microcard. 