The present invention provides parallel, cable based robotic manipulators, for use in different applications such as ultra high-speed robots or positioning devices with between three to six degrees of freedom. The manipulators provide more options for the number of degrees of freedom and also more simplicity compared to the current cable-based robots. The general structure of these manipulators includes a base platform, a moving platform or end effector, an extensible or telescoping central post connecting the base to moving platform to apply a pushing force to the platforms. The central post can apply the force by an actuator (active), or spring or air pressure (passive) using telescoping cylinders. The robotic manipulators use a combination of active and passive tensile (cable) members, and collapsible and rigid links to maximize the benefits of both pure cable and conventional parallel mechanisms. Different embodiments of the robotic manipulators use either active cables only, passive cables only, or combinations of active and passive cables. An active cable is one whose length is varied by means of a winch. A passive cable is one whose length is constant and which is used to provide a mechanical constraint. These mechanisms reduce the moving inertia significantly to enhance the operational speed of the robots. They also provide a simpler, more cost effective way to manufacture parallel mechanisms for use in robotic applications.
Claims We Claim: 1. A robotic mechanism, comprising: a support base, an end effector and a biasing member having opposed ends and attached at one of said opposed ends to the support base and attached at the other of said opposed ends to the end effector; three cables each connected at a first end thereof to said end effector and said at least three cables having second ends being attached to an associated positioning mechanism for moving the second ends of said three cables to position said end effector in a selected position in space, a length of each of said three cables between said end effector and said associated positioning mechanism being fixed, said biasing member applying force on the end effector with respect to the support base for maintaining tension in said three cables; and said biasing member is pivotally attached to said end effector with a first revolute joint and is pivotally connected to said support base with a second revolute joint, the first and second revolute joints having axis of rotation with are parallel, and wherein said positioning mechanism includes three rigid link arms each having first and second ends with the first end of each support arm being pivotally attached to said support base in such a way that the rigid link arms pivot in planes parallel to each other, and wherein the first ends of each cable is attached to the end effector and the second ends of each cable is attached to the second ends of an associated rigid link arm, and wherein said positioning mechanism includes an actuator attached to each rigid link arm for pivotally moving each rigid link arm for moving said cables thereby moving the end effector. 2. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 wherein two of said rigid link arms are located adjacent to each other on one side of the biasing member and the other winch is located on the other side of the biasing member, and wherein the cable attached to a first of the two adjacent rigid link members is attached to the end effector at a position on the other side of the biasing member, and wherein the cable attached to a second of the two adjacent rigid link members is attached to the end effector at a position on the same side of the biasing members as the second rigid link member, and wherein the cable attached to the rigid link member located on the other side of the biasing member is attached to the end effector at a position adjacent to the first revolute joint and aligned with the axis of rotation of the first revolute joint. 3. The robotic mechanism according to claim 2 wherein said three cables are each attached to the end effector using three revolute joints, and wherein each revolute joint has an axis of rotation, the three revolute joints being attached to the end effector so the axis of rotation of each of the three revolute joints are parallel, and wherein the axis of rotation of the revolute joint attached to the end effector at the position adjacent to the first revolute joint has its axis of rotation collinear with the axis of rotation of the first revolute joint. 4. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 wherein said first end of each rigid link arm is pivotally attached to said support base using a revolute joint. 5. The robotic mechanism according to claim 2 wherein the actuator associated with each rigid link arm is connected to the revolute joint connected the rigid link arm to the support base, and including a computer controller connected to each actuator for controlling movement of said end effector. 6. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 wherein each of the rigid link arms is moved independently of the other rigid link arms so that the robotic mechanism has three degrees of freedom. 7. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 wherein said end effector includes a mounting mechanism for receiving a tool to be mounted on the end effector. 8. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 including a synchronizing mechanism connected to the two rigid link arms on the same side of the bias member so that the two rigid link arms remain parallel to each other during movement so that the robotic mechanism has two degrees of freedom. 