A substrate handling system and method in which an air chuck produces a film of air between the substrate and the air chuck, a magnetic chuck attracts the substrate to the air chuck, and an actuator subsystem moves the magnetic chuck closer to and away from the air chuck to alternately pick up a substrate and release the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate handling system comprising: a gas chuck for producing a film of gas between a substrate and the gas chuck thereby preventing marring of the substrate such that the substrate is in non-contact state; and a magnetic chuck configured to alternately attract the substrate to the film of gas and to release the substrate; wherein the gas chuck is moveably mounted with respect to the magnetic chuck. 2. The system of claim 1 in which the magnetic chuck is movable closer to the gas chuck to attract the substrate and in which the magnetic chuck is movable away from the gas chuck to release the substrate. 3. The system of claim 2 further including an actuator subsystem for moving the magnetic chuck away from and closer to the gas chuck. 4. The system of claim 3 in which the actuator subsystem includes at least one gas cylinder attached to the magnetic chuck and having a piston contacting the gas chuck for moving the magnetic chuck away from the gas chuck. 5. The system of claim 4 in which the actuator subsystem further includes a spring for biasing the magnetic chuck closer to the gas chuck. 6. The system of claim 2 in which the gas chuck includes a first large area plate with an array of gas orifices therein and the magnetic chuck includes a second large area plate with an array of magnets attached thereto. 7. The system of claim 6 further including a robot interface mount attached to the first large area plate for maneuvering the handling system to transfer the substrate from a feed station to an imaging station. 8. The system of claim 7 in which there are two side-by-side handling systems for transferring two smaller substrates at a time or one large substrate from the feed station to the imaging station. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the magnetic chuck is mounted to the gas chuck on an opposite side of the gas chuck from the film of gas produced by the gas chuck. 10. The system of claim 1 in which the gas chuck is attached to the mounting plate and the magnetic chuck is attached to the mounting plate in a movable fashion closer to and away from the gas chuck. 11. The system of claim 10 further including a gimbal assembly between the gas chuck and the mounting plate. 12. The system of claim 10 in which the gas chuck includes the small area plate with the plurality of orifices therein. 13. The system of claim 12 in which the magnetic chuck includes a magnet and an actuator subsystem for moving the magnet closer to and away from the gas chuck. 14. The system of claim 13 in which the actuator subsystem includes a gas cylinder connected to the mounting plate and a piston interconnected to the magnet for urging the magnet alternately closer to and away from the substrate. 15. The system of claim 13 in which there are a plurality of gas chucks in a line attached to the mounting plate and a plurality of corresponding magnets each connected via a bar to a cross member driven by the actuator subsystem. 16. The system of claim 15 further including a robotic arm connected to the mounting plate for translating the mounting plate. 17. The system of claim 16 further including an actuator between the robotic arm and the mounting plate for raising and lowering the mounting plate. 18. The system of claim 1 further including a slip sheet removal subsystem for separating a slip sheet from the substrate. 19. The system of claim 18 in which the slip sheet removal subsystem includes at lease one magnet for attracting the substrate as the slip sheet is removed. 20. The system of claim 18 in which the slip sheet removal subsystem includes at least one tape mechanism. 21. The system of claim 20 in which the tape mechanism includes a feed roll, a take up roll, and a foot over which tape from the feed roll passes before being wound on the take up roll. 22. A substrate handling system comprising: an air chuck for producing a film of air between a substrate and the air chuck; a magnetic chuck for attracting the substrate to the air chuck; and an actuator subsystem for moving the magnetic chuck closer to and away from the air chuck to alternately pick up the substrate and release the substrate. 23. The system of claim 22 in which the air chuck includes a plurality of discrete members with air orifices therein and the magnetic chuck includes a plurality of corresponding magnets. 24. The system of claim 22, wherein the magnetic chuck is mounted to the gas chuck on an opposite side of the gas chuck from the film of gas produced by the gas chuck. 25. A substrate handling system comprising: a first large area plate with an array of gas orifices therein for producing a film of air between a substrate and the plate; a second large area plate with an array of magnets attached thereto moveably mounted with respect to the first large area plate; and an actuator subsystem for moving the second large area plate closer to and away from the first large area plate to alternately pick up and release the substrate. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the second large plate area is mounted to the first large plate area on an opposite side of the first large plate area from the film of air produced by the first large plate area. 27. The system of claim 25 in which the magnets are each connected via a bar to a cross member which is raised and lowered with respect to the mounting plate by the actuator subsystem. 