An inkjet printer is provided having at least one printhead module removably mounted to a body of the printer. The printhead module has at least two printhead integrated circuits mounted to a support member via respective ink distribution members which distribute ink from the support member to inkjet nozzles of the printhead integrated circuits. The support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the ink for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member to direct the ink from the channel to the associated nozzles via the ink distribution members. Each ink distribution members incorporates a laminated stack of layers which have apertures for distributing the ink from the support member to the associated printhead integrated circuit, the apertures of each layer from the support member to the associated printhead integrated circuit being of successively smaller diameter.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An inkjet printer comprising at least one printhead module removably mounted to a body of the printer, the printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits mounted to a support member via respective ink distribution members which distribute ink from the support member to inkjet nozzles of the printhead integrated circuits, wherein the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the ink for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the ink from the at least one channel to the associated nozzles via the ink distribution members, and each of the ink distribution members incorporates a laminated stack of layers, each layer having apertures for distributing the ink from the support member to the associated printhead integrated circuit, the apertures of each layer from the support member to the associated printhead integrated circuit being of successively smaller diameter. 2. A printer according to claim 1, wherein the support member is formed with a plurality of the channels, each of which is arranged to carry a different ink for direction to associated groups of the nozzles via the ink distribution members. 3. A printer according to claim 2, wherein the support member is formed with a further channel for delivering air to the at least two printhead integrated circuits for maintaining the nozzles of the at least two printhead integrated circuits substantially free from impurities. 4. A printer according to claim 1, wherein: the laminated stack comprises at least three layers comprising an upper layer upon which the associated printhead integrated circuit is mounted, a middle layer and a lower layer which is attached to an upper surface of the support member; the lower layer includes first distribution apertures arranged to align with respective ones of the apertures in the support member and first distribution channels in an upper surface thereof associated with respective ones of the first distribution apertures, the first distribution apertures having substantially the same diameter as the apertures in the support member; the middle layer includes second distribution apertures arranged to align with the first distribution channels of the lower layer, the second distribution apertures having a smaller diameter than the first distribution apertures; the upper layer includes second distribution channels in a lower surface thereof arranged to align with the second distribution apertures of the middle layer and third distribution apertures associated with the second distribution channels, the third distribution apertures having a smaller diameter than the second distribution apertures; and the associated printhead integrated circuit includes nozzle supply apertures arranged to align with the third distribution apertures of the upper layer and to direct ink to respective ones of the nozzles, the nozzle supply apertures having substantially the same diameter as the third distribution apertures. 5. A printer according to claim 4, wherein the apertures of the support member have a diameter of the order of millimetres and the nozzle supply apertures of the printhead integrated circuits have a diameter of the order of micrometres. 6. A printer according to claim 1, wherein a lower surface of the at least one ink distribution member is attached to the upper surface of the support member by an adhesive material. 7. A printer according to claim 6, wherein the adhesive material is deposited to surround each of the apertures of the support member and each of corresponding apertures formed in the lower surface of the at least one ink distribution member so as to form a seal between the respective apertures. 8. A printer according to claim 7, wherein: the apertures of the support member are formed in a row extending across the support member with respect to the longitudinally extending direction of the support member; and two deposits of the adhesive material are deposited on either side of the row of apertures to provide stability for the mounting arrangement. 9. A printer according to claim 8, wherein the adhesive material is a curable resin. 