A tool changer comprising a master module and a tool module includes a rapid-connect communication bus between the master and tool modules. A unique tool identification number, along with other tool-related information, may be transmitted from the tool module to the master module within about 250 msec of the master and tool modules coupling together. The master module includes a robotic system communications network node connected to the rapid-connect communication bus, and operative to transmit data between the tool and the network via the communication bus. The need for a separate network node in the tool module is obviated, reducing cost and reducing the start-up time required to initialize such a network node upon connecting to a new tool. The rapid-connect communication bus may be a serial bus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic tool changer for an industrial robot communicatively coupled to a robotic system communication network, comprising: a master module mechanically connected to an industrial robot arm and providing a first mechanical interface, the master module including a network node; a tool module mechanically connected to a robotic tool and operative to mate with the first mechanical interface, the tool module not including a network node; and a communication bus operative to transfer tool data from the tool module to the master module when the master and tool modules are mechanically coupled together. 2. The robotic tool changer of claim 1 wherein the robotic system communication network is a Device Net network. 3. The robotic tool changer of claim 1 wherein the tool changer communicates tool data from the master module, across the robotic system communication network, to a controller node. 4. The robotic tool changer of claim 3 wherein the tool changer communicates tool data to the controller node within about 100 msec. after the master and tool modules couple together. 5. The robotic tool changer of claim 4 wherein the tool changer communicates tool data to the controller node within about 10 msec. after the master and tool modules couple together. 6. The robotic tool changer of claim 5 wherein the tool changer communicates tool data to the controller node within about 1 msec. after the master and tool modules couple together. 7. The robotic tool changer of claim 1 wherein the communication bus is a serial bus. 8. The tool changer of claim 1 wherein the communication bus comprises at least one data line. 9. The tool changer of claim 8 wherein at least one data line is differentially driven. 10. The tool changer of claim 8 wherein the communication bus further comprises at least one clock line. 11. A method of communicating information between a tool module of an industrial robotic tool changer and a controller node of a robotic system communication network, comprising: mechanically coupling the tool module to a master module of the tool changer, the master module including a robotic system communication network node; transferring tool information from the tool module to the master module via a communication bus between the master and tool modules; and communicating the tool information from the master module to the controller node via the robotic system communication network. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising reading the tool information from a tool attached to the tool module. 13. The method of claim 11 further comprising reading the tool information from one or more switches disposed on the tool module. 14. The method of claim 11 further comprising communicating system information directed to the tool module from the robotic system communication network to the master module; and supplying the system information from the master module to the tool module via the communication bus. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising supplying the system information from the tool module to a tool attached to the tool module. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the tool module does not include a robotic system communication network node. 17. A tool module of an industrial robotic tool changer, comprising: a coupling mechanism operative to mechanically couple the tool module to a master module of the robotic tool changer, the master module having a robotic system communication network node; a communication bus operative to transfer tool data from the tool module to a network node in the master module when the master and tool modules are mechanically coupled together; and wherein the tool module does not include a robotic system communication network node. 18. The tool module of claim 17 further comprising at least one switch providing tool data. 