A method of requesting assistance relating to a product item is provided. The product item includes an associated interface surface. The interface surface has disposed thereon coded data indicative of an identity of the product item. The method comprises the steps of, in a sensing device: (a) sensing the coded data; (b) generating, using the sensed coded data, indicating data indicative of the product item identity; and, (c) transferring the indicating data to a computer system. The computer system is responsive to the indicating data so as to cause provision of assistance.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of requesting assistance relating to a product item, the product item including an associated interface surface, the interface surface having disposed thereon or therein a plurality of coded data portions provided at respective positions on the interface surface, each coded data portion being indicative of the identity of the product item, the method including, in a sensing device: (a) sensing at least one coded data portion; (b) generating, using the sensed coded data portion, indicating data indicative of the product item identity; and, (c) transferring the indicating data to a computer system, the computer system being responsive to the indicating data to identify an assistance request and initiate provision of assistance to a user. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the coded data is indicative of an assistance request, and wherein the method includes, generating in the sensing device, indicating data indicative of the assistance request. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein each coded data portion is indicative of the respective position, and wherein the method includes, generating in the sensing device and using the sensed coded data portion, indicating data indicative of at least one of: (a) a position of the sensed coded data portion on the interface surface; and, (b) a position of the sensing device relative to the interface surface. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: (a) receiving the indicating data; (b) generating, using the received indicating data: (i) position data indicative of at least one of: (1) the position of the sensed coded data portion on the interface surface; and, (2) the position of the sensing device relative to the interface surface; and, (ii) identity data indicative of the identity of the product item; (c) determining, using the identity data and the position data, an assistance request; and, (d) initiating, using the assistance request, provision of the assistance. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the interface surface includes at least one region, including coded data indicative of an identity of the at least one region, and wherein the method includes, in the sensing device: (a) sensing the coded data disposed within the at least one region; and, (b) generating, using the sensed coded data, indicating data indicative of the region identity. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: (a) receiving the indicating data; (b) generating, using the received indicating data, region identity data indicative of the identity of the at least one region; (c) determining, using the region identity data, an assistance request; and, (d) initiating, using the assistance request, provision of the assistance. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the at least one region represents a user interactive element. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes, in the sensing device: (a) selecting a registration mode; and, (b) generating indicating data indicative of the selected registration mode. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the method includes, selecting the registration mode by at least one of: (a) using an input provided on the sensing device; and, (b) sensing an interface surface, the interface surface including coded data disposed thereon or therein, the sensing device being responsive to the coded data to select the registration mode. 10. The method of claim 8, the method including, in the computer system: (a) receiving the indicating data; (b) generating, using the received indicating data: (i) identity data indicative of the identity of the product item; and, (ii) mode data indicative of the registration mode; (c) determining, using the identity data and the mode data, an assistance request; and, (d) initiating, using the assistance request, provision of the assistance. 11. The method of claim 1, the method including, in the computer system: (a) selecting a registration mode; (b) receiving the indicating data; (c) generating, using the received indicating data, identity data indicative of the identity of the product item; (d) determining, using the identity data and the selected registration mode, an assistance request; and, (e) initiating, using the assistance request, provision of the assistance. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the method includes selecting the registration mode by at least one of: (a) using an input provided on the computer system; and, (b) in the computer system: (i) receiving mode indicating data from a sensing device, the sensing device being responsive to sensing of coded data provided on a respective mode interface surface to generate indicating data indicative of the registration mode; (ii) generating, using the received indicating data, mode data indicative of the registration mode; and, (iii) using the mode data to select the registration mode. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: (a) receiving the indicating data; (b) generating, using the received indicating data, request data indicative of an assistance request; and, (c) transferring the request data to a second computer system, the second computer system being responsive to the request data to provide the assistance. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: (a) providing a details request; and, (b) receiving details of the assistance required. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the details request is provided on a details interface surface, the details interface surface having disposed thereon or therein coded data which includes, at a plurality of locations on the interface surface, a corresponding plurality of coded data portions, each coded data portion being indicative of an identity of the details interface surface and the position of the coded data portion, the method including, in the sensing device: (a) sensing at least some of the coded data portions; (b) generating, using the sensed interface surface, details indicating data indicative of: (i) the identity of the details interface surface; and, (ii) movement of the sensing device relative to the coded data portions; (c) transferring the details indicating data to the computer system, the computer system being responsive to the details indicating data to identify an assistance request and initiate provision of assistance to a user. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: (a) receiving the details indicating data; (b) generating, using the received details indicating data: (i) movement data indicative of the movement of the sensing device relative to the interface surface; and, (ii) details identity data indicative of the identity of the details interface surface; (c) determining, using the details identity data and the movement data, details data indicative of the details of the assistance required; and, (d) initiating, using the details data, provision of the assistance. 17. A method of providing assistance relating to a product item, wherein the method includes providing the product item with an associated interface surface, the interface surface having disposed thereon or therein a plurality of coded data portions provided at respective positions on the interface surface, each coded data portion being indicative of an identity of the product item such that when the coded data portion is sensed by a sensing device, the sensing device generates indicating data indicative of the product item identity, the indicating data being transferred to a computer system which is responsive to the indicating data to identify an assistance request and initiate provision of assistance to a user. 18. The method of any one of claims 1 and 17, wherein the assistance includes: (a) product servicing; (b) product registration; (c) provision of a product access code for allowing the product to be used; and, (d) provision of product information; (e) provision of product help services. 19. The method of any one of claims 1 and 17, wherein the assistance is provided by at least one of: (a) the computer system; (b) a second computer system; and, (c) an entity associated with the product item. 20. The method of any one of claims 1 and 17, wherein the coded data is substantially invisible to the unaided eye. 21. The method of any one of claims 1 and 17, wherein the coded data is printed using infrared ink. 22. The method of any one of claims 1 and 17, wherein the coded data is provided on the interface surface coincident with visible markings representing at least one of: (a) product information; (b) the identity of the product item; and, (c) an assistance request. 23. The method of any one of claims 1 and 17, wherein the interface surface is at least a portion of at least one of: (a) product item packaging; (b) product item labelling; (c) product manuals; (d) product instructions; and, (e) a surface of the product item. 24. The method of any one of claims 1 and 17, wherein the coded data is disposed over at least one of: (a) substantially all of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label; (b) more than 25% of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label; (c) more than 50% of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label; (d) more than 75% of any one of: (i) an entire product surface; (ii) packaging; and, (iii) a product label. 25. A sensing device for use in requesting assistance relating to a product item, the product item including an associated interface surface, the interface surface having disposed thereon or therein a plurality of coded data portions provided at respective positions on the interface surface, each coded data portion being indicative of an identity of the product item, the sensing device including: (a) a sensor for sensing at least one coded data portion; (b) a processor for generating indicating data indicative of the product item identity; and, (c) a communication means for transferring the indicating data to a computer system, the computer system being responsive to the indicating data to identify an assistance request and initiate provision of assistance to a user. 26. A product item, the product item having an associated interface surface, the interface surface having disposed thereon or therein a plurality of coded data portions provided at respective positions on the interface surface, each coded data portion being indicative of an identity of the product item such that when the coded data portion is sensed by a sensing device, the sensing device generates indicating data indicative of the product item identity, the indicating data being transferred to a computer system which is responsive to the indicating data to identify an assistance request and initiate provision of assistance to a user. 