Techniques for imaging a search region to detect a dielectric target include placing multiple electrodes outside the search region. At least two electrodes are activated independently of each other. Emitter circuits are connected to corresponding emitter electrodes. Each emitter circuit is configured for using its emitter electrode to produce an electric field with wavelength longer than about one hundred meters. Receiver circuits are connected to corresponding receiver electrodes. Each receiver circuit is configured for using its receiver electrode to measure a property of an electric field produced, at least in part, by an emitter electrode. A processor determines a property of a dielectric target inside the search region based on measurements from the receiver circuits using a subset of the emitter circuits. Among other uses, these techniques allow humans to be detected inside building-size regions, even when hidden by visually opaque blocking material of small dielectric constant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for mapping dielectric objects in a building scale search region, comprising: (a) positioning a a three-dimensional array of electrodes to bound the search region; (b) driving particular electrodes in a defined sequence with signals having predetermined wavelengths longer than a dimension of the search region; (c) measuring resulting electric fields using one or more of the electrodes not being driven; (d) determining, based on fields measured, a three or quasi two-dimensional map of complex permitivities in the search region; and (e) from the three or quasi two-dimensional map of dielectric permitivities in the search area, creating a three or quasi two-dimensional map of objects in the search region. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined wavelengths are longer than about one hundred meters. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein a particular electrode is driven to produce an electric field at a first time and is used to measure an electric field at a second time. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein: step (b) comprises producing electric fields at each of a plurality of frequencies; and step (d) comprises determining a dielectric map as a function of alternating current frequency of an induced field. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein step (d) comprises: (e) distinguishing a biological object from a non-biological object based at least in part on reconstruction and/or direct measurements of the frequency dependent complex permittivity. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein step (d) comprises determining at least one of: a complex permitivity of the dielectric object; a position of the dielectric object within the search region; a size of the dielectric object; an elongation of the dielectric object; an orientation of the dielectric object when it has an elongated shape; and a spectrally dependent complex permitivity of the dielectric object. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (e) associating a complex permitivity of the dielectric object with a biological entity. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) comprises positioning the plurality of electrodes so that they are separated from dielectric objects using a blocking material having differentiable complex permittivity. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the blocking material is visually opaque. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein step (a) comprises positioning the plurality of electrodes so that they are not in physical contact with the blocking material. 11. The method of claim 8, further comprising embedding one or more blocking materials with conducting sub structures. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) comprises adaptively repositioning at least one electrode to optimize performance of step (d). 13. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) comprises positioning at least one electrode with respect to a second electrode to optimize performance of step (d). 14. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) comprises positioning a first electrode so that is spaced more than about five meters from a second electrode. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (e) excluding a first particular electrode of the plurality of electrodes from measuring during production of a particular electric field by a second particular electrode of the plurality of the electrodes. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein step (e) performs the excluding to optimize performance of step (d). 17. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises producing an electric field using only one electrode at a time. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises: determining a particular temporal and spatial sequence for driving electrodes of the plurality of electrodes to optimize step (d); and producing electric fields using electrodes of the plurality of electrodes in the particular temporal and spatial sequence. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises using a particular electrode to measure that is also driven to produce an electric field. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises measuring an electrical potential of the electric field at an electrode of the plurality of electrodes. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises measuring a current induced by the electric field at an electrode of the plurality of electrodes. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises measuring an associated magnetic field at an electrode of the plurality of electrodes. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein step (d) comprises modeling based on inversion including performing a forward computation that includes representing the dielectric object as an object that allows an analytical solution for the property of the electric field at an electrode of the plurality of electrodes. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein: step (b) comprises (b1) producing a first electric field using a first electrode of the plurality of electrodes and (b2) producing a second electric field using a second electrode of the plurality of electrodes after producing the first electric field; and step (a) comprises positioning the electrode after step (b1) and before step (b2). 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising: (e) determining a position change for an electrode with respect to a different electrode based on measuring a first electric field using a first subset of the plurality of electrodes, wherein step (a) comprises repositioning the electrode according to the position change. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein step (e) comprises determining the position change to optimize step (d). 27. The method of claim 24, wherein the first emitter electrode is the same as the second emitter electrode. 28. The method of claim 24 wherein the first electrode is different from the second electrode. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises emitting one or more temporal pulses of an electric field, each pulse comprising a combination of a plurality of wavelengths, each wavelength being longer than about one hundred meters. 