A system of self-organizing mobile robotic agents (MRAs) in a multi-robotic system (MRS) is disclosed. MRAs cooperate, learn and interact with the environment. The system uses various AI technologies including genetic algorithms, genetic programming and evolving artificial neural networks to develop emergent dynamic behaviors. The collective behaviors of autonomous intelligent robotic agents are applied to numerous applications. The system uses hybrid control architectures. The system also develops dynamic coalitions of groups of autonomous MRAs for formation and reformation in order to perform complex tasks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: a plurality of mobile robotic agents (MRAs); and a plurality of intelligent mobile software agents (IMSAs), the IMSAs comprising software means for allowing MRAs to communicate, interact and collaborate with other MRAs; the MRAs being arranged to construct a self-organizing map of an uncertain environment by creating an initial map based on initial sensor data organization, to moving to new locations, obtaining sensor data from the environment at the new locations; and filling out the initial map to create a fuller picture of terrain to include formerly missing parts of the initial map. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the MRAs are arranged to fill out the initial map using caching techniques that add the most recent information to a map outline. 3. A system for managing aggregated regrouping, comprising: a plurality of mobile robotic agents (MRAs); and a plurality of intelligent negotiation agents (INAs); wherein the plurality of sub-groups of MRAs are assigned their respective priorities; wherein each sub-group of MRAs is initially organized into a specific spatial configuration; wherein new sensor data on environmental change is organized by INAs; wherein INAs determine the priority of MRA functions; wherein INAs transfer software code to MRAs; wherein MRAs are operable to receive code from INAs; wherein the specific spatial configuration of each sub-group of MRAs is determined based on information from one or more inputs from the environment; wherein the specific spatial configuration of each sub-group of MRAs is changed in response to the information from one or more inputs from the environment. 4. The system of claim 3 where in a sub-group of MRAs continually adjusts its configuration. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein adjusting the configuration includes adding additional MRAs. 6. A system for rendering decisions for mobile robotic agents, comprising: a plurality of mobile robotic agents (MRAs); and a plurality of intelligent negotiation agents (INAs); wherein initial program parameters are transmitted to MRAs; wherein INAs are used to transmit data between MRAs; wherein sensor data from member MRAs is transmitted to other member MRAs; wherein sensor data is weighted by INAs and ranked by priority of importance; wherein sensor data is further interpreted by INAs by comparing it with mission parameters; wherein the INAs calculate a plurality of possible simulations to meet mission goals; wherein INAs use a plurality of methods to test the plurality of possible simulations using the sensor data and the initial mission parameters to determine the best simulation to meet the mission goals; and wherein the INAs generate instructions and transmit the instructions to the member MRAs to allow the member MRAs to form an optimal geometric configuration according to the best simulation. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein a plurality of INAs resolves the plurality of methods used to resolve a conflict and make a decision. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein a plurality of INAs resolves the conflict by comparing MRA priorities with initial program parameters. 9. The system of claim 7 wherein at least two MRAs provide sensor data to allow a plurality of INAs to resolve the conflict. 