In one embodiment of the present invention, a shape memory alloy ("SMA")-actuated flow controller comprises a number of grille members, each having a long axis and being slideable relative to one another parallel to that long axis. The SMA-actuated flow controller also includes a frame configured to guide the number of grille members, and an actuator disposed within the frame to move at least one of the number of grille members for varying a size of an aperture. Further, the actuator includes an SMA actuator that includes a number of SMA elements each connecting one grille member to another.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A shape memory alloy actuator, comprising: a rotatable member having a shaft along an axis about which said rotatable member rotates; and an actuator disposed within said shaft and configured to generate a force causing said rotatable member to rotate, said actuator comprising a shape memory alloy ("SMA") actuator including a number of SMA elements, each of said number of SMA elements includes a first end connected to a first attachment point anchored on an immovable structure, each of said number of SMA elements further includes a corresponding point located within the shaft, the corresponding point being located off said axis of rotation of said shaft, wherein an amount of rotating force is generated by each of said number of SMA elements at said corresponding point in a first direction of rotation when said SMA element is actuated. 2. The SMA actuator of claim 1 further comprising a housing configured to support said rotatable member, said housing adaptable for disposition in series with a passage. 3. The SMA actuator of claim 2, wherein each of said number of SMA elements includes a second end connected to a second attachment point anchored on said immovable structure or another immovable structure, said corresponding point located between said first end and said second end, where said axis of rotation is located off a plane passing through said first attachment point, said second attachment point, and said corresponding point. 4. The SMA actuator of claim 3, wherein said corresponding point contacts a conversion point that is rigidly affixed to an interior surface of said shaft. 5. The SMA actuator of claim 3, wherein said corresponding point contacts a conversion point that is located on a lever-type structure, which is rigidly affixed to said shaft. 6. The SMA actuator of claim 1, wherein the SMA actuator includes a restoring mechanism configured to restore the rotatable member to a position before rotation. 7. The SMA actuator of claim 6, wherein said restoring mechanism includes a spring. 8. The SMA actuator of claim 6, wherein said restoring mechanism includes an antagonistic arrangement of at least two of the SMA elements. 9. The SMA actuator of claim 2, wherein the passage comprises an air duct and rotation of the rotatable member adjusts flow of air in the duct. 10. The SMA actuator of claim 9, wherein two of the SMA elements are arranged in an antagonistic arrangement. 