A system is configured to obtain electromagnetic data from a circuit board. A set of sensing locations resides in a plane which is substantially parallel to the circuit board. The system includes a probe, a robotic assembly coupled to the probe, and a controller coupled to the probe and the robotic assembly. The controller is configured to move the probe to various sensing locations (e.g., a two-dimensional grid of sensing locations) and collect electromagnetic data from these sensing locations. The controller is further configured to provide an electromagnetic data output based on the collected electromagnetic data. The controller is further configured to direct the probe (or an adjacent probe) to emit electromagnetic interference at these locations in order to determine the effect of such interference on circuit board operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for obtaining electromagnetic data from a circuit board, a set of sensing locations residing in a plane which is substantially parallel to the circuit board, the method comprising: moving a probe to a first sensing location residing in the plane and collecting first electromagnetic data using the probe; moving the probe from the first sensing location residing in the plane to a second sensing location residing in the plane and collecting second electromagnetic data using the probe; and providing an electromagnetic data output based on the first and second electromagnetic data, wherein a robotic assembly couples to the probe, and wherein moving the probe from the first sensing location residing in the plane to the second sensing location residing in the plane and collecting the second electromagnetic data using the probe includes: outputting an actuation signal to the robotic assembly to position the probe at the second sensing location; receiving a confirmation signal from the robotic assembly to confirm that the probe is positioned at the second sensing location; and detecting electromagnetic emissions from the circuit board using the probe while the probe is positioned at the second sensing location, and wherein a spectrum analyzer couples to the probe, and wherein detecting the electromagnetic emissions from the circuit board using the probe while the probe is positioned at the second sensing location includes: monitoring the electromagnetic emissions at the second sensing location using the spectrum analyzer. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein the sensing locations are arranged in multiple rows and multiple columns within the plane to form a two-dimensional array; and wherein the first sensing location and the second sensing location reside in a same row and further reside in adjacent columns. 3. A method as in claim 2, further comprising: moving the probe to other sensing locations and collecting electromagnetic data at the other sensing locations using the probe to obtain, in a step-by-step manner, a database of electromagnetic data, the electromagnetic data output being derived from the database of electromagnetic data. 4. A method as in claim 3 wherein the circuit board is configured to repeat a pre-defined script of operations within a predetermined amount of time; and wherein robotic assembly is configured to hold the probe still at each sensing location for at least the predetermined amount of time. 5. A method as in claim 1 wherein monitoring the electromagnetic emissions includes: identifying a maximum amplitude of the electromagnetic emissions over a preset frequency range. 6. A method as in claim 5 wherein the preset frequency range is a user-selected one of a plurality of distinct preset frequency ranges, and wherein the present frequency range is about a preset center frequency being a user-selected one of a plurality of distinct center frequencies, and further comprising receiving a user selection of both the user-selected preset frequency range and the user-selected center frequency. 7. A method as in claim 5 wherein providing the electromagnetic data output includes: rendering a set of images on an output device, the set of images showing maximum amplitudes of electromagnetic emissions collected at each sensing location at multiple frequencies. 8. A method as in claim 7 wherein each of the images shows maximum amplitude of electromagnetic emissions collected at each sensing location over a respective distinct frequency range about a respective distinct center frequency. 9. A method as in claim 8 wherein the set of images are rendered sequentially in response to user selection of an animate menu selection. 10. A method as in claim 1 wherein the probe includes a first sense winding and a second sense winding, a portion of the first sense winding being substantially orthogonal to a portion of the second sense winding at an end of the probe; and wherein moving the probe from the first sensing location residing in the plane to the second sensing location residing in the plane and collecting second electromagnetic data using the probe includes: positioning the portions of the first and second sense windings adjacent the circuit board at the second sensing location. 11. A method as in claim 10 wherein the portion of the first sense winding and the portion of the second sense winding are substantially flat and reside within the plane. 12. A system for obtaining electromagnetic data from a circuit board, a set of sensing locations residing in a plane which is substantially parallel to the circuit board, the system comprising: a probe; a robotic assembly coupled to the probe; and a controller coupled to the probe and the robotic assembly, the controller being configured to: move the probe to a first sensing location residing in the plane and collect first electromagnetic data using the probe; move the probe from the first sensing location residing in the plane to a second sensing location residing in the plane and collect second electromagnetic data using the probe; and provide an electromagnetic data output based on the first and second electromagnetic data, wherein the controller, when moving the probe from the first sensing location residing in the plane to the second sensing location residing in the plane and collecting the second electromagnetic data using the probe, is configured to: output an actuation signal to the robotic assembly to position the probe at the second sensing location; receive a confirmation signal from the robotic assembly to confirm that the probe is positioned at the second sensing location; and detect electromagnetic emissions from the circuit board using the probe while the probe is positioned at the second sensing location, and wherein the controller includes: a spectrum analyzer coupled to the probe, the spectrum analyzer being configured to monitor electromagnetic emissions at the sensing locations using the probe. 13. A system as in claim 12 wherein the sensing locations are arranged in multiple rows and multiple columns within the plane to form a two-dimensional array; and wherein the first sensing location and the second sensing location reside in a same row and further reside in adjacent columns. 14. A system as in claim 13 wherein the controller is further configured to: move the probe to other sensing locations and collect electromagnetic data at the other sensing locations using the probe to obtain, in a step-by-step manner, a database of electromagnetic data, the electromagnetic data output being derived from the database of electromagnetic data. 15. A system as in claim 14 wherein the circuit board is configured to repeat a pre-defined script of operations within a predetermined amount of time; and wherein the controller is configured to direct the robotic assembly to hold the probe still at each sensing location for at least the predetermined amount of time. 16. A system as in claim 12 wherein the spectrum analyzer, when monitoring the electromagnetic emissions at the sensing locations using the probe, is configured to: identifying a maximum amplitude of the electromagnetic emissions over a preset frequency range at each of the sensing locations. 17. A system as in claim 16 wherein the preset frequency range is a user-selected one of a plurality of distinct preset frequency ranges, and wherein the present frequency range is about a preset center frequency being a user-selected one of a plurality of distinct center frequencies, and wherein the controller is configured to receive a user selection of both the user-selected preset frequency range and the user-selected center frequency. 18. A system as in claim 16 wherein the controller, when providing the electromagnetic data output, is configured to: render a set of images on an output device, the set of images showing maximum amplitudes of electromagnetic emissions collected at each sensing location at multiple frequencies. 19. A system as in claim 18 wherein each of the images shows maximum amplitude of electromagnetic emissions collected at each sensing location over a respective distinct frequency range about a respective distinct center frequency. 20. A system as in claim 19 wherein the controller is configured to render the images sequentially in response to user selection of an animate menu selection. 21. A system as in claim 12 wherein the probe includes a first sense winding and a second sense winding, a portion of the first sense winding being substantially orthogonal to a portion of the second sense winding at an end of the probe. 22. A system as in claim 21 wherein the portion of the first sense winding and the portion of the second sense winding are substantially flat and reside within the plane. 