A fully integrated system and method that provides for a system that generates fundamental differences between a host system and sensory data. The system processing covers a series of contrasting sensory data ranges that are comprised of sensory streams, sight, sound, temperature, etc. The ranges establish a point of reference within a host system for contrast with external sensory data. A static range of the system is contrasted with the active range producing an impact variation (a measurable difference) between the ranges. The processing effected by the system utilizes the monitored impact variations resulting from the contrasting sensory ranges, in conjunction with multiple sensory stream integration to resolve the problem of retaining sensory data objectivity when sensory data is internalized by a system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of eliciting a response to external stimuli by a robotic device, comprising the steps of: determining a static range of potential first stimuli; inputting said static range of each of said first stimuli into a first memory device; determining an actual range of each of said first stimuli; sensing the actual value of each of said first stimuli; calculating the absolute value of said actual value of each of said first stimuli; comparing all of said absolute values of said first stimuli with each other to determine the intensity of each of said first stimuli; comparing said actual value of each of said first stimuli with said static range of each of said first stimuli to establish an impact variation; and determining whether said impact variation of each of said first stimuli is within said static range of each of said first stimuli. 2. The method in accordance with claim 1, including the step of updating a second memory device based upon said impact variation with respect to said first stimuli. 3. The method in accordance with claim 2, further including the step of moving said robotic device away from one of said first stimuli, when said impact variation of at least one of said first stimuli is outside of its respective static range. 4. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein said first stimuli includes light and temperature. 5. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein said first stimuli includes power. 6. A system for eliciting a response to external stimuli by a robotic device comprising: a plurality of sensors for sensing the actual value of a plurality of stimuli; a calculating device for determining the intensity value of said active value of each of said stimuli; a first memory device provided with a static range of each of said plurality of stimuli; a comparison device for comparing said intensity value of each of said actual value with each other and for comparing said intensity values with said static range of values; and an actuating device for actuating the movement of at least one moveable device based upon an output generated by said comparison device. 7. The system in accordance with claim 6, further including a second memory device for including information stored therein based upon said intensity values of each of said plurality of stimuli. 