A novel CC-chemokine binding protein is isolated from the saliva of Rhipicephalus sanguineus. Compounds prepared in accordance with the present invention can be used as anti-inflammatory compounds and in the treatment or prevention of CC-chemokine-related diseases.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An isolated polypeptide comprising: a) SEQ ID NO: 5; b) SEQ ID NO: 6; c) SEQ ID NO: 17; d) SEQ ID NO: 18; or e) a fusion protein comprising any one of a), b), c), or d) operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from: an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a signal peptide, an export signal or a tag sequence. 2. The isolated polypeptide according to claim 1, wherein said polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO: 5. 3. The isolated polypeptide according to claim 1, wherein said polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO: 6. 4. The isolated polypeptide according to claim 1, wherein said polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO: 17. 5. The isolated polypeptide according to claim 1, wherein said polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO: 18. 6. The isolated polypeptide according to claim 1, wherein said polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising SEQ ID NO:5 operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from: an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a signal peptide, an export signal or a tag sequence. 7. The isolated polypeptide according to claim 1, wherein said polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising SEQ ID NO:6 operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from: an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a signal peptide, an export signal or a tag sequence. 8. The isolated polypeptide according to claim 1, wherein said polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising SEQ ID NO: 17 operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from: an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a signal peptide, an export signal or a tag sequence. 9. The isolated polypeptide according to claim 1, wherein said polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising SEQ ID NO:18 operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from: an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a signal peptide, an export signal or a tag sequence. 10. An isolated nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide according to claim 1. 11. The isolated nucleic acid according to claim 10, said nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO: 5. 12. The isolated nucleic acid according to claim 10, said nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO: 6. 13. The isolated nucleic acid according to claim 10, said nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO: 17. 14. The isolated nucleic acid according to claim 10, said nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO: 18. 15. The isolated nucleic acid according to claim 10, said nucleic acid encoding a fusion protein comprising SEQ ID NO:5 operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from: an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a signal peptide, an export signal or a tag sequence. 16. The isolated nucleic acid according to claim 10, said nucleic acid encoding SEQ ID NO:6 operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from: an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a signal peptide, an export signal or a tag sequence. 17. The isolated nucleic acid according to claim 10, said nucleic acid encoding a fusion protein comprising SEQ ID NO:17 operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from: an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a signal peptide, an export signal or a tag sequence. 18. The isolated nucleic acid according to claim 10, said nucleic acid encoding a fusion protein comprising SEQ ID NO:18 operably linked to a heterologous sequence selected from: an extracellular domain of a membrane-bound protein, an immunoglobulin constant region, a multimerization domain, a signal peptide, an export signal or a tag sequence. 19. The isolated nucleic acid according to claim 10, wherein said nucleic acid molecule comprises SEQ ID NO: 3. 20. The isolated nucleic acid according to claim 10, wherein said nucleic acid molecule comprises SEQ ID NO: 4. 21. The isolated nucleic acid according to claim 10, wherein said nucleic acid molecule comprises SEQ ID NO: 15. 22. The isolated nucleic acid according to claim 10, wherein said nucleic acid molecule comprises SEQ ID NO: 16. 23. A cloning or expression vector comprising a nucleic acid according to claim 10. 24. An isolated host cell comprising a cloning or expression vector according to claim 23. 25. A method of preparing a polypeptide, comprising culturing a host cell according to claim 24 under conditions allowing or promoting expression of the polypeptide. 26. The method according to claim 25, further comprising purifying the protein. 27. The method according to claim 25, further comprising formulating the protein in a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or diluent. 28. A method of inducing an immune response to a polypeptide according to claim 1 comprising administering a composition comprising a polypeptide according to claim 1 to an animal in an amount effective to induce an immune response to said polypeptide. 29. A method of reducing the chemotactic activity of MIP-1.alpha. or RANTES comprising contacting MIP-1.alpha. or RANTES with a composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent and a polypeptide according to claim 1. 30. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a polypeptide of claim 1. 