A method and device for reciprocally assigning a spatial position of a patient and/or a part of a patient's body and an acquired, stored patient data set includes producing at least two video image recordings of the patient and/or part of the body from different recording positions via at least one video image source, wherein a three-dimensional position and/or orientation of the video image source relative to a reference coordinate system is known or can be determined. Corresponding tuples of points are identified in the video image recordings, and three-dimensional spatial positions are ascertained and stored from the identified tuples of points. The stored patient data set are matched to a point set of the assigned spatial positions, and a reciprocal assignment or registration of the spatial position of the patient and/or part of the body and the patient data set is determined when the greatest or best match has been achieved.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for reciprocally assigning a spatial position of a patient and/or a part of a patient's body and an acquired, stored patient data set, comprising the steps of: producing at least two video image recordings of the patient and/or part of the body from different recording positions via at least one video image source, wherein a three-dimensional position and/or orientation of the video image source relative to a reference coordinate system is known or can be determined; identifying corresponding tuples of points in the video image recordings; ascertaining and storing three-dimensional spatial positions from the identified tuples of points; matching the stored patient data set to a point set of the assigned spatial positions; determining a reciprocal assignment or registration of the spatial position of the patient and/or part of the body and the patient data set when the greatest or best match has been achieved. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein matching between the point set and the patient data set is found by minimizing a distance between the points from the point set and corresponding points in the patient data set using metrics. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein matching between the point set and the patient data set is found by minimizing a distance between the points from the point set and the virtual surface of the patient generated from the patient data set using metrics. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the position of the video image source relative to the reference coordinate system is ascertained by attaching a tracking reference to the at least one video image source, the tracking reference located within a detection range of a tracking system. 5. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the position of the video image source relative to the reference coordinate system is ascertained by a calibration process. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising attaching the video image source to a mechanical positioning system to ascertain the position of the video image source relative to the reference coordinate system. 7. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising using a medical navigation system to match and store the patient data set and the point set, wherein a tracking system is assigned to the navigation system. 8. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising using two or more video image sources. 9. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising using image feature points to assist in identifying the corresponding tuples of points. 10. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising projecting on to, plotting on, or attaching to the patient and/or part of the body artificial landmark points to assist in identifying the corresponding tuples of points. 11. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising using natural, identifiable landmarks of the patient and/or part of the body as tuples of points. 12. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising using a computer-assisted morphing method of the video images to assist in identifying the corresponding tuples of points. 13. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein matching the stored patient data set to the point set of the assigned spatial positions includes using a computer-assisted matching method. 14. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising using at least one video camera as the video image source, wherein the at least one video camera is tracked by at least two tracking cameras of a tracking system. 15. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising using at least one video camera as the video image source, wherein the at least one video camera is tracked by a magnetic tracking system. 16. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising using a surgical microscope as the video image source. 17. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising using an endoscope as the video image source. 18. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising performing a re-assignment and/or re-registration at least in sections after the patient or part of the patient's body has been shifted or its shape changed. 19. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the at least one video image source is coupled to a medical instrument. 20. The method as set forth in claim 19, wherein the at least one video image source is within the medical instrument. 21. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein video image source operates in the non-visible range of light. 22. A computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions adapted to perform the method in accordance with claim 1. 23. A device for patient registration with video image assistance, comprising: at least one video image source for recording at least two video images of a patient and/or a part of a patient's body from different recording positions; a tracking reference coupled to the video image source; and a computational unit that assigns corresponding tuples of points from the at least two recorded video images to three-dimensional spatial positions and substantially matches a stored patient data set to the point set of the assigned spatial positions, wherein said computation unit is connectable to the at least one video image source. 24. The device for patient registration with video image assistance as set forth in claim 23, further comprising: a tracking system for detecting the three-dimensional spatial position of the video image source, wherein the computational unit substantially matches the stored patient data set to the point set of the assigned spatial positions until a distance between the points from the point set and corresponding points in the patient data set and/or a virtual surface generated from the patient data set reaches a minimum value, wherein said computational unit is connectable to the tracking system and/or the at least one video image source. 25. A computer-readable medium embodied with a computer program for reciprocally assigning a spatial position of a patient and/or a part of a patient's body and an acquired, stored patient data set, comprising code that directs the production of at least two video image recordings of the patient and/or part of the body from different recording positions via at least one video image source, wherein a three-dimensional position and/or orientation of the video image source relative to a reference coordinate system is known or can be determined; code that identifies corresponding tuples of points in the video image recordings; code that ascertains and stores three-dimensional spatial positions from the identified tuples of points; code that matches the stored patient data set to a point set of the assigned spatial positions; code that determines a reciprocal assignment or registration of the spatial position of the patient and/or part of the body and the patient data set when the greatest or best match has been achieved. 26. The method according to claim 1, further comprising using a tracking system to determine the three-dimensional position of the at least one video image source. 27. The method according to claim 1, further comprising transforming a corresponding tupple of points from the at least two video image recordings into a common coordinate system so as generate a common three-dimensional antecedent point. 28. The method according to claim 1, further comprising transforming a landmark point from the at least two video image recordings into a common coordinate system so as generate a landmark point in the common coordinate system. 