Systems and methods allowing for the automatic control and scheduling of a staining apparatus for biological samples on slides present within the apparatus. In some embodiments, the actions of a robot coupled to the staining apparatus, which performs some of the staining tasks on the individual slides in accordance with their respective protocols, may be prioritized and scheduled. In some embodiments, the scheduling may result in increasing or maximizing the throughput of slides. In some embodiments, robot scheduling ensures that the individual slides are processed substantially within the tolerances specified by their respective protocols. In some embodiments, the robot scheduler may respond to spontaneous user actions and adaptively schedule or re-schedule robot actions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising steps for adaptively scheduling robot tasks in a time interval for a robot coupled to a stainer, wherein the robot treats slides coupled to the stainer according to a treatment protocol with reagents in reagent bottles or fluid containers coupled to the stainer, the steps comprising: creating a robot task list comprising all robot tasks that are ready for execution within the time interval; calculating a robot task priority for each robot task in the robot task list; sorting the robot task list in descending order of robot task priority; and adding robot tasks starting from the top of the sorted robot task list to a robot task execution queue until the robot is fully utilized in the time interval or the robot task list is exhausted. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps are performed autonomously by the stainer. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps are repeatedly executed for successive time intervals starting at the time the stainer is first powered on. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps are executed concurrent with the performance of other stainer and robot tasks. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein creating the robot task list further comprises adding robot tasks that have been generated as a result of contemporaneous events to the robot task list. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the contemporaneous events comprise one or more events from a set consisting of: introducing new slides into the stainer; adding or removing reagent bottles or fluid containers; and altering a priority assigned to one or more slide racks on which the slides are mounted. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein task types in the list of robot tasks further comprise one or more of: moving the robot to a position within the stainer; mixing reagents for a slide; applying a reagent to a slide from the reagent bottle or the fluid container; air blowing a slide; and tipping a slide to a horizontal or a vertical position; and capturing an image of a slide. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein applying a reagent to a slide from the reagent bottle or the fluid container further comprises one or more of: applying a buffer to a slide; and applying deionized water to a slide. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating a robot task priority for each robot task in the robot task list further comprises calculating a score for each robot task based on a mathematical function of sub-scores assigned to individual task parameters. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the individual task parameters further comprise the earliest start time for a task, the latest start time for a task, the time duration to execute the task, the location of the robot, the priority of the rack on which a slide associated with the task is mounted, and a predetermined relative priority for the robot task type. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the predetermined relative priority for a robot task may be one of high or low. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein certain robot tasks may be designated highest priority and added directly to the top of the robot's execution queue. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the robot tasks ready for execution comprise those robot tasks where no prerequisites for commencing robot task execution remain to be completed. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein creating a robot task list comprising all robot tasks that are ready for execution within the time interval further comprises: determining slides requiring a new treatment protocol step within the time interval; determining if robot tasks associated with the new treatment protocol step for each slide may be performed within the time interval; and substituting a task of applying buffer to a slide for each slide for which robot tasks associated with the new treatment protocol step cannot be performed within the time interval. 15. A computer readable memory containing instructions for controlling a processor to perform steps in a method for adaptively scheduling robot tasks in a time interval, for a robot coupled to a stainer, wherein the robot treats slides coupled to the stainer according to a treatment protocol with reagents in reagent bottles or fluid containers coupled to the stainer, the steps comprising: creating a robot task list comprising all robot tasks that are ready for execution within the time interval; calculating a robot task priority for each robot task in the robot task list; sorting the robot task list in descending order of robot task priority; and adding robot tasks starting from the top of the sorted robot task list to a robot task execution queue until robot the robot is fully utilized in the time interval or the robot task list is exhausted. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the steps are repeatedly executed for successive time intervals starting at the time the stainer is first powered on. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the steps are executed concurrent with the performance of other stainer and robot tasks. 18. A computer-readable medium that stores instructions, which when executed by a processor perform steps in a method for adaptively scheduling robot tasks in a time interval, for a robot coupled to a stainer, wherein the robot treats slides coupled to the stainer according to a treatment protocol with reagents in reagent bottles or fluid containers coupled to the stainer, the steps comprising: creating a robot task list comprising all robot tasks that are ready for execution within the time interval; calculating a robot task priority for each robot task in the robot task list; sorting the robot task list in descending order of robot task priority; and adding robot tasks starting from the top of the sorted robot task list to a robot task execution queue until robot the robot is fully utilized in the time interval or the robot task list is exhausted. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the steps are repeatedly executed for successive time intervals starting at the time the stainer is first powered on. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the steps are executed concurrent with the performance of other stainer and robot tasks. 