The present invention provides a surgical manipulator which capable of manipulating a surgical or medical tool in up to six degrees of freedom. The manipulator has a relatively lightweight, compact design as a result of the use of high force to mass ratio actuators. The manipulator includes a mounting fixture which permits the manipulator to be fixed relative to a portion of a body of a patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manipulator for use in performing medical procedures on a portion of a body of a patient, comprising: a medical tool; a positioning mechanism which carries the medical tool, the positioning mechanism being capable of moving the tool with at least one degree of freedom; a movable haptic interface that is adapted to receive manually input position information from an operator and which communicates with a manipulator controller that directs movement of the positioning mechanism; a remote position tracking system including an electromagnetic field generator for producing a multidimensional electromagnetic field in three mutually distinguishable dimensions, the position tracking system being capable of tracking the position of the medical tool and the body of the patient relative to a predetermined frame of reference in three dimensions as the tool is moved by the positioning mechanism, at least a portion of the remote position tracking system being arranged remotely from the positioning mechanism. 2. A manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the positioning mechanism comprises first and second arms which pivotably support the medical tool and which are movable independently of each other. 3. A manipulator according to claim 1 wherein the haptic interface is adapted to communicate position signals based on the position information to the manipulator controller and the manipulator controller is adapted to make predetermined adjustments to the position signals prior to directing movement of the positioning mechanism. 4. A manipulator for use in performing medical procedures on a portion of a body of a patient, comprising: a medical tool; a positioning mechanism which carries the medical tool, the positioning mechanism being capable of moving the tool with at least one degree of freedom; a movable haptic interface that is adapted to receive manually input position information from an operator and which communicates with a manipulator controller that directs movement of the positioning mechanism; a remote position tracking system including an electromagnetic field generator for producing a multidimensional electromagnetic field in three mutually distinguishable dimensions, the position tracking system being capable of tracking the position of the medical tool relative to a predetermined frame of reference in three dimensions as the tool is moved by the positioning mechanism, at least a portion of the remote position tracking system being arranged remotely from the positioning mechanism; a first remote field sensor carried by the tool for detecting the multidimensional electromagnetic field; and a second remote field sensor carried by the positioning mechanism or the body of the patient for detecting the multidimensional electromagnetic field. 5. A manipulator according to claim 4 wherein the haptic interface is adapted to communicate position signals based on the position information to the manipulator controller and the manipulator controller is adapted to make predetermined adjustments to the position signals prior to directing movement of the positioning mechanism. 6. A manipulator according to claim 4 wherein the positioning mechanism comprises first and second arms which pivotably support the medical tool and which are movable independently of each other. 