A method and apparatus for providing security to factory automation devices in a switched Ethernet network. Traffic between factory automation devices and an Ethernet switch is limited to packets including approved TCP/UDP port numbers and to selected data rates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: controlling traffic between devices in a group of devices coupled to physical ports of an Ethernet switching platform by enabling only a single Media Access Control (MAC) address for each physical port coupled to a device in the group, wherein the group of devices is included in an assembly line that is part of a factory automation system and wherein the group of devices is assigned its own virtual local area network (VLAN); ingress policing the physical ports on the Ethernet switching platform to allow only packets having source TCP or UDP port numbers of approved special factory automation protocols or network protocol packets to access the physical ports; and limiting transmission and reception data rates on the physical ports of the Ethernet switching platform to selected values. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: examining the first three bytes of a media access control (MAC) address included in packets sent from a device coupled to a first physical port of the Ethernet switching platform to determine the vendor of the device; and limiting traffic received on the first physical port to a selected vendor. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: designating at least two access physical ports as protected ports; and preventing forwarding traffic between access ports on the switching platform designated as protected ports. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: utilizing access control lists to ingress police received packets. 5. An apparatus comprising: means for controlling traffic between devices in a group of devices coupled to physical ports of an Ethernet switching platform by enabling only a single Media Access Control (MAC) address for each physical port coupled to a device in the group, wherein the group of devices is included in an assembly line that is part of a factory automation system and wherein the group of devices is assigned its own virtual local area network (VLAN); means for ingress policing the physical ports on the Ethernet switching platform to allow only packets having source TCP or UDP port numbers of approved special factory automation protocols or network protocol packets to access the physical ports; and means for limiting transmission and reception data rates on the physical ports of the Ethernet switching platform to selected values. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising: means for examining the first three bytes of a media access control (MAC) address included in packets sent from a device coupled to a first physical port of the Ethernet switching platform to determine the vendor of the device; and means for limiting traffic received on the first physical port to a selected vendor. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising: means for designating at least two access physical ports as protected ports; and means for preventing forwarding traffic between access ports on the switching platform designated as protected ports. 8. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising: means for utilizing access control lists to ingress police received packets. 9. One or more computer readable storage media encoded with software comprising computer executable instructions and with the software operable to: control traffic between devices in a group of devices coupled to physical ports of an Ethernet switching platform by enabling a single Media Access Control (MAC) address for each physical port coupled to a device in the group, wherein the group of devices is included in an assembly line that is part of a factory automation system and wherein the group of devices is assigned its own virtual local area network (VLAN); ingress police the physical ports on the Ethernet switching platform to allow only packets having source TCP or UDP port numbers of approved factory automation protocols or network protocol packets to access the physical ports; and limit transmission and reception data rates on the physical ports to selected values. 10. The computer readable storage media of claim 9 encoded with software when executed further operable to: examine the first three bytes of a media access control (MAC) address included in packets sent from a device coupled to a first port of the Ethernet switching platform to determine the vendor of the device; and limit traffic received on the first port to a selected vendor. 11. The computer readable storage media of claim 9 encoded with software when executed further operable to: designate at least two access physical ports as protected ports; and prevent forwarding traffic between access ports on the switching platform designated as protected ports. 12. The computer readable storage media of claim 9 encoded with software when executed further operable to: utilize access control lists to ingress police received packets. 