The present invention relates to eukaryotic host cells having modified oligosaccharides which may be modified further by heterologous expression of a set of glycosyltransferases, sugar transporters and mannosidases to become host-strains for the production of mammalian, e.g., human therapeutic glycoproteins. The process provides an engineered host cell which can be used to express and target any desirable gene(s) involved in glycosylation. Host cells with modified lipid-linked oligosaccharides are created or selected. N-glycans made in the engineered host cells exhibit GnTIII activity, which produce bisected N-glycan structures and may be modified further by heterologous expression of one or more enzymes, e.g., glycosyltransferases, sugar transporters and mannosidases, to yield human-like glycoproteins. For the production of therapeutic proteins, this method may be adapted to engineer cell lines in which any desired glycosylation structure may be obtained.
Claims We claim: 1. A yeast host cell that has been genetically engineered to be diminished or depleted in the activity of an initiating .alpha.-1,6-mannosylatransferase and to comprise a nucleic acid sequence encoding an .alpha.-1,2-mannosidase, a nucleic acid sequence encoding a N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase I (GnT I), and a nucleic acid sequence encoding an N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase III (GnT III). 2. The yeast host cell of claim 1, wherein the GnT III has intracellular catalytic activity. 3. The yeast host cell of claim 1, further comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding mannosidase II. 4. The yeast host cell of claim 1, wherein the GnT III produces a bisected glycan. 5. The yeast host cell of claim 1, wherein the initiating .alpha.-1,6-mannosylatransferase is OCH1. 6. The yeast host cell of claim 1, wherein the yeast is further diminished or depleted in the activity of Dol-P-Man:Man5GlcNAc2-PP-Dol mannosyltransferase. 7. The yeast host cell of claim 1, further comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a UDP N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (GlcNAc) transporter. 8. The yeast host cell of claim 1, wherein the yeast is methylotrophic. 9. A yeast host cell that has been genetically engineered to be diminished or depleted in the activity of an initiating .alpha.-1,6-mannosylatransferase and to comprise a nucleic acid sequence encoding an .alpha.-1,2-mannosidase, a nucleic acid sequence encoding an N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase I (GnT I), a nucleic acid sequence encoding an N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase II (GnT II), and a nucleic acid sequence encoding an N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase III (GnT III). 10. The yeast host cell of claim 9, wherein the GnT II and the GnT III have intracellular catalytic activity. 11. The yeast host cell of claim 9, further comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding mannosidase II. 12. The yeast host cell of claim 9, wherein the GnT III produces a bisected glycan. 13. The host cell of claim 9, wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of Pichia pastoris, Pichia finlandica, Pichia trehalophila, Pichia koclamae, Pichia membranaefaciens, Pichia opuntiae, Pichia thermotolerans, Pichia salictaria, Pichia guercuum, Pichia pijperi, Pichia stiptis, Pichia methanolica, Pichia sp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomyces sp., Hansenula polymorpha, Kluyveromyces sp., and Candida albicans. 14. The yeast host cell of claim 9, wherein the initiating .alpha.-1,6-mannosylatransferase is OCH1. 15. The yeast host cell of claim 9, wherein the yeast is further diminished or depleted in the activity of Dol-P-Man:Man5GlcNAc2-PP-Dol mannosyltransferase. 16. The yeast host cell of claim 9, further comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a UDP N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (GlcNAc) transporter. 17. The yeast host cell of claim 9, wherein the yeast is methylotrophic. 18. A yeast host cell that has been genetically engineered to be diminished or depleted in the activity of an initiating .alpha.-1,6-mannosylatransferase and to comprise a nucleic acid sequence encoding an .alpha.-1,2-mannosidase, a nucleic acid sequence encoding a N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase I (GnT I), a nucleic acid sequence encoding an N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase III (GnT III), and a nucleic acid sequence encoding a mannosidase II. 19. The yeast host cell of claim 18, wherein the initiating .alpha.-1,6-mannosylatransferase is OCH1. 20. The yeast host cell of claim 18, wherein the yeast is further diminished or depleted in the activity of Dol-P-Man:Man5GlcNAc2-PP-Dol mannosyltransferase. 21. The yeast host cell of claim 18, further comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a UDP N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (GlcNAc) transporter. 22. The yeast host cell of claim 18, wherein the yeast is methylotrophic. 