A legged ambulatory vehicle for transporting a load from a first location to a second location is disclosed. The ambulatory vehicle comprises a load that is able to shift the center of gravity of the ambulatory vehicle along a length of a beam assembly. Additionally, the leg assemblies of the ambulatory vehicle are configured to exchange places along the length of the beam assembly. Further, the vehicle is able to perform a number of gaits including a slow stable gait and faster dynamic gaits comprising striding, trotting, and bounding. The ambulatory vehicle is able to navigate rough terrain and steep slopes and navigate submerged.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ambulatory vehicle for transporting a load from a first location to a second location, comprising: a beam assembly comprising a first track, a second track and a third track, the third track configured to bear the load placed thereon, the load configured to shift along a length of the beam assembly; a first leg assembly coupled to the first track of the beam assembly, the first leg assembly configured to support the beam assembly and move along the length of the beam assembly; and a second leg assembly coupled to the second track of the beam assembly, the second leg assembly configured to support the beam assembly, move along the length of the beam assembly, and exchange places along the length of the beam assembly with the first leg assembly, wherein the first leg assembly or the second leg assembly are coupled to the beam assembly using a gimbal mount and wherein the first leg assembly passes through or outside of the second leg assembly. 2. The ambulatory vehicle of claim 1, further comprising a third leg assembly coupled to a fourth track of the beam assembly, the third leg assembly configured to support the beam assembly, move along the length of the beam assembly, and to exchange places along the length of the beam assembly with the first leg assembly or the second leg assembly. 3. The ambulatory vehicle of claim 1, wherein a first leg and a second leg are configured to retract from terrain prior to moving along the length of the beam assembly. 4. The ambulatory vehicle of claim 1, wherein the third track is further configured to shift a load placed on the third track relative to the beam assembly or a first leg to maintain a center of gravity of the system over a second leg while the first leg exchanges places along the length of the beam assembly with the second leg. 5. The ambulatory vehicle of claim 1, further comprising a load placed on the third track, wherein the load, the beam assembly or the second leg is configured to shift relative to a travel surface to maintain a center of gravity of the system over a first leg while a second leg exchanges places along the length of the beam assembly with the first leg. 6. The ambulatory vehicle of claim 1, further including a housing configured for the ambulatory system to operate in harsh environments. 7. The ambulatory vehicle of claim 1, wherein the first leg assembly is configured to recover braking energy. 8. The ambulatory vehicle of claim 1, wherein the second leg assembly includes legs configured to telescope. 9. The ambulatory vehicle of claim 1, further comprising roller on the third track and a load on the roller, the load configured to shift on the roller along a length of the third track. 10. An ambulatory vehicle for transporting a load from a first location to a second location, comprising: a beam assembly comprising a first track, a second track and a third track, the third track configured to bear the load placed thereon, the load configured to shift along a length of the beam assembly; a first leg assembly coupled to the first track of the beam assembly using a gimbal mount, the first leg assembly configured to support the beam assembly and to move along the length of the beam assembly, the first leg assembly further configured such that the beam assembly can rotate 360 degrees around the gimbal mount of the first leg assembly; and a second leg assembly coupled to the second track of the beam assembly using a gimbal mount, the second leg assembly configured to support the beam assembly, move along the length of the beam assembly, and exchange places along the length of the beam assembly with the first leg assembly, wherein the first leg assembly passes through the second leg assembly. 11. An ambulatory vehicle for transporting a load from a first location to a second location, comprising: a beam assembly comprising a first track, a second track and a third track, the third track configured to bear the load placed thereon, the load configured to shift along a length of the beam assembly; a first leg assembly comprising a first leg, the first leg assembly coupled to the first track of the beam assembly and configured to support the beam assembly and move along the length of the beam assembly; and a second leg assembly comprising a second leg, the second leg assembly coupled to the second track of the beam assembly and configured to support the beam assembly and move along the length of the beam assembly, the second leg assembly configured to pass around or pass through or outside the first leg, the first leg assembly configured to pass through the second leg assembly, wherein the first leg assembly or the second leg assembly are coupled to the beam assembly using a gimbal mount. 12. The ambulatory vehicle of claim 11, wherein a load placed on the third track, the beam assembly, or the first leg assembly are configured to shift relative to a travel surface to maintain a center of gravity over the second leg while the first leg exchanges places with the second leg. 13. The ambulatory vehicle of claim 11, further comprising a third leg assembly coupled to a fourth track of the beam assembly, the third leg assembly configured to support the beam assembly, move along the length of the beam assembly, and pass around or pass through the first leg assembly or the second leg assembly. 14. The ambulatory vehicle of claim 11, wherein the first leg is configured to pass through the second leg. 15. The ambulatory vehicle of claim 11, wherein the third track is configured to shift a load placed thereon and to maintain a movable center of gravity through movement of the load. 