A medication storing and dispensing cassette is comprised of a housing defining at least a portion of a bulk storage chamber for storing a medication, defining at least a portion of a pick-up area, and defining at least a portion of a discharge chute sized to temporarily store a quantity of the medication. A divider wall is positioned between the bulk storage chamber and the pick-up area. A gate is positioned to control an exit end of the discharge chute. A rotatable conveying wheel having openings proximate to the periphery thereof is positioned such that a portion of the wheel is in communication with the pick-up area while another portion of the wheel is adjacent to an entrance end of the discharge chute. A calibration arm is positioned adjacent the openings of the rotatable wheel. A baffle is positioned to block those openings in that portion of the rotatable wheel adjacent to the discharge chute. An air agitation system is provided so that pills may be moved from the bulk storage chamber to the pick-up area.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medication storing and dispensing cassette, comprising: a housing defining at least a portion of a chamber for storing a medication, at least a portion of a pick-up area, and defining at least a portion of a discharge chute sized to temporarily store a quantity of the medication; a divider wall positioned between said chamber for storing a medication and said pick-up area; a gate controlling an exit end of said discharge chute; a rotatable wheel having openings proximate to the periphery thereof, the openings being configured to pick up at least a portion of the medication, said wheel positioned such that a portion of said wheel is in communication with said pick-up area while another portion of said wheel is adjacent to an entrance end of said discharge chute; a calibration arm positioned adjacent said rotatable wheel; and a baffle positioned to block those openings in that portion of the wheel adjacent to said discharge chute so as to release the portion of the medication picked up by the openings. 2. The cassette of claim 1 wherein said openings are venturi shaped. 3. The cassette of claim 1 wherein said wheel has a driven portion accessible from outside said housing, said driven portion configured as a tapered disc. 4. The cassette of claim 1 wherein said housing has an air intake opening therein to enable airflow to agitate medication stored within said chamber. 5. The cassette of claim 1 additionally comprising a valve for selectively closing off said entrance end of said discharge chute. 6. The cassette of claim 5 wherein said valve is configured to open automatically upon insertion of said cassette into a counter. 7. The cassette of claim 1 wherein said baffle forms a portion of said discharge chute. 8. The cassette of claim 1 wherein said gate controlling an exit end of said discharge chute includes a chute gate biased into a closed position and a chute gate actuator for moving said chute gate into an open position, said chute gate forming a portion of said discharge chute and positioned such that an upper end of said chute gate is located adjacent and beneath certain of said openings in said wheel. 9. The cassette of claim 1 wherein said housing is comprised of a plurality of walls, one of said walls carrying a passive member to enable engagement with an automated device. 10. A medication storing and dispensing cassette, comprising: a housing defining at least a portion of a chamber for storing a medication, at least a portion of a pick-up area, and defining at least a portion of a discharge chute, said discharge chute having an entrance end within said housing and an exit end defining an exit from said housing; a divider wall positioned between said chamber for storing a medication and said pick-up area; a rotatable wheel having openings proximate to the periphery thereof, the openings being configured to pick up at least a portion of the medication, said wheel positioned such that a portion of said wheel is in communication with said pick-up area while another portion of said wheel is adjacent to said entrance end of said discharge chute; a calibration arm positioned adjacent said rotatable wheel; and a baffle positioned to block those openings in that portion of the wheel adjacent to said discharge chute so as to release the portion of the medication picked up by the openings, said housing having an air intake opening in communication with the bottom of said chamber. 11. The cassette of claim 10 wherein said openings are venturi shaped. 12. The cassette of claim 10 wherein said wheel has a driven portion accessible from outside said housing, said driven portion configured as a tapered disc. 13. The cassette of claim 10 additionally comprising a gate for controlling said exit end of said discharge chute. 14. The cassette of claim 13 wherein said discharge chute is sized to temporarily store a quantity of medication. 15. The cassette of claim 10 additionally comprising a valve for selectively closing off said entrance end of said discharge chute. 16. The cassette of claim 15 wherein said valve is configured to open automatically upon insertion of said cassette into a counter. 17. The cassette of claim 10 wherein said baffle forms a portion of said discharge chute. 18. The cassette of claim 10 additionally comprising a gate controlling said exit end of said discharge chute, said gate including a chute gate biased into a closed position and a chute gate actuator for moving said chute gate into an open position, said chute gate forming a portion of said discharge chute and positioned such that an upper end of said chute gate is located adjacent and beneath certain of said openings in said wheel. 19. The cassette of claim 10 wherein said housing is comprised of a plurality of walls, one of said walls carrying a passive member to enable engagement with an automateddevice. 