A robotic head for use in palletizing products includes a body having opposed ends. A portion of a first clamping assembly is pivotably connected at one end of the body and extends to a first lip, the portion having an axis of rotation that is substantially parallel to the first lip. A second clamping assembly is disposed at the opposite end of the body and is movable both toward and away from the first clamping assembly. The second clamping assembly includes a second segment having a second lip, the second segment being pivotably connected with respect to the rest of the second clamping assembly. The second segment has an axis of rotation that is substantially parallel to the second lip of the second segment. The first and second clamping assemblies are independently operable, and capable of manipulating a box or a tray pack containing products.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A clamp head for use in palletizing products comprising: a body having a first end and an opposed second end; a first clamping assembly comprising a first portion extending away from the body; and a second portion pivotably connected to the body adjacent the first portion, the first portion disposed between the second portion and the second end, the second portion extending to a second portion lip opposite the body, the second portion lip directed toward the second end and extendable between the first portion and the second end, the second portion having an axis of rotation that is substantially parallel to a juncture between the second portion lip and the second portion; and at least one second clamping assembly movably secured to the body between the first clamping assembly and the second end, the at least one second clamping assembly movable toward and away from the first clamping assembly, the at least one second clamping assembly comprising a first segment extending away from the body; and a second segment pivotably connected to an end of the first segment opposite the body, the second segment extending to a second segment lip directed toward the first clamping assembly, the at least one second segment having an axis of rotation that is substantially parallel to the second segment lip; wherein the first and second clamping assemblies are independently operable, and capable of manipulating a box, tray pack or spot pack containing products; and wherein the second portion lip is narrower than the second segment lip. 2. The clamp head of claim 1 wherein facing surfaces of the first clamping assembly and the at least one second clamping assembly are maintained substantially parallel to each other. 3. The clamp head of claim 1 wherein the first portion, the first segment and the second segment are substantially planar. 4. The clamp head of claim 1 wherein movement of the first clamping assembly and the at least one second clamping assembly is achieved by pneumatic actuators. 5. The clamp head of claim 1 wherein each at least one second segment is independently operable from each other. 6. The clamp head of claim 1 further comprising a device extending from the body for manipulating a slip-sheet. 7. The clamp head of claim 6 wherein at least a portion of the device is retractable. 8. The clamp head of claim 7 wherein at least a portion of the device is rotatable. 9. The clamp head of claim 8 wherein the device uses pneumatic suction to manipulate a slip-sheet. 10. The clamp head of claim 1 wherein the clamp head is connected to the end of a robotic arm. 11. A robot for use in palletizing products comprising: a base; an arm having a plurality of pivoting joints, the arm extending from the base to a clamp head comprising a body having a first end and an opposed second end; a first clamping assembly comprising a first portion extending away from the body; and a second portion pivotably connected to the body adjacent the first portion, the first portion disposed between the second portion and the second end, the second portion extending to a second portion lip opposite the body, the second portion lip directed toward the second end and extendable between the first portion and the second end, the second portion having an axis of rotation that is substantially parallel to a juncture between the second portion lip and the second portion; and at least one second clamping assembly movably secured to the body between the first clamping assembly and the second end, the at least one second clamping assembly movable toward and away from the first clamping assembly, the at least one second clamping assembly comprising a first segment extending away from the body; and a second segment pivotably connected to an end of the first segment opposite the body, the second segment extending to a second segment lip directed toward the first clamping assembly, the at least one second segment having an axis of rotation that is substantially parallel to the second segment lip; wherein the first and second clamping assemblies are independently operable, and capable of manipulating a box, tray pack or spot pack containing products; and wherein the second portion lip is narrower than the second segment lip. 12. The robot of claim 11 wherein facing surfaces of the first clamping assembly and the at least one second clamping assembly are maintained substantially parallel to each other. 13. The robot of claim 11 wherein the first portion, the first segment and the second segment are substantially planar. 14. The robot of claim 11 wherein movement of the first clamping assembly and the at least one second clamping assembly is achieved by pneumatic actuators. 15. The robot of claim 11 wherein each at least one second segment is independently operable from each other. 16. The robot of claim 11 further comprising a device extending from the body for manipulating a slip-sheet. 17. The robot of claim 16 wherein at least a portion of the device is retractable. 18. A robotic clamp head for use in palletizing products comprising: a frame having a first end and an opposed second end; a first clamping assembly comprising a substantially planar first portion extending substantially vertically away from the frame; and a second portion pivotably connected to the frame adjacent the first portion, the first portion disposed between the second portion and the second end, the second portion extending to a second portion lip opposite the frame, the second portion lip directed toward the second end and extendable between the first portion and the second end, the second portion having an axis of rotation that is substantially parallel to a juncture between the second portion lip and the second portion, the second portion being movable by a pneumatic actuator; and a pair of second clamping assemblies, each second clamping assembly movably secured to the frame between the first clamping assembly and the second end of the frame, each of the pair of second clamping assemblies movable toward and away from the first clamping assembly by a pneumatic actuator, each second clamping assembly comprising a substantially planar first segment extending substantially vertically away from the frame; and a second segment pivotably connected to an end of the first segment opposite the frame, the second segment extending to a second segment lip directed toward the first clamping assembly by a pneumatic actuator, the at least one second segment having an axis of rotation that is substantially parallel to a juncture between the second segment lip and the second segment; and wherein the first and second clamping assemblies are independently operable, and capable of manipulating a box or a tray pack containing products. 19. A clamp head for use in palletizing products comprising: a body having a first end and an opposed second end; a first clamping assembly comprising a first portion extending away from the body; and a second portion pivotably connected to the body adjacent the first portion, the first portion disposed between the second portion and the second end, the second portion extending to a second portion lip opposite the body, the second portion lip directed toward the second end and extendable between the first portion and the second end, the second portion having an axis of rotation that is substantially parallel to a juncture between the second portion lip and the second portion; and at least one second clamping assembly movably secured to the body between the first clamping assembly and the second end, the at least one second clamping assembly linearly movable toward and away from the first clamping assembly, the at least one second clamping assembly comprising a first segment extending away from the body; and a second segment pivotably connected to an end of the first segment opposite the body, the second segment extending to a second segment lip directed toward the first clamping assembly, the at least one second segment having an axis of rotation that is substantially parallel to the second segment lip; and wherein the first and second clamping assemblies are independently operable, and capable of manipulating a box, tray pack or spot pack containing products. 20. The clamp head of claim 19 wherein the second portion lip is narrower than the second segment lip. 21. The clamp head of claim 19 further comprising a device extending from the body for manipulating a slip-sheet, wherein at least a portion of the device is retractable. 