Techniques for minimizing contamination by particles that wear off of components that come into and out of contact with each other. The invention involves forming at least one of the components out of a magnetic material so that the particles that wear off of the component are magnetic themselves. Then a magnetic field is used to attract the particles. In one embodiment, the particles are attracted to and collected by a magnet. In this way, the particles are drawn away from any components that might be contaminated. In some embodiments, the magnetic component is also magnetized. In other embodiments, a magnet is placed in contact with the magnetic component. In other embodiments, each of the components that come into contact with each other are formed of a magnetic material.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus comprising: an enclosure configured to enclose a reticle, the enclosure including a seal, the seal comprising: a first component; a second component made of a magnetic material, the first component and the second component configured to be placed into contact with one another; and a magnetic element positioned adjacent to the first component and the second component, the magnetic element configured to generate a magnetic field in the vicinity of the first and the second components so that magnetic particles generated when the first component and the second component are in contact are moved in a direction of high flux density created by the magnetic element. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the first component is made of a magnetic material. 3. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the first component is made of a non-magnetic material. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 3 wherein the non-magnetic material of the fist component is softer than the magnetic material of the second component. 5. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the second component is formed of a softer material than the material that forms the first component. 6. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the second component and the magnetic element are configured as a single magnetic structure. 7. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the second component and the magnetic element are separate magnetic structures separated by a gap. 8. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the second component is formed of a ferromagnetic or a ferrimagnetic material. 9. An apparatus as recited in claim 8 wherein the second component is formed of nickel. 10. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the second component is magnetized such that the second component generates a magnetic field and the magnetic particles are attracted towards the second component. 11. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising: a semiconductor manufacturing device that is positioned proximate to the first and second components, wherein magnetic element prevents the magnetic particles from contaminating the semiconductor manufacturing device. 12. An apparatus as recited in claim 11 wherein the semiconductor manufacturing device is a reticle. 13. An apparatus as recited in claim 11 wherein the semiconductor manufacturing device is positioned on a side of the first and second components that is opposite from the magnetic element, whereby the magnetic particles are attracted away from the semiconductor manufacturing device. 14. An apparatus as recited in claim 11 wherein the semiconductor manufacturing device is used within a semiconductor manufacturing system that uses light in the extreme ultra-violet wavelength range. 15. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the first component forms at least a portion of a top cover and the second component forms at least a portion of a bottom cover, the apparatus further comprising: a reticle used for semiconductor manufacturing, wherein the top and bottom covers are suitable for enclosing the reticle. 16. An apparatus as recited in claim 15 wherein an attractive force between the first component and the second component is less than the weight of each of the reticle, top cover, and the bottom cover such that the top cover can be removed from the bottom cover without restraining the bottom cover, or vice-versa, wherein weight is the product of mass and a gravitational force. 17. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the first component forms a portion of a reticle and the second component forms a portion of a container for containing the reticle. 18. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the first component forms a portion of a reticle and the second component forms a portion of a mechanical arm for supporting and transporting the reticle. 19. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the first component forms a portion of a reticle and the second component forms a portion of an electrostatic chuck. 20. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the first component forms a portion of a reticle and the second component forms a portion of a vacuum chuck. 21. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the first component is a contact area of an extreme ultraviolet reticle. 22. An apparatus as recited in claim 21 wherein the contact area of the extreme ultraviolet reticle is formed of nickel. 23. An apparatus as recited in claim 11 wherein the first component forms a portion of a gate and the second component forms a portion of a frame, wherein the gate and the frame come into and out of contact with each other upon opening and closing of the gate. 24. A method for minimizing contamination comprising: enclosing a reticle within an enclosure, the enclosure including a seal that is comprised of a first and a second component wherein the second component is magnetic; placing the first component into contact with the second component wherein magnetic particles are generated; positioning a magnetic element adjacent to the first component and the second component, the magnetic element configured to generate a magnetic field in the vicinity of the first and second components so that the magnetic particles are moved in a direction of high flux density created by the magnetic element. 25. A method as recited in claim 24 further comprising: separating the first component and the second component from each other. 26. A method as recited in claim 24 further comprising: positioning the magnetic element in contact with the second component such that the second component becomes part of a magnetic circuit, whereby the magnetic particles from the second component are attracted to the second component. 27. A method as recited in claim 24 wherein the first component is made of a magnetic material. 28. A method as recited in claim 24 wherein the second component is formed of a softer material than the material that forms the first component. 29. A method as recited in claim 24 wherein the second component is formed of a ferromagnetic or a ferrimagnetic material. 30. A method as recited in claim 29 wherein the second component is formed of nickel. 31. A method as recited in claim 24 further comprising: providing a semiconductor manufacturing device that is positioned proximate to the first and second components, wherein the magnetic particles can contaminate the semiconductor manufacturing device. 32. A method as recited in claim 31 further comprising: positioning the semiconductor manufacturing device on a side of the first and second components that is opposite from the magnetic element, whereby the magnetic particles are attracted away from the semiconductor manufacturing device. 33. A method as recited in claim 24 wherein the first component forms a portion of a reticle and the second component forms a portion of a mechanical arm for supporting and transporting the reticle. 34. A method as recited in claim 24 wherein at least one of the first component or the second component is a semiconductor manufacturing device. 35. A lithography system comprising: an illumination source; an optical system; a reticle; an enclosure that encloses the reticle, the enclosure having a seal, the seal comprising: a first component; a second component made of magnetic material, the first and the second components configured to be placed into contact with one another; and a magnetic element positioned adjacent to the first and second components, the magnetic element configured to generate a magnetic field in the vicinity of the first and the second components so that magnetic particles generated when the first component and the second component are in contact are moved in a direction of high flux density created by the magnetic element. 36. A system as recited in claim 35 wherein the magnetic element is placed in contact with the second component such that the second component becomes part of a magnetic circuit, whereby the magnetic particles are attracted to the second component. 37. A system as recited in claim 35 wherein the second component is formed of a softer material than the material that forms the first component. 38. A system as recited in claim 35 wherein the reticle is positioned on a side of the first and second components that is opposite from the magnetic element, whereby the magnetic particles are attracted away from the reticle. 