A sensor package comprising a micro-electromechanical (MEMS) motion sensor, an analog-to-digital converter coupled to the MEMS motion sensor, and a wireless transceiver coupled to the analog-to-digital converter, wherein the sensor package can wirelessly communicate with one or more wireless receivers and, if present, with one or more other sensor packages. A process comprising attaching one or more sensor packages to one or more vehicles or devices (mobile or stationary), each sensor package comprising a micro-electromechanical (MEMS) motion sensor, an analog-to-digital converter coupled to the MEMS motion sensor, and a wireless transceiver coupled to the MEMS motion sensor; sensing the motion of the one or more vehicles or devices to which each sensor package is attached; and transmitting motion data from the sensor package to a wireless receiver or to another sensor package.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An automated material handling system in automated manufacturing that optimizes manufacturing throughput by orchestrating and optimizing various components of the system, comprising: one or more wireless receivers; one or more computers coupled to the one or more wireless receivers; two or more sensor packages, each sensing motion parameters of various components of the system, comprising: a micro-electromechanical (MEMS) motion sensor, an analog-to-digital converter coupled to the MEMS motion sensor, a wireless transceiver coupled to the MEMS motion sensor, wherein each sensor package communicates with one or more wireless receivers and, when in proximity, with one or more other sensor packages, a memory coupled to the MEMS sensor and to the wireless transceiver, wherein the memory stores received data until the sensor package comes within range of the wireless receiver or another sensor package, and a clock to time-stamp data generated by the MEMS motion sensor; and one or more wireless transceivers, wherein each of the one or more wireless transceivers can communicate with the one or more sensor packages, with the one or more wireless receivers, and with one or more other wireless transceivers. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensor packages include one or more sensor packages attached to moving vehicles. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensor packages include one or more sensor packages attached to stationary devices. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the MEMS motion sensor is an accelerometer. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein each sensor package further comprises a controller to manage and control all the sensing and communication activities within the sensor package. 