The item-carrying system comprises: a robot comprising: a gripping portion for gripping an item; external force detecting means for detecting an external force applied to the gripping portion; opening-degree detecting means for detecting an opening-degree of the gripping portion; autonomous movement means; and receiving/passing motion deciding means for deciding a motion of the robot in an item receiving/passing operation, wherein the receiving/passing motion deciding means comprises: means for determining to start receiving an item that causes the gripping portion to start a receiving motion if the external force detecting means has detected an external force not less than a first predetermined value, when the gripping portion is not gripping an item; and means for determining the completion of a receiving motion on the basis of at least one of an external force and an opening-degree during the receiving motion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An item-carrying system comprising: a robot comprising: a gripping portion for gripping an item, wherein the gripping portion is configured to open and close; external force detecting means for detecting an external force applied to the gripping portion; opening-degree detecting means for detecting an opening-degree of the gripping portion; autonomous movement means; and receiving/passing motion deciding means for deciding a motion of the robot in the item receiving/passing operation, the system receiving/passing the item with the gripping portion, wherein the receiving/passing motion deciding means comprises: means for determining to start receiving the item that causes the gripping portion to start a receiving motion if the external force detecting means has detected an external force not less than a first predetermined value, when the gripping portion is not gripping the item; and means for determining the completion of a receiving motion that determines the completion of an item-receiving motion on the basis of at least one of an external force detected by the external force detecting means and an opening-degree detected by the opening-degree detecting means, during the receiving motion. 2. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the means for determining the completion of a receiving motion determines that the receiving motion has completed if the external force is not more than a second predetermined value. 3. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the means for determining the completion of a receiving motion determines that the receiving motion has completed if the opening degree is not more than a third predetermined value. 4. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the receiving/passing motion deciding means causes the gripping portion to generate a gripping force if the means for determining the completion of a receiving motion has determined that the receiving motion has completed. 5. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the system further comprises means for determining success/failure in gripping the item after the receiving/passing motion deciding means caused the gripping portion to generate a gripping force. 6. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the means for determining success/failure in gripping the item determines the success/failure of the gripping motion if the opening degree is not more than a fourth predetermined value. 7. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the receiving/passing motion deciding means reperforms the receiving motion if the means for determining success/failure in gripping the item has determined that the gripping motion is failed. 8. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the robot comprises a pair of gripping portions for gripping the item. 9. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the means for determining success/failure in gripping the item determines success/failure of the gripping motion on the basis of an external force generated from the item when the pair of gripping portions are moved closer to or apart from each other. 10. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the means for determining success/failure in gripping the item determines the gripping motion as success or failure, if the external force is not less than or less than a fifth predetermined value, respectively, the external force being generated from the item when the pair of gripping portions are moved closer to or apart from each other and detected by the external force detecting means. 11. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the gripping portion comprises: a palm portion; a first finger attached to the palm portion via a first joint; and a second finger attached to the palm portion via a second joint, the gripping portion gripping the item with the first and the second fingers, and wherein the opening-degree detecting means comprises: first finger angle detecting means for detecting a first finger angle between the palm and the first finger; and second finger angle detecting means for detecting a second finger angle between the palm and the second finger; and calculating means for calculating the opening-degree from the first and second figure angles. 12. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the external force detecting means can detect a horizontally directed external force, and wherein the receiving/passing motion deciding means uses a horizontally directed external force applied to the gripping portion as an external force from the item. 13. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the external force detecting means is a six-axis force sensor. 14. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system further comprises: human-position specifying means for specifying the position of a human; and receiving/passing position deciding means for deciding, on the basis of the specified human-position, the position for the robot to receive/pass the item from/to the human, and then moving the robot to the receiving/passing position. 15. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system further comprises: body-height specifying means for specifying the body-height of the human; and receiving/passing height deciding means for deciding, on the basis of the specified human-body height, the height for the robot to receive/pass the item from/to the human, and then moving the gripping portion to the receiving/passing height. 16. An item-carrying system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system comprises human-specifying means for specifying the human to whom to pass the item, on the basis of a task instruction signal. 