A bead dispensing system is provided for delivering small amounts of substances onto substrates. The system can include, for example, a movable support structure having an array of spaced-apart projections depending from its lower side. An attraction source, such as a vacuum, magnetic, and/or electrostatic force, is operable at each projection end region to attract and retain one bead. The projection array can be aligned with an array of bead-receiving regions of a substrate, e.g., an array of spaced-apart wells of a micro-plate or card. In one embodiment, a plurality of reagent-carrying beads are picked up, retained at respective projection end regions, and moved to a location over a multi-well plate. The beads are then released in a fashion permitting each bead to land in a respective well. The system of the invention is particularly useful for fabricating arrays of reagents.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A fluid distribution system, comprising: a fluid distributor comprising a first side, a second side, and a plurality of conduits disposed in fixed, spaced relation, each conduit extending from the first side to the second side, each conduit comprising (i) an inner diameter of less than 1 mm, (ii) a first end located at the first side and defining a first opening, the first opening being sized such that when the first opening is placed in contact with a fluid sample, capillary action draws the fluid sample into the conduit; and (iii) a second end located at the second side and defining a second opening, the diameter of each of the first openings is smaller than the diameter of each of the second openings, wherein, the first openings define a first two-dimensional array of openings haying a first center-to-center pitch in two dimensions and the second openings define a second two-dimensional array of openings having a second center-to-center pitch in two dimensions, wherein the first center-to-center pitch is smaller than the second center-to-center pitch, and the diameter of the conduit gradually increases from the first opening to the second opening; a vessel for holding a fluid sample, wherein said vessel comprises sidewalls configured to align the first two-dimensional array of openings with the vessel, and at least one of the first openings is adapted for fluid communication with at least one of the second openings of said plurality of conduits, whereby said fluid sample can be transferred from said vessel into said plurality of conduits; and a plurality of wells, each having an open end and each holding at least two oligonucleotides therein; wherein, collectively, the open ends of the wells define an array alignable with the second two-dimensional array of openings. 2. The fluid distribution system of claim 1, wherein each conduit comprises a sidewall that is hydrophilic. 3. The fluid distribution system of claim 1, wherein the at least two oligonucleotides in each well, comprise components for real time fluorescence-based measurements of nucleic acid amplification products. 4. The fluid distribution system of claim 1, wherein the at least two oligonucleotides in each well, are carried by beads. 5. The fluid distribution system of claim 1, wherein each of said wells further comprises a closed end. 6. The fluid distribution system of claim 1, wherein the fluid distributor further comprises a channel that extends around the first array of openings, and the sidewalls of the vessel are configured to register with the channel. 7. The fluid distribution system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of wells are disposed in an array of wells in a multi-well plate, the second side of the fluid distributor comprises a peripheral wall that extends around the second array of openings, and the second array of openings is alignable with the ray of wells. 