East Asia's unique musical instruments and traditions have sadly been increasingly loosing favor to Western music and musical instruments. This invention intends to help reverse this trend by melding cutting-edge Western-music technologies with the noble innovations, timbre, playing techniques, and performance environments of East Asian musical instruments and traditions. East Asian stringed instruments may be fitted with separate pickups for each string for amplification, music synthesizer interfacing, separate string electronic pitch shifting, exotic signal processing, etc. Additional devices and structures, such as strain gauges, electronic strumming pads, miniature keyboards, harp, bass, or sympathetic strings, percussion impact sensors, and electronic music control switches, sliders, and buttons may be included. Video cameras may be attached to an instrument, and may be used as an instrument itself in conjunction with hand gestures. Any of the above may be used to control lighting effects as well as sound electronics. Examples include the Japanese Koto, Chinese Sheng, Vietnamese Koto, Chinese Pipa, Japanese Biwa, and other similar instruments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stringed instrument comprising: an elongated instrument body; a plurality of strings coupled to said instrument body, wherein each string of said plurality of strings is under tension and spans a distance over said instrument body; a plurality of bridges, wherein each bridge of said plurality of bridges is associated with a separate string of said plurality of strings, and wherein each bridge of said plurality of bridges is slideably adjustable over a substantial portion of said span over said instrument body; a plurality of vibration-sensing transducers, wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers is associated with a separate string of said plurality of strings, and wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers generates a distinct electrical transducer signal responsive to vibrations of said associated separate string; and an interface adapted to provide transducer signals generated by said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers to a multi-channel processing system. 2. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said multi-channel processing system comprises a plurality of signal processors, wherein each processor of said plurality of signal processors generate a processed output signal in response to electrical transducer signals generated by at least one of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers. 3. The instrument according to claim 2, wherein at least one of said signal processors provides a pitch shifting operation. 4. The instrument according to claim 2, said instrument further comprising: a mixer for mixing processed output signals generated by said plurality of signal processors to generate at least one outgoing mixed audio signal. 5. The instrument according to claim 4, wherein said at least one outgoing mixed audio signal is further processed by a signal processor. 6. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said multi-channel processing system comprises a plurality of signal processors, wherein each processor of said plurality of signal processors is associated with a separate transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers, and wherein each processor of said plurality of signal processors generate a processed output signal in response to electrical transducer signals generated by said associated separate transducer. 7. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said multi-channel processing system comprises a mixer, said mixer generating at least one outgoing mixed audio signal in response to transducer signals generated by said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers. 8. The instrument according to claim 7, wherein said at least one outgoing mixed audio signal is further processed by a signal processor. 9. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said multi-channel processing system includes a signal processor, wherein said signal processor generates an outgoing control signal in response to transducer signals generated by at least one of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers. 10. The instrument according to claim 9, wherein said outgoing control signal comprises signals of MIDI format. 11. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein at least one string of said plurality of strings is operatively coupled to an electrical sensor that is adapted to measure tension of said at least one string, and wherein said electrical sensor produces a string tension signal corresponding to said tension of said at least one string. 12. The instrument according to claim 11, said instrument further comprising: a signal processor adapted to receive said string tension signal, wherein said signal processor generates a control signal based upon said string tension signal, and wherein said control signal is adapted to control an electronic music system. 13. The instrument according to claim 11, said instrument further comprising: a signal processor adapted to receive said string tension signal, wherein said signal processor generates a control signal based upon said string tension signal, and wherein said control signal is adapted to control an external lighting system. 14. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said multi-channel processing system includes a signal processor, wherein said signal processor generates an outgoing control signal in response to transducer signals generated by at least one of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers, wherein said outgoing control signal is adapted to control an external lighting system. 15. The instrument according to claim 1, said instrument further comprises: at least one strumpad coupled with said instrument body, wherein said at least one strumpad generates control signals in response to user contact, and wherein said control signals are provided to a musical synthesizer which generates audio in response to said user contact with said at least one strumpad. 16. The instrument according to claim 1, said instrument further comprising: at least one miniature keyboard coupled with said instrument body, wherein said at least one miniature keyboard generates control signals in response to user operation, and wherein said control signals are provided to a musical synthesizer which generates audio in response to said user operation with said at least one miniature keyboard. 17. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said instrument further comprises a video camera coupled to said instrument body and producing an outgoing video signal. 18. The instrument according to claim 17, said instrument further comprising: an image processor adapted to process said outgoing video signal to create at least one derived video control signal, wherein said derived video control signal is adapted to control an electronic music system. 19. The instrument according to claim 1, said instrument further comprising: a plurality of harp strings coupled to said instrument body, wherein each string of said plurality of harp strings is under tension and spans a distance over said instrument body. 20. The instrument according to claim 1, said instrument further comprising: a plurality of bass strings coupled to said instrument body, wherein each string of said plurality of bass strings is under tension and spans a distance over said instrument body. 21. The instrument according to claim 1, said instrument further comprising: a plurality of sympathetic strings coupled to said instrument body, wherein each string of said plurality of sympathetic strings is under tension and spans a distance over said instrument body. 22. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said instrument further comprises at least one percussion impact sensor coupled to said instrument body. 23. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said instrument further comprises at least one user operable control switch coupled to said instrument body. 24. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said instrument further comprises at least one control slider coupled to said instrument body. 25. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said instrument further comprises at least one control button coupled to said instrument body. 26. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said instrument is configured as a Japanese Koto. 27. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said instrument is configured as a Chinese Sheng. 28. The instrument according to claim 1, wherein said instrument is configured as a Vietnamese Koto. 29. A stringed instrument comprising: an instrument body; a plurality of strings coupled to said instrument body, wherein each string of said plurality of strings is under tension and spans a distance over said instrument body, and wherein each string of said plurality of strings comprise a plurality of individual fibers; a plurality of vibration-sensing transducers, wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers is associated with a separate string of said plurality of strings, and wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers generates a distinct electrical transducer signal responsive to vibrations of said associated separate; and an interface adapted to provide transducer signals generated by said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers to a multi-channel processing system; wherein at least one string of said plurality of strings is operatively coupled to an electrical sensor that is adapted to measure tension of said at least one string, and wherein said electrical sensor produces a string tension signal corresponding to said tension of said at least one string; and said instrument further comprising: a signal processor adapted to receive said string tension signal, wherein said signal processor generates a control signal based upon said string tension signal, and wherein said control signal is adapted to control an external lighting system. 30. A stringed instrument comprising: an instrument body; a plurality of strings coupled to said instrument body, wherein each string of said plurality of strings is under tension and spans a distance over said instrument body, and wherein each string of said plurality of strings comprise a plurality of individual fibers; a plurality of vibration-sensing transducers, wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers is associated with a separate string of said plurality of strings, and wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers generates a distinct electrical transducer signal responsive to vibrations of said associated separate string; an interface adapted to provide transducer signals generated by said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers to a multi-channel processing system; and wherein said multi-channel processing system includes a signal processor, wherein said signal processor generates an outgoing control signal in response to transducer signals generated by at least one of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers, wherein said outgoing control signal is adapted to control an external lighting system. 31. A stringed instrument comprising: an instrument body; a plurality of strings coupled to said instrument body, wherein each string of said plurality of strings is under tension and spans a distance over said instrument body, and wherein each string of said plurality of strings comprise a plurality of individual fibers; a plurality of vibration-sensing transducers, wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers is associated with a separate string of said plurality of strings, and wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers generates a distinct electrical transducer signal responsive to vibrations of said associated separate string; an interface adapted to provide transducer signals generated by said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers to a multi-channel processing system; a video camera coupled to said instrument body and producing an outgoing video signal; and an image processor adapted to process said outgoing video signal to create at least one derived video control signal, wherein said derived video control signal is adapted to control an electronic music system. 