Interactive, computer based orthodontist treatment planning, appliance design and appliance manufacturing is described. A scanner is described which acquires images of the dentition which are converted to three-dimensional frames of data. The data from the several frames are registered to each other to provide a complete three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition. Individual tooth objects are obtained from the virtual model. A computer-interactive software program provides for treatment planning, diagnosis and appliance from the virtual tooth models. A desired occlusion for the patient is obtained from the treatment planning software. The virtual model of the desired occlusion and the virtual model of the original dentition provide a base of information for custom manufacture of an orthodontic appliance. A variety of possible appliance and appliance manufacturing systems are contemplated, including customized archwires and customized devices for placement of off-the shelf brackets on the archwires, and removable orthodontic appliances.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An orthodontic appliance manufacturing system, comprising: a machine readable memory storing digital data representing a three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition of a patient in malocclusion and three-dimensional digital information representing virtual orthodontic brackets and locations of said virtual orthodontic brackets placed on said three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition in malocclusion; and a forming device forming a bracket placement tray; wherein said bracket placement tray is formed for a plurality of teeth of said patient based on said digital data; said bracket placement tray formed with spaces for holding real orthodontic brackets thereby enabling bonding of said real orthodontic brackets to the teeth at desired locations; wherein said memory further stores data obtained by scanning the dentition of said patient after bonding of said real orthodontic brackets is complete, and wherein said memory further stores instructions to verify positions of said real orthodontic brackets on the dentition. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said forming device comprises an SLA device, a laser sintering device, a milling device, or a 3-D printing device. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said bracket placement tray is made from a plastic sheet. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising equipment for manufacturing a customized bracket bonding pad based on placement of said virtual orthodontic brackets on a surface of said three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition of said patient. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said bracket placement tray and said real orthodontic brackets are shipped to an orthodontic clinic. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition is obtained by in vivo scanning of the patient's dentition. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition is obtained by scanning a physical model of the patient's dentition. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said real orthodontic brackets are off-the-shelf orthodontic brackets. 9. A method for indirect bonding orthodontic brackets on a patient's teeth, comprising the steps of: a) obtaining a virtual model comprising the dentition of a patient in a current stage and placement locations of virtual orthodontic brackets on the dentition in said current stage, including type and dimensions of said virtual orthodontic brackets; b) forming a bracket placement tray; wherein said bracket placement tray is formed for a plurality of real teeth of said patient based on said virtual model; said bracket placement tray formed with spaces for placement of real orthodontic brackets thereby enabling bonding of said real orthodontic brackets to said real teeth at desired locations; c) bonding said real orthodontic brackets on said patient's real teeth using said bracket placement tray; d) scanning the dentition of said patient after bonding of said real orthodontic brackets is complete; e) verifying positions of said real orthodontic brackets on said patient's real teeth. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein step b) comprises forming said bracket placement tray using an SLA device, a laser sintering device, a milling device, or a 3-D printing device. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein said bracket placement tray is made from a plastic sheet. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein said virtual model dentition is obtained by in vivo scanning of the patient's dentition. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein said virtual model dentition is obtained by scanning a physical model of the patient's dentition. 