A power system for a vehicle drivetrain including a cylinder, first and second pistons, and a pressure source. The cylinder defines a central bore, a first inlet adjacent a first end, and a second inlet adjacent a second end. The pistons are coaxially disposed within the central bore, and each includes a leading end, a trailing end, and a piston body. The leading end is movably sealed within the central bore. The trailing end extends from the cylinder for coupling to the drivetrain. The piston body defines an outer diameter that is at least 75% of a diameter of the central bore. The pressure source is in fluid communication with the inlets. Forced flow of working fluid into the first inlet and release of working fluid from the second inlet effectuates movement of the pistons, and vice-versa. Reciprocating movement of the pistons provides power to the drivetrain.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A power system for a vehicle drivetrain comprising: a cylinder defining a central bore extending between first and second open ends, the cylinder forming a first inlet adjacent the first open end and a second inlet adjacent the second open end; first and second pistons coaxially disposed within the central bore, each of the pistons including: a leading end terminating at a head that is movably sealed within the central bore, a trailing end extending from the corresponding open end of the cylinder and adapted for coupling to the vehicle drivetrain, a piston body extending between the leading and trailing ends and defining an outer diameter, wherein the outer diameter of the piston body is at least 75% of a diameter of the central bore; and a common pressure source in fluid communication with each of the first and second inlets; wherein forced flow of working fluid into the first inlet in conjunction with release of working fluid from the second inlet effectuates movement of the pistons in a first direction, and forced flow of working fluid into the second inlet and release of working fluid from the first inlet effectuates movement of the pistons in an opposite, second direction. 2. The power system of claim 1, wherein the outer diameter of the central body is at least 90% of the diameter of the central bore. 3. The power system of claim 1, further comprising: a first sealing member sealing the first piston within the cylinder; and a second sealing member sealing the second piston within the cylinder; wherein the first and second sealing members are adjacent one another. 4. The power system of claim 1, wherein the piston body of each of the pistons is a hollow tube. 5. The power system of claim 1, wherein the cylinder is assembled to a frame of a vehicle. 6. The power system of claim 1, further comprising: a second cylinder; and third and fourth pistons coaxially disposed within the second cylinder, at least one of the pistons coupled to the vehicle drivetrain; wherein the second cylinder is fluidly connected to the common pressure source. 7. The power system of claim 1, further comprising: a first canister containing a first working fluid, the first canister being fluidly connected to the first inlet and the common pressure source. 8. The power system of claim 7, wherein the common pressure source contains a driving fluid under pressure and in fluidly sealed communication with the first canister, the driving fluid being different from the first working fluid, and further wherein the driving fluid exerts a force onto the first working fluid within the first canister to pressurize the first working fluid relative to the first inlet. 9. The power system of claim 8, wherein the driving fluid is a gas and the first working fluid is a hydraulic liquid. 10. The power system of claim 8, further comprising a fluid circuit fluidly connecting the first canister and the first inlet. 11. The power system of claim 10, wherein the first canister forms a pressure source inlet fluidly connected to the common pressure source and through which the driving fluid flows, an outlet and a refill inlet, the outlet and the refill inlet establishing a flow path for the first working fluid via the fluid circuit, and further wherein the fluid circuit includes means for delivering the first working fluid to the first inlet via the outlet and means for returning the first working fluid to the first canister via the refill inlet. 12. The power system of claim 11, wherein the means for delivering includes a one-way valve that prevents fluid flow into the first canister via the outlet. 13. The power system of claim 11, wherein the means for returning includes a reservoir selectively fluidly connected to the first inlet and a pump fluidly connected between the reservoir and the refill inlet. 14. The power system of claim 11, wherein the pump is an electrically powered pump. 15. The power system of claim 11, wherein the pump is adapted to be powered by a source selected from the group consisting of a braking system of the vehicle, rotational movement of one or more wheels of the vehicle, and lateral movement of one or more wheels of the vehicle. 16. The power system of claim 7, wherein the first canister is fluidly connected to the second inlet such that the first working fluid serves as the working fluid for both of the first and second pistons. 17. The power system of claim 7, further comprising: a second canister containing a second working fluid, the second canister being fluidly connected to the second inlet and the common pressure source such that a pressure generated at the common pressure source acts upon the second working fluid within the second canister. 18. A vehicle comprising: a frame; wheels rotatably associated with the frame; a power system maintained by the frame, the power system comprising: a cylinder defining a central bore extending between first and second open ends, the cylinder forming a first inlet adjacent the first open end and a second inlet adjacent the second open end, first and second pistons coaxially disposed within the central bore, each of the pistons including: a leading end terminating at a head that is movably sealed within the central bore, a trailing end extending from the corresponding open end of the cylinder and adapted for coupling to the vehicle drivetrain, a piston body extending between the leading and trailing ends and defining an outer diameter, wherein the outer diameter of the piston body is at least 75% of a diameter of the central bore, and a common pressure source in fluid communication with each of the first and second inlets, wherein forced flow of working fluid into the first inlet in conjunction with release of working fluid from the second inlet effectuates movement of the pistons in a first direction, and forced flow of working fluid into the second inlet and release of working fluid from the first inlet effectuates movement of the pistons in an opposite, second direction; and a drivetrain coupling the power system to at least one of the wheels such that operation of the power system causes forced rotation of at least one of the wheels. 19. The vehicle of claim 18, further comprising: a canister containing the working fluid and fluidly connected to the common pressure source and the first inlet such that pressure generated at the common pressure source acts upon the working fluid with the canister; valving means for selectively permitting flow of the working fluid from the canister; and actuation means coupled to the valving means for controlling operation of the valving means, the actuation means including a user-operated foot pedal. 