A method of deactivating land mines buried in ground comprises projecting high-pressure water jets into ground, cutting through ground with the high-pressure water jets, and making at least one cut through a land mine or cutting through at least one land mine that had been under the ground, the cutting of the land mine reducing the performance of the land mine. The method may reduce the performance of the land mine by rendering the land mine inactive to normal detonation procedures for the land mine. To reach as many surface areas on the buried landmines, it is preferable that at least two high-pressure water jets are spaced apart are used to cut through the ground. The method may be practiced with the high-pressure water jet being carried on a vehicle and cutting is done in a line that is formed at least in part by movement of the vehicle over the ground while the high-pressure water jet is cutting ground. An apparatus for the reduction in effectiveness of land mines buried in ground may comprise a self-contained push-cart unit or a unit attached or attachable to a vehicle. A complete system could comprise a vehicle having a source of liquid, a high-pressure pump to move the liquid under high pressure, a nozzle directing a liquid jet path for the liquid, a support for the nozzle, abrasive delivery system, and nozzle being controllable to direct the liquid towards the ground while the nozzle is fixed relative to the vehicle.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method of exposing and deactivating land mines that are covered by material including ground and vegetation comprising projecting high-pressure water jets into two distinct directions at various times in performance of the method, a first direction comprising at the ground material to remove at least some of the material and to expose a land mine, and cutting through at least one land mine that had been covered, the cutting of the land mine reducing the performance of the land mine, and the second direction being at vegetation that is at least in part above ground to provide a cutting action against the vegetation, the cutting action comprising swiveling a waterjet head in two directions to cut through vegetation. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein reducing the performance of the land mine consists essentially of rendering the land mine inactive to normal detonation procedures for the land mine. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein there are at least two swiveling waterjet heads aimed in the second direction so that the waterjets from the at least two swiveling waterjet heads do not intersect each other. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein during swiveling of the at least two waterjet heads, one waterjet head directs a waterjet stream at an angle that is elevated by at least 30 degrees above an angle of projection of a waterjet from another of the at least two waterjet heads. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein at least two high-pressure water jets directed in the first direction that are spaced apart are used to cut through the ground. 6. A method of exposing and deactivating land mines that are covered by material comprising ground by projecting high-pressure water jets from waterjet heads comprising orthogonally gyroscopically stabilized waterjets heads wherein waterjets are directed into two distinct directions at various times in performance of the method, a first direction comprising at the ground material from gyroscopically stabilized waterjet heads to remove at least some of the material and to expose a land mine, and cutting through at least one land mine that had been covered, the cutting of the land mine reducing the performance of the land mine, and the second direction being at vegetation that is at least in part above ground to provide a cutting action against the vegetation, the cutting action comprising swiveling a waterjet head in two directions to cut through vegetation. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the high-pressure water jet has a pressure of at least 10,000 pounds per square inch. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the high-pressure water jet has a pressure of at least 10,000 pounds per square inch. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein at least five nozzles with waterjet heads are provided that each direct high pressure water jets towards the ground material. 10. An apparatus for the reduction in effectiveness of land mines buried in ground comprising a vehicle having a source of liquid, a high-pressure pump to move the liquid under high pressure, a nozzle directing a liquid jet path for the liquid, a support for the nozzle and nozzle being directable to direct the liquid towards the ground while the nozzle is fixed relative to the vehicle, the nozzle having at least two gyroscopes stabilizing the nozzle against vibration wherein at least two gyroscopically stabilized nozzles are provided on the vehicle so that they direct the liquid towards the ground while the at least two nozzles are fixed relative to the vehicle. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the at least two nozzles can be fixed at a distance of less than one meter from the ground while they provide high-pressure water jet has a pressure of at least 10,000 pounds per square inch. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the pump is able to provide a pressure of at least 10,000 pounds per square inch in each water jet with waterjet streams from each nozzle not vibrating more than 0.5 cm out of alignment at a distance of 10 cm from an emission point from the nozzle. 13. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein there at least two nozzles are attached to a support on a front end of the vehicle and the at least two nozzles are able to rotate while retaining a forward-projecting orientation from the vehicle to be able to cut vegetation above ground in front of the vehicle. 14. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein extensibility of the nozzles from the vehicle is effected at least in part by water carrying tubes that bend with respect to each other. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein at least some water carrying tubes have an internal flow path for the water that is hexagonal in cross-section. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the tubes bend with respect to each other through rotary actuators. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the nozzles are extensible from the vehicle at least in part by telescoping tubes carrying water. 18. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the apparatus comprises a remote controlled movable carrier, an intake for high pressure liquid, an adjustable carrying arm that carries high pressure water, a water emitting tip, the carrying arm carrying high pressure water to the water emitting tip, and a viewing system to enable remote observation at a cutting site. 19. A method of cutting through surfaces while minimizing a risk of igniting flammable materials comprising directing the movement of the apparatus of claim 16 with the high pressure waterjet into position near a target having a surface to be cut, aiming the high pressure water jet at the surface by remote control, and projecting high-pressure water jets into the surface with the high pressure liquid to cut the surface. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein there at least two nozzles not directed vertically towards the ground that are attached to a support on a front end of the vehicle and the at least two nozzles rotate while retaining a forward-projecting orientation from the vehicle to cut vegetation above ground in front of the vehicle. 