A direct drive robotic manipulator is provided which includes a plurality of segments that are rotatably coupled with respect to one another. A plurality of spindles connects the segments for relative rotation therebetween, and a plurality of direct drive assemblies is further coupled to the plurality of spindles. Each direct drive assembly encloses an end of a spindle and comprises a rotor assembly to which the spindle is attached for manipulating the spindle. A positional measurement apparatus may also be included at each direct drive assembly to ascertain an angular disposition of a segment relative to an adjoining segment.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A direct drive robotic manipulator comprising: a stationary support surface; a base segment fixedly mounted on the stationary support surface; a first segment having a first end and a second end opposite the first end of the first segment; a first spindle rotatably coupling the first end of the first segment to the base segment; a second segment having a first end and a second end opposite the first end of the second segment; a second spindle rotatably coupling the first end of the second segment to the second end of the first segment; a third segment having a first end; a third spindle rotatably coupling the first end of the third segment to the second end of the second segment; and a plurality of direct drive assemblies including a first direct drive assembly positioned in the base segment to drive the first spindle, a second direct drive assembly positioned in the first segment to drive the second spindle and a third direct drive assembly positioned in the second segment to drive the third spindle, each direct drive assembly encloses an end of a spindle and comprises comprising a rotor assembly having permanent magnets mounted on a respective spindle to be driven, and a stator assembly having a coil bracket surrounding the rotor assembly and enclosing one end of the respective spindle. 2. The direct drive robotic manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the stator assembly is configured to coaxially receive the rotor assembly. 3. The direct drive robotic manipulator according to claim 1, wherein each direct drive assembly further includes a positional measurement apparatus that is operative to ascertain an angular disposition of one segment relative to an adjoining segment. 4. The direct drive robotic manipulator according to claim 3, wherein the positional measurement apparatus comprises a rotary optical encoder or a magnetic encoder. 5. The direct drive robotic manipulator according to claim 4, wherein the rotary optical encoder comprises an encoder scale having an annular track disposed around a surface concentric with a longitudinal axis of the respective spindles and the rotary optical encoder comprises an encoder head disposed to read the encoder scale. 6. The direct drive robotic manipulator according to claim 1, wherein an end of the respective spindle opposite to said one end enclosed by the stator assembly is fixedly connected to an adjoining segment. 7. The direct drive robotic manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the first, second and third spindles have axes of rotation that are substantially parallel. 8. The direct drive robotic manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the third segment is mounted with a wafer holder or a pick-and-place tool. 9. The direct drive robotic manipulator according to claim 1, wherein each direct drive assembly is housed within a casing for each segment. 10. The direct drive robotic manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the first, second and third segments are linked to one another in an ascending step configuration. 11. The direct drive robotic manipulator according to claim 1, wherein each spindle includes a hollow center that is configured for containing electrical or service lines. 12. The direct drive robotic manipulator according to claim 1, further comprising an end stopper disposed on each spindle for arresting turning motion of the each spindle at its limits of motion. 13. The direct drive robotic manipulator according to claim 1, further comprising cross-roller bearings interfaced between each segment and a spindle connected to it for supporting the connected spindle during rotation. 