Equipment front end module (EFEM) systems and methods for handling workpieces at EFEMs are disclosed. An equipment front end module (EFEM) system has an enclosure and a robot within the enclosure. The enclosure has two or more load ports, each being adapted to receive a front opening unified pod (FOUP). The robot is configured to move work pieces between the FOUP(s) and one or more work piece processing tools proximate the enclosure. The load ports are positioned relative to said robot such that said robot can move the work pieces between the tool and a FOUP at each load port with a simple R-theta motion or pure linear motion with respect to two axes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An equipment front end module (EFEM) system, comprising: an enclosure having two or more load ports located outside the enclosure, wherein each load port is adapted to receive a front opening unified pod (FOUP) from an automated materials handling system (AMHS), wherein each of said load ports includes a loading mechanism located outside the enclosure adjacent a wall of the enclosure, wherein the loading mechanism is configured to rotate a FOUP received from the automated materials handling system (AMHS), such that a front opening of the FOUP lines up with an opening in the wall of the enclosure, wherein said two or more load ports include first and second load ports that are arranged in a configuration other than a side-by-side configuration, and wherein a storage location is located at a corner of the enclosure between two of the load ports; a robot within the enclosure, wherein the robot is configured to move work pieces between the FOUP(s) and one or more work piece processing tools proximate the enclosure; wherein said load ports are positioned relative to said robot such that said robot can move the work pieces between said one or more work piece processing tools and a FOUP at each load port with R-theta motion or linear motion with respect to two axes while the FOUP remains outside the enclosure. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said AMHS includes an overhead track (OHT) or automated guided vehicle (AGV), wherein said load ports are located directly under said overhead track or directly underneath a path of said AGV. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein at least one of said load ports is not located directly under said overhead track or AGV, but still being positioned such that said robot can move wafers or other work pieces to and from a FOUP(s) with an R-theta motion, said at least one load port(s) receiving FOUP(s) other than by said overhead track or AGV. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said load ports include two load ports located for access by R-theta motion of said robot and wherein said two load ports are positioned such that said AMHS can deliver said FOUPs to and retrieve said FOUPs from said two load ports. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said load ports include three load ports located for access by R-theta motion of said robot and wherein said three load ports are positioned such that said AMHS can deliver said FOUPs to and retrieve said FOUPs from said three load ports. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein said first and second load ports are adjacent corresponding openings in first and second wall sections of said enclosure, wherein said first and second wall sections are aligned non-parallel to each other. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein said first and second wall sections are aligned perpendicular to each other. 8. The system of the claim 1, further comprising at least one transfer mechanism proximate one or more of the load ports, wherein the transfer mechanism is configured to receive a FOUP from an automated material handling system at the storage location and move the FOUP to one or more of the one or more of the load ports, and/or wherein the transfer mechanism is configured to receive a FOUP from one or more of the one or more load ports and move the FOUP to the storage location. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the transfer mechanism is adapted to move the FOUP by horizontal translation. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein the transfer mechanism is adapted to move the FOUP by vertical translation. 11. The system of claim 8 wherein the transfer mechanism is adapted to move the FOUP by rotational motion. 12. The system of claim 8 wherein the transfer mechanism is adapted to substantially simultaneously swap a first FOUP and second FOUP between the storage location and one of the load ports. 13. The system of the claim 8 wherein at least one of the load ports is disposed between two storage locations. 14. The system of claim 1 wherein said first and second load ports are adjacent corresponding openings in first and second wall sections of said EFEM, wherein first and second wall sections are located on opposite sides of said robot such that said two load ports are aligned facing each other. 15. The system of claim 1 wherein said two or more load ports include three load ports located for access by R-theta motion access of said robot. 16. The system of claim 1 wherein said two or more load ports include four load ports located for access by R-theta motion access of said robot. 17. The system of claim 1 wherein said two or more load ports include five load ports located for access by R-theta motion access of said robot. 18. The system of claim 1 further comprising at least one transfer mechanism proximate one or more of the load ports, wherein the transfer mechanism is configured to receive a FOUP from an automated material handling system at a storage location and move the FOUP to one or more of the one or more of the load ports, and/or wherein the transfer mechanism is configured to receive a FOUP from one or more of the one or more load ports and move the FOUP to the storage location. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the enclosure includes a mini-environment, wherein the robot is located within the mini-environment. 20. The system of claim 1, further comprising a pre-aligner disposed proximate the robot. 21. A method for handling work pieces at an equipment front end module (EFEM), comprising the steps of: receiving a front opening unified pod (FOUP) from an automated materials handling system (AMHS) at any of two or more load ports of the EFEM located outside an enclosure of the EFEM, wherein said two or more load ports include first and second load ports that are arranged in a configuration other than a side-by-side configuration, and wherein a storage location is located at a corner of the enclosure between the first and second load ports, wherein receiving the FOUP at the EFEM includes delivering the FOUP with an overhead track or automated guided vehicle and rotating the FOUP using a loading mechanism included in one of the load ports to align the FOUP with an opening of the EFEM; and moving the work piece in R-theta motion between the FOUP and a work piece processing tool, while the FOUP remains outside the enclosure. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising the step of collecting the FOUP from the EFEM. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein collecting the FOUP includes rotating the FOUP to align it with an automated material handling system. 24. The method of claim 21 wherein receiving the FOUP at the EFEM includes receiving the FOUP at any of two or more load ports of the EFEM, wherein moving the work piece includes moving the work piece in an R-theta motion relative to a fixed axis of rotation, wherein the axis of rotation is fixed with respect to the two or more load ports. 25. An apparatus for handling work pieces at an equipment front end module (EFEM), comprising: means for receiving a front opening unified pod (FOUP) from an automated materials handling system (AMHS) at any of two or more load ports of the EFEM located outside an enclosure of the EFEM, wherein said two or more load ports include first and second load ports that are arranged in a configuration other than a side-by-side configuration, and wherein a storage location is located at a corner of the enclosure between two of the load ports; FOUP rotating means included in one or more load ports located outside an enclosure of the EFEM for rotating the FOUP to align the FOUP with an opening in the EFEM and to rotate the FOUP to align the FOUP with an automated material handling system; and means for moving the work piece in R-theta motion between the FOUP and a work piece processing tool while the FOUP remains outside the enclosure. 