A robot system and method for the repair and/or inspection of cast surfaces in an automated comprising a robotic manipulator of at least 4 degrees of freedom and a gripping mechanism which allows taking a repair device from a tool holder rack located at one of its sides and moving it through a defined path to a repair and inspection area, where a repair process will be carried out in a sequential and programmed way to a number of cast faces to be defined. Additionally, the system allows carrying out an inspection process of the surfaces in a sequential and programmed way through the use of a vision system by taking from a tool holder rack or carrying an advanced vision system for the inspection of surfaces.
Claims I claim: 1. A robot system for the repair and/or inspection of cast surfaces in metal smelting processes comprising an anthropomorphous robotic arm of at least 4 degrees of freedom, a control, communication and programming unit, a gripper adapter, a pneumatic gripper, a pneumatic gripper driving system, a electric supply system, a repair system, an advanced vision system for the inspection of surfaces and a tool holder wherein said pneumatic gripper allows in a sequential and programmed way said anthropomorphous robotic arm to take, manipulate and release a repair device and/or an advanced vision system for the inspection of surfaces from a tool holder rack in such a way that said device and/or vision system moves through a defined path to said cast surface, wherein said anthropomorphous robotic arm moves said device and/or vision system through a defined path to the cast surface, so as to facilitate repair and inspection process of surfaces in different paths within the work volume of the robot system, and wherein said anthropomorphous robotic arm includes an electrical system driven by three-stage induction motors, with vectorial and/or scalar control. 2. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said gripper takes, manipulates and releases a repair device and/or a system of vision advanced inspection of surfaces to carry out the repair and inspection of surfaces in different paths within the work volume of the robot system. 3. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said anthropomorphous robotic arm has the capability to take, manipulate and release a repair device and/or a system of vision advanced inspection of surfaces and move said device and/or inspection system in different paths within the work volume of the robotic system. 4. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said pneumatic gripper in a sequential and programmed way to takes, manipulates and releases a repair device and/or system of vision advanced inspection of surfaces moves said device and/or inspection system in different paths within the work volume of the robotic system. 5. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein the anthropomorphous robotic arm could communicates by itself or through a program logic controller interface within said control unit. 6. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein the anthropomorphous robotic arm includes the capability to obtain and interpret the information from installed analogue and/or digital sensors. 7. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein the anthropomorphous robotic arm includes the capability to generate analogue and/or digital signals to control analogue and/or digital input devices. 8. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said anthropomorphous robotic arm of is mounted on a fixed and/or mobile system. 9. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein productivity and efficiency of the repair and inspection of cast surfaces increases. 10. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said robot system could be used for carrying out repair and inspection of surfaces either selectively or collectively. 11. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said robot system includes the capability to move and manipulate different tools in different paths within the work volume of said robot system. 12. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said robot system may operate automatically or semi-automatically and also allows solutions scalability. 13. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said robot system limits allows the final user of the technology to carry out the repair and inspection either selectively, independently, separately or in aggregate. 14. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said robot system limits the final user of the technology to one or two of the repair and/or inspection activities of cast surfaces, either selectively or in aggregate. 15. A robotic method for the repair and/or inspection of cast surfaces in metal smelting processes using the robot system of claim 1 wherein said pneumatic gripper allows in a sequential and programmed way said anthropomorphous robotic arm to take, manipulate and release a repair device and/or an advanced vision system for the inspection of surfaces from a tool holder rack in such a way that said device and/or vision system moves through a defined path to said cast surface, and wherein said anthropomorphous robotic arm moves said device and/or vision system through a defined path to the cast surface, so as to facilitate repair and inspection process of surfaces in different paths within the work volume of the robot system. 