A robotic vehicle having a body with an internal volume. A plurality of extendable legs project outwardly from the body for supporting the body on a surface and for propelling the body, in at least a partial rolling motion, over the surface. A gimbal system is supported within the body. The gimbal system has a support platform that is moveable within at least two non-parallel planes. An actuator is supported on the support platform and is positionable by the gimbal system into different positions to actuate selected ones of the extendable legs, to thus assist in propelling the vehicle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for forming a robotic vehicle comprising: forming a body defining a volume therewithin; arranging a plurality of extendable legs to project from said body for supporting said body on a surface and for propelling said body, in at least a partial rolling motion, over said surface; supporting a support platform within said body for movement within at least two different non-parallel planes; and using an actuator mounted on said support platform to selectively engage said extendable legs to cause said extendable legs to be extended, to assist in causing a generally rolling motion of said body. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said extendable legs are sequentially actuated one at a time. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein supporting a support platform within said body for movement within at least two different non-parallel planes comprises using a gimbal system to support said support platform to enable movement of said support platform within more than two non-parallel planes. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein arranging a plurality of extendable legs to project from said body comprises arranging a plurality of extendable legs to project from said body such that a coaxial center line of each said extendable leg extends through a geometric center of said body. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein forming a body comprises forming a body shaped as a sphere. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein forming a body comprises forming a body shaped as a polyhedron. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein arranging a plurality of extendable legs comprises arranging a plurality of extendable legs that each have a biasing element associated therewith for maintaining each said extendable leg in a normally retracted orientation. 