A method and apparatus of a positioning system are described to position an upper-half of a body relative to a head-end of a couch. The positioning system may be a patient positioning system and may include a treatment couch, a leg rest coupled to the treatment couch, and a drive mechanism coupled to the leg rest. The patient positioning system may also include a treatment couch, having a base portion of a treatment couch and plurality of detachable portions of the treatment couch. The plurality of detachable portions to adjust a height of the treatment couch to accommodate differing heights of patients.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a couch a leg rest coupled to the couch; and a drive mechanism coupled to the leg rest, the drive mechanism to move the leg rest in a translational direction to adjust an upper-half of a body with respect to a head-end of the couch, wherein the drive mechanism is a motorized drive mechanism, and wherein the motorized drive mechanism comprises a rack and pinion gear, comprising: a motor coupled to the couch; a pinion; a drive shaft coupled to the motor and the pinion; and a rack having a plurality of teeth coupled to the leg rest, the motor to drive the pinion along the plurality of teeth, the motor to move the leg rest in a translational direction relative to a head-end of the couch. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the motorized drive mechanism is positioned at a centerline of the couch. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 ,wherein the motorized drive mechanism is positioned at an off-center line, the off-center line having an offset distance from a centerline of the couch. 4. An apparatus, comprising: a couch a leg rest coupled to the couch; and a drive mechanism coupled to the leg rest, the drive mechanism to move the leg rest in a translational direction to adjust an upper-half of a body with respect to a head-end of the couch, wherein the drive mechanism is a motorized drive mechanism, and wherein the motorized drive mechanism comprises a single ball screw drive system coupled to the leg rest and the couch, the single ball screw drive system to move the leg rest in a translational direction relative to a head-end of the couch, wherein the single ball screw system comprises: a motor; a ball screw coupled to the motor; and a car operatively coupled to the ball screw and the leg rest, the motor to move the leg rest in a translational direction relative to a head-end of the couch. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the single ball screw is a telescopic ball screw. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the motorized drive mechanism is positioned at a centerline of the couch. 7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the motorized drive mechanism is positioned at an off-center line, the off-center line having an offset distance from a centerline of the couch. 8. An apparatus, comprising: a couch a leg rest coupled to the couch; and a drive mechanism coupled to the leg rest, the drive mechanism to move the leg rest in a translational direction to adjust an upper-half of a body with respect to a head-end of the couch, wherein the drive mechanism is a motorized drive mechanism, and wherein the motorized drive mechanism comprises a dual ball screw drive system coupled to the leg rest, the dual ball screw drive system to move the leg rest in a translational direction relative to a head-end of the couch, wherein the dual ball screw drive system comprises: a motor coupled to the couch; a first ball screw coupled to the motor; a first car operatively coupled to the first ball screw and the leg rest; a second ball screw coupled to the motor; and a second car operatively coupled to the second ball screw and the leg rest, the motor to move the leg rest in a translational direction relative to a head-end of the couch. 9. A system, comprising: a radiation treatment system comprising a radiation source; and a patient positioning system to position a patient with respect to the radiation source of the radiation treatment system, the patient positioning system comprising: a treatment couch; a leg rest coupled to the treatment couch; and a drive mechanism coupled to the leg rest, the drive mechanism to move the entire leg rest in a translational direction to adjust an upper-half of a body of a patient with respect to a head-end of the treatment couch. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the patient positioning system comprises a controller, the controller to move the treatment couch along one or more degrees of freedom, and to adjust the upper-half of the body relative to the head-end of the treatment couch as an additional degree of freedom. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein the radiation treatment system is at least one of a gantry-based radiation treatment system or a robot-based linear accelerator system. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the patient positioning system is a robot-based patient positioning system, the robot-based patient positioning system comprising: the treatment couch; and a robotic arm coupled to the treatment couch, the robotic arm to move the treatment couch along one or more degrees of freedom. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the robotic arm positions the treatment couch in at least three degrees of freedom. 14. The system of claim 12, wherein the robotic arm positions the treatment couch in five degrees of freedom. 15. The system of claim 9, further comprising means for increasing an available workspace of a radiation source of a radiation treatment system. 16. The system of claim 9, further comprising means for positioning a head of the patient to a treating position on the treatment couch regardless of a height of the patient. 17. The system of claim 9, wherein the leg rest of the treatment couch further comprises one pivot point, the pivot point to facilitate a tilting motion of the leg rest. 18. The system of claim 9, wherein the leg rest of the treatment couch further comprises multiple pivot points, the multiple pivot points to facilitate multiple tilting motion of the leg rest. 19. The system of claim 9, wherein the leg rest of the treatment couch further comprises multiple pivot points, the multiple pivot points to position the leg rest to be substantially flat with respect to a plane of a top surface of the treatment couch. 20. The system of claim 9, wherein the leg rest is detachable. 21. The system of claim 9, wherein the treatment couch comprises: a base portion; and a plurality of detachable portions of the treatment couch, wherein one detachable portion is coupled to the base portion of the treatment couch, the plurality of detachable portions to adjust a height of the treatment couch to accommodate differing heights of patients. 22. The system of claim 9, wherein the treatment couch comprises: a base portion; and a ratchet portion coupled to the base portion, the ratchet portion to adjust a height of the treatment couch to accommodate differing heights of patients. 23. The system of claim 9, wherein the drive mechanisms comprises at least one of a telescopic ball screw drive system, a single ball screw drive system, a dual ball screw drive system including one motor, a dual ball screw drive system including two motors, a linear actuator, a pneumatic cylinder, or a regular drive screw driven by stepper motor. 24. The system of claim 9, further comprising a sliding member coupled to the leg rest, the sliding member to move in the translational direction with the leg rest, wherein the sliding member prevents the upper-half of the body from being pinched between the leg rest and the treatment couch as the leg rest moves in the translational direction. 25. A method, comprising: moving a treatment couch along one or more degrees of freedom using a robotic arm; and moving an upper-half of a body of a patient relative to a head-end of the treatment couch by moving an entire leg rest coupled to the treatment couch in a translational direction using a mechanical mechanism. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising providing a linear accelerator coupled to a second robotic arm, the second robotic arm to move the linear accelerator with respect to a treatment target of the patient. 27. The method of claim 25, further comprising: providing an imaging system having an imaging field of view; and maintaining the treatment couch substantially outside of the imaging field of view for all supported treatment positions by moving the upper-half of the body relative to the head-end of the treatment couch. 28. The method of claim 25, further comprising: providing a leg rest having a pivot point to be coupled to the treatment couch; and rotating the leg rest about the pivot point. 29. The method of claim 25, further comprising: providing a leg rest having a plurality of pivot points to be coupled to the treatment couch; and rotating the leg rest about the plurality of pivot points. 30. The method of claim 25, further comprising positioning the leg rest to be substantially flat with respect to a plane of a top surface of the treatment couch. 31. The method of claim 25, further comprising detaching the leg rest from the treatment couch. 32. The method of claim 25, wherein the treatment couch comprises a base portion and a plurality of detachable portions, wherein a first detachable portion is coupled to the base portion and wherein mechanically adjusting the upper-half of the body comprises: detaching the first detachable portion from the base portion; and attaching a second detachable portion to the base portion to adjust a height of the treatment couch to accommodate differing heights of patients. 33. The method of claim 25, wherein the treatment couch comprises a base portion and a back-rest portion coupled to the base portion, and wherein mechanically adjusting the upper-half of the body comprises adjusting a height of the back-rest portion of the treatment couch to accommodate differing heights of patients. 