An image based bar-code reading and robotic registration apparatus and method for use in automated tape library systems is disclosed. An imager is positioned on a picker assembly with its own illumination source and appropriate optics to filter out ambient light. The imager connects to a microprocessor in its immediate vicinity. All image acquisition and processing are done by these components. To ensure operation independent of illumination variations, the image processing code developed for this invention automatically adapts to dynamic lighting situations. The tape cartridge cells are used as fiducials to allow tape cartridge registration without fiducial markings. The use of the tape cartridge cells as fiducials maximizes storage capability.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An imaging tape cartridge picker system for use in aligning a tape cartridge picker with cartridges in cells of a tape cartridge magazine, comprising: a picker assembly; an imager disposed on the front of the picker assembly; illumination sources disposed at the front of the picker assembly, the illumination sources configured to selectively provide specular lighting during calibration and diffuse lighting when the imager is reading a bar code; and a processor, coupled to the imager and illumination sources, for processing image data obtained from the imager and for controlling the illumination sources. 2. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 1 further comprising optics selected to filter out ambient light. 3. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 1 wherein the processor performs image processing on the image data to automatically adapt to dynamic lighting situations. 4. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 1 further comprising an external bus interface for coupling the processor to an external communications bus. 5. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 1 wherein the imager further comprises a camera and lens assembly. 6. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 5 wherein the imager further comprises a IR filter coupled to the lens assembly. 7. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 1 wherein the imager further comprises an IR filter. 8. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 1 wherein the illumination source comprises IR LED lighting assemblies. 9. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 8 further comprising LED drivers disposed between the processor and the IR LED lighting assemblies, the LED drivers receiving control signals from the controller and providing drive signals to the IR LED lighting assemblies. 10. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 1 wherein the processor comprises a microcontroller. 11. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 1 wherein the imager receives specular reflection off of the tape cartridge cells during calibration operations to allow tape cartridge registration without fiducial markings. 12. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 1 wherein the imager uses the tape cartridge cells as fiducials to allow tape cartridge registration without fiducial markings. 13. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 12 wherein the use of the tape cartridge cells as fiducials maximizes storage capability. 14. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 1 wherein the imager detects bar codes on the tape cartridges to identify the tape cartridges. 15. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 1 wherein the processor operates in two states to provide tape cartridge position registration and to provide bar code resolution. 16. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 15 wherein the processor outputs the values of bar-codes when the processor is configured to provide bar code resolution. 17. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 15 wherein the processor outputs an offset value of some detected image feature from its nominal location in the x, y plane when the processor is configured to provide tape cartridge position registration. 18. The imaging tape cartridge picker system of claim 1 wherein the processor continuously visually verifies the position of the picker to eliminate the need for time consuming recalibration. 19. A picker system for use in aligning a tape cartridge accessor with cartridges in cells of a tape cartridge magazine, comprising: a picker assembly; imaging means disposed on the picker assembly for gathering image data of an object; illumination means disposed at the picker assembly for illuminating the object, the illumination means configured to selectively provide specular lighting during calibration and diffuse lighting when reading a bar code; and processing means, coupled to the imager and illumination sources, for processing the image data obtained from the imaging means and for controlling the illuminating means. 