A welding nozzle cleaning device includes a rotary hub and a plurality of flexible arms that extend outwardly from the hub. Each arm is formed of flexible resilient material and has an impact head at its distal end, the head being carried by the hub-and-arm assembly through a circular path of travel. As a welding nozzle to be cleaned is moved toward the cleaning device, the nozzle actuates a valve so as to provide pressurized air to the cleaning device, driving the head in the circular path, and to the welding nozzle, to blow dislodged material out of the nozzle. The arm is tubular and is bent so that its distal end defines an exhaust port that extends tangentially relative to the hub axis so that pressurized air passing through arm and out of the exhaust port drives the arms and hub about the hub axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for cleaning deposits of metallic core material from a welding nozzle, comprising: a hub; a drive device for rotating the hub; at least one flexible resilient arm secured to and extending outwardly from the hub; an impact head mounted on the distal end of the arm so that rotation of the hub carries the head through a circular path of travel such that, when a welding nozzle is disposed in the path of travel of the head, the head taps the nozzle to dislodge deposits of core material therefrom; and a source of pressurized air to supply a flow of air through and outwardly from the nozzle to blow dislodged particles of core material away from the nozzle. 2. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein, when impact head taps the nozzle, the arm flexes sufficiently to permit the head to deflect away from the nozzle momentarily and continue about the circular path. 3. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, comprising a plurality of the flexible resilient arms mounted symmetrically around the hub. 4. The apparatus as defined in claim 3, comprising four flexible resilient arms. 5. An apparatus for cleaning deposits of metallic core material from a welding nozzle, comprising: a hub; a drive device for rotating the hub; at least one flexible resilient arm secured to and extending outwardly from the hub; and an impact head mounted on the distal end of the arm so that rotation of the hub carries the head through a circular path of travel such that, when a welding nozzle is disposed in the path of travel of the head, the head taps the nozzle to dislodge deposits of core material therefrom, wherein a distal end portion of the arm extends tangentially relative to an axis of the hub, and wherein the arm is tubular and defines an air passage with an outlet port at the distal end of the arm, and wherein the drive device includes a source for supplying pressurized air to the hub and thereby producing a flow of air through the air passage and out of the outlet port to rotate the hub about its axis. 6. The apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the impact head defines the outlet port for the air passage. 7. The apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the pressurized air from the pressurized air source is also directed through and outwardly from the nozzle to blow dislodged particles of core material away from the nozzle. 8. The apparatus as defined in claim 7, further comprising a pneumatic valve that controls supply of pressurized air from the pressurized air source to the nozzle and to the hub. 9. The apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein the pneumatic valve includes an actuator that is positioned so as to be engaged by the nozzle as the nozzle moves toward the arms so as to open the pneumatic valve and supply pressurized air to the nozzle and to the hub, and to be engaged by the nozzle as the nozzle moves away from the arms so as to close the pneumatic valve and discontinue the supply of pressurized air to the nozzle and hub. 10. The apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein, when impact head taps the nozzle, the arm flexes sufficiently to permit the head to deflect away from the nozzle momentarily and continue about the circular path. 11. The apparatus as defined in claim 5, comprising a plurality of the flexible resilient arms mounted symmetrically around the hub. 12. The apparatus as defined in claim 11, comprising four flexible resilient arms. 13. A method for automatically cleaning deposits of metallic core material from a welding nozzle comprising the steps of: moving an impact head successively in a circular path of travel, automatically moving the nozzle into the path of travel of the impact head so that the impact head taps the nozzle during each pass to dislodge deposits of core material from the nozzle, the impact head being adapted to deflect upon each tap, sufficiently to clear the nozzle, and simultaneously directing pressurized air through and outwardly from the nozzle to blow dislodged particles of core material away from the nozzle. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said step of automatically moving further comprises the step of: actuating a valve with said nozzle so as to supply pressurized air to a cleaning apparatus, which comprises said impact head, and to said nozzle. 15. The method of claim 14, comprising the further step of moving said nozzle so as to actuate the valve and thereby discontinue the supply of pressurized air to said cleaning apparatus and said nozzle. 