An articulated robot capable of reducing dead space while maintaining a wide operating area and simplifying a power transmission system necessary for moving each joint. A plurality of joint arms A1 to A7 are connected via first rotating shafts 15, 15A, and 15B as horizontal rotating shafts and via second rotating shafts 32, 32A, and 32B as inclined rotating shafts alternately. A motor M for driving the rotating shaft and a speed-reducing mechanism are provided for each rotating shaft.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated robot comprising: a plurality of joint arms connected to one another, wherein each of the joint arms is connected to an adjacent joint arm via a rotating shaft, wherein the axis of a second rotating shaft at one end of one of the plurality of joint arms is inclined relative to the axis of a first rotating shaft at the other end of the one of the plurality of the joint arms, wherein each rotating shaft is provided with a motor for driving the rotating shaft and with a speed-reducing mechanism, wherein the plurality of joint arms include a first joint arm having two motors for driving the first and second rotating shafts and a second joint arm with no motor, the first arm having a longer length than the second arm, and wherein the second joint arm is adjacently connected to the first joint arm. 2. The articulated robot according to claim 1, wherein each of the first and second rotating shafts has a hollow part through which a cable or the like necessary for controlling the articulated robot is passed. 3. The articulated robot according to claim 2, wherein at least one joint arm is provided with a brake device independent of the motor, the brake device being disposed in parallel with the motor relative to gears constituting a speed reducing mechanism. 4. The articulated robot according to claim 1, wherein at least one joint arm is provided with a brake device independent of the motor, the brake device being disposed in parallel with the motor relative to gears constituting a speed reducing mechanism. 