A virtual wheel provides a leg pair as a conveyance mechanism for a land vehicle. The virtual wheel propels the vehicle across a surface using a repetitive motion of the legs that contact the ground as would a wheel, due to their geometry. Vehicle embodiments include at least two-, three-, four- and six-wheeled vehicles, both transverse and in-line. Additionally, the invention provides a bipedal walking robot. One embodiment provides a robotic mule--a payload-carrying vehicle. The invention combines the flexible mobility of bipedal vehicles with the stability and functionality of very large-wheeled vehicles. Additionally, a bimodal conveyance mechanism readily converts between walking and rolling modes.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of propelling a vehicle comprising: configuring a land vehicle with a plurality of virtual wheels, each virtual wheel comprising a leg pair configured to simulate a single conventional wheel, wherein each leg of the pair includes a curved foot that engages with the underlying surface as would a wheel; supplying a control signal to a controller on said vehicle, said control signal having embodied therein machine-readable instructions for activating said leg pairs in a coordinated manner; under the control of said controller, applying motive force to the leg pairs through a plurality of actuators to cause a reciprocating, stepping motion from said leg pairs; and propelling said vehicle over said surface through engagement of the feet with the underlying surface; wherein said virtual wheels provide a large effective diameter without producing a high vehicle profile. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of configuring a land vehicle with a plurality of virtual wheels comprises any of the steps of: providing said virtual wheels in any of two-wheeled, three-wheeled, four-wheeled and six-wheeled configurations; mounting at least two of said virtual wheels in transverse pairs on a common axle; mounting at least two of said virtual wheels in a staggered configuration; and mounting at least two of said virtual wheels in an in-line configuration. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of configuring a land vehicle with a plurality of virtual wheels comprises: providing three virtual wheels, wherein each of the legs of a virtual wheel step in a common direction, and wherein a first two of said three virtual wheels are mounted in single plane relative to a centerline of said vehicle and wherein said common direction pivots freely relative to said center line for each of said first two virtual wheels; and wherein a remaining third of said three virtual wheels is offset from said first two and wherein said direction is stationary relative to said center line. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of configuring a land vehicle with a plurality of virtual wheels comprises any of the steps of: providing at least one leg that is jointed at the knee; providing at least one leg having the foot attached to the leg by means of a joint, wherein said foot pivots relative to said leg; providing at least one leg with shock absorbers; providing at least one foot that defines an arc of a circle; providing at least one foot having curved footpads; and providing scimitar feet. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said vehicle comprises any of: a two-wheeled vehicle; a two-wheeled robot; a robotic mule; and a payload-carrying vehicle. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of supplying a control signal comprises: providing a program of machine-readable instructions for control of said vehicle; executing said instructions by means of a processing element; delivering said instructions to said controller; and controlling said vehicle by said controller according to said instructions. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said step of providing a program of machine-readable instructions for control of said vehicle comprises: providing a central pattern generator; generating waveforms that activate the leg pairs in a coordinated manner, wherein said wave forms control lift and swing in individual legs; generating control signals for said actuators, said actuators comprising servomotors associated with said legs, wherein said instructions control parameters that include any of: body swing, ride height, and step length; generating macro commands that carry out standard tasks including: starting, stopping and turning;. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein executing said instructions by means of a processing element comprises: executing said instructions on any of an off-board and an on-board processor; and supplying a control signal to said controller by said processing element, said control signal having embodied therein machine-readable instructions. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein supplying said control signal having embodied therein machine-readable instructions comprises any of: delivering said signal from said processing element to said controller wirelessly; delivering said signal from said processing element to said controller over a wired connection. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein supplying a control signal comprises: manually generating a control signal through a user input device in communication with said controller. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein applying motive force to the leg pairs through a plurality of actuators to cause a reciprocating, stepping motion from said leg pairs comprises: providing a power source; supplying power to said actuators from said power source; applying force to said legs by said actuators under the control of said control signal to produce said stepping motion. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said actuators comprise servomotors, wherein each leg has at least one servomotor associated therewith. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein said actuators comprise an assemblage of cams and gears. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein said motive force is translated to said legs by means of an assembly of joints and hinges. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: maneuvering said vehicle by means of a steering system. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said steering system includes any of: all-wheel steering; articulated steering; counter-rotating transverse-mounted virtual wheels; and a pair of transverse-mounted wheels that are steered together. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising balancing a load. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein balancing a load comprises: altering an effective diameter of at least one virtual wheel; pivoting axles of said vehicle to suit the terrain slope; and shifting said load to maintain balance. 