Systems and methods allowing for the automatic control and scheduling of a staining apparatus for biological samples on slides present within the apparatus. In some embodiments, the actions of a robot coupled to the staining apparatus, which performs some of the staining tasks on the individual slides in accordance with their respective protocols, may be prioritized and scheduled. In some embodiments, the scheduling may result in increasing or maximizing the throughput of slides. In some embodiments, robot scheduling ensures that the individual slides are processed substantially within the tolerances specified by their respective protocols. In some embodiments, the robot scheduler may respond to spontaneous user actions and adaptively schedule or re-schedule robot actions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing slides, comprising: introducing one or more new slides into one of a plurality of stainers; obtaining slide identification information for at least one of the one or more new slides; obtaining a treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides from a centralized database associated with the plurality of stainers using the slide identification information; determining if an adequate quantity of reagents to be used in the treatment protocol sequence is available on the one of the plurality of stainers; and processing at the one of the plurality of stainers the at least one of the one or more new slides according to commands in a command list corresponding to the treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more new slides are introduced into the one of the plurality of stainers concurrent with the processing of any old slides previously presented to the one of the plurality of stainers. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining slide identification information for the at least one of the one or more new slides comprises reading a label containing the encoded slide identification information affixed to the at least one of the one or more new slides. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein obtaining slide identification information includes reading a glyph that contains the encoded slide identification information. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining slide identification information for the at least one of the one or more new slides further comprises reading a radio frequency identification tag associated with the at least one of the one or more new slides. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the centralized database associated with the plurality of stainers may be accessed for other purposes including slide pre-processing, data entry, queries, and report generation concurrent with the processing of any old slides previously presented to the one of the plurality of stainers. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the centralized database is resident on a server concurrently accessed by one or more client devices over a client-server network for slide pre-processing, data entry, and report generation. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein slide pre-processing comprises creating or updating a slide record pertaining to a slide in the centralized database associated with the plurality of stainers and generating labels containing slide identification information for affixment to slides. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the centralized database is resident on a server accessed by clients including the plurality of stainers over a client-server network. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein a current back-up copy of the centralized database is maintained on a separate server. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining a treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides from the centralized database associated with the plurality of stainers using the slide identification information further comprises retrieving a slide record containing the treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides is obtained prior to the commencement of processing of the at least one of the one or more new slides. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the at least one of the one or more new slides according to commands in a command list corresponding to the treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides is performed autonomously by the one of the plurality of stainers. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the at least one of the one or more new slides according to commands in a command list corresponding to the treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides further comprises: creating a list of stainer commands corresponding to individual processing steps in the treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides; and executing commands in the command list in order on the one of the plurality of stainers on the at least one of the one or more new slides. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein executing commands in the command list in order on the one of the plurality of stainers on the at least one of the one or more new slides further comprises: determining if prerequisites for execution of a next command on the command list have been satisfied; taking corrective action if prerequisites for execution of the next command in order on the command list have not been satisfied; and executing the next command when prerequisites for execution of that command have been satisfied. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein executing the next command when prerequisites for execution of that command have been satisfied further comprises: applying a reagent to the at least one of the one or more new slides; and updating at least one database record in the centralized database associated with the plurality of stainers to reflect the completion of execution. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein updating at least one database record in the centralized database associated with the plurality of stainers to reflect the completion of execution further comprises updating at least one database record elected from a group consisting of: a slide log to reflect the actions taken on the at least one of the one or more new slides, a reagent log to reflect the actions taken on a reagent, and a stainer log to reflect the actions taken by the one of the plurality of stainers. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein taking corrective action if prerequisites for execution of the next command in order on the command list have not been satisfied further comprises: alerting an operator about prerequisites for the next command that have not been satisfied; and monitoring unsatisfied prerequisites for the next command for changes in status. 19. A method for processing slides, comprising: introducing one or more new slides into one of a plurality of stainers; obtaining slide identification information for at least one of the one or more new slides; obtaining a treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides from a centralized database associated with the one of the plurality of stainers using the slide identification information; and processing the at least one of the one or more new slides according to commands in a command list corresponding to the treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides, wherein the one or more new slides are introduced into the one of the plurality of stainers concurrent with processing of any old slides previously presented to the one of the plurality of stainers. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein obtaining slide identification information for the at least one of the one or more new slides comprises reading a label containing the encoded slide identification information affixed to the at least one of the one or more new slides. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein obtaining slide identification information includes reading a glyph that contains the encoded slide identification information. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein obtaining slide identification information for the at least one of the one or more new slides further comprises reading a radio frequency identification tag associated with the at least one of the one or more new slides. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein the centralized database associated with the one of the plurality of stainers may be accessed for other purposes including slide pre-processing, data entry, queries, and report generation concurrent with the processing of any old slides previously presented to the one of the plurality of stainers. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the centralized database associated with the one of the plurality of stainers is a database and is resident on a server concurrently accessed by one or more client devices over a client-server network for slide pre-processing, data entry, and report generation. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein slide pre-processing comprises creating or updating a slide record pertaining to a slide in the centralized database associated with the one of the plurality of stainers and generating labels containing slide identification information for affixment to slides. 26. The method of claim 19, wherein the centralized database associated with the one of the plurality of stainers is a database serving the plurality of stainers. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the centralized database is resident on a server accessed by clients including the plurality of stainers over a client- server network. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein a current back-up copy of the centralized database is maintained on a separate server. 29. The method of claim 19, wherein obtaining a treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides from the centralized database associated with the one of the plurality of stainers using the slide identification information further comprises retrieving a slide record containing the treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides. 30. The method of claim 19, wherein the treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides is obtained prior to the commencement of processing of the at least one of the one or more new slides. 31. The method of claim 19, wherein processing the at least one of the one or more new slides according to commands in a command list corresponding to the treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides is performed autonomously by the one of the plurality of stainers. 32. The method of claim 19, wherein processing the at least one of the one or more new slides according to commands in a command list corresponding to the treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides further comprises: creating a list of stainer commands corresponding to individual processing steps in the treatment protocol sequence for the at least one of the one or more new slides; and executing commands in the command list in order on the one of the plurality of stainers on the at least one of the one or more new slides. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein executing commands in the command list in order on the one of the plurality of stainers on the at least one of the one or more new slides further comprises: determining if prerequisites for execution of a next command on the command list have been satisfied; taking corrective action if prerequisites for execution of the next command in order on the command list have not been satisfied; and executing the next command when prerequisites for execution of that command have been satisfied. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein executing the next command when prerequisites for execution of that command have been satisfied further comprises: applying a reagent to the at least one of the one or more new slides; and updating at least one database record in the centralized database associated with the one of the plurality of stainers to reflect the completion of execution. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein updating at least one database record in the centralized database associated with the one of the plurality of stainers to reflect the completion of execution further comprises updating at least one database record elected from a group consisting of: a slide log to reflect the actions taken on the at least one of the one or more new slides, a reagent log to reflect the actions taken on a reagent, and a stainer log to reflect the actions taken by the one of the plurality of stainers. 36. The method of claim 33, wherein determining if the prerequisites for execution of the next command on the command list have been satisfied further comprises: obtaining information on reagents to be used in executing the next command; and determining if an adequate quantity of the reagent is available. 37. The method of claim 33, wherein taking corrective action if prerequisites for execution of the next command in order on the command list have not been satisfied further comprises: alerting an operator about prerequisites for the next command that have not been satisfied; and monitoring unsatisfied prerequisites for the next command for changes in status. 