A robot system and method have been developed which are able to automatically load balls in semi-autogenous grinding mills so as to reduce the time used for maintenance. The robotic system is comprised of a robotic manipulator of at least 5 degrees of freedom, a grip mechanism which allows, in a sequential and programmed way, to take, manipulate and release a ball from a ball holder rack located at one of its sides.
Claims I claim: 1. A robot system for ball loading into semi-autogenous grinding and/or ball mills in ore concentration processes comprising an anthropomorphous robotic arm of at least 5 degrees of freedom, a control, communication and programming unit, a gripper adapter, a pneumatic gripper with fingers, a pneumatic gripper driving system, and an electric supply system and a slide-type ball loading system; said pneumatic gripper allows the sequential and programmed taking, manipulation and release of a grinding ball from a ball holder rack located at one of side of the semi-autogenous grinding mills; said anthropomorphous robotic arm moves said ball through a defined path to said loading system, in which said ball is deposited in the inner part of the semi-autogenous grinding mill; and said anthropomorphous robotic arm includes an electrical system driven by three-stage induction motors with vectorial and/or scalar control. 2. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said robotic arm includes the capability to take, manipulate and release one or more grinding balls from said ball holder rack and to move a ball within the work volume of said robot system. 3. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said robotic arm deposits a ball into said loading system to subsequently be deposited inside the semi-autogenous grinding and/or ball mill. 4. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said anthropomorphous robotic arm communicates alone or through a program logic controller interface with the control system. 5. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said anthropomorphous robotic arm for obtaining and interpreting information from installed analogue and/or digital sensors. 6. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said anthropomorphous robotic arm is capable of generating analogue and/or digital signals to control analogue and/or digital input devices. 7. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said pneumatic gripper takes, manipulates and releases grinding balls from said ball holder rack. 8. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said robotic arm is mounted on a fixed and/or mobile support located between said semi-autogenous grinding mill and said ball holder rack. 9. The robot system according to claim 1, productivity and efficiency of ball loading processes into semi-autogenous grinding mills increase and the equipment operation time decreases. 10. The robot system according to claim 1, the system may operate automatically or semi automatically. 11. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein said robot system is used for ball loading, either individually or in collaboration, in a wide range of other industrial productive processes. 