The invention provides for a wallpaper printer having a cabinet built around a frame, the cabinet configured to receive replaceable ink reservoirs and cartridges of blank wallpaper. The printer also includes pilot guides for guiding the blank wallpaper fed from the cartridges via a media path defined in the cabinet past a pagewidth printhead for printing images onto the blank wallpaper, and a dryer module configured to dry the printed wallpaper. The printer also has a cutter module for cutting the printed wallpaper before the printed wallpaper is fed into a container which stores the wallpaper in a roll.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wallpaper printer comprising: a frame; a cabinet on the frame, the cabinet configured to receive replaceable ink reservoirs and cartridges of blank wallpaper, the cabinet defining a media path; a pagewidth printhead arranged on the frame for printing images on the blank wallpaper; pilot guides for guiding the blank wallpaper fed from the cartridges via the media path past the pagewidth printhead to facilitate printing; a dryer module configured to operatively dry the printed wallpaper; and a cutter module for cuffing the printed wallpaper before the printed wallpaper is fed into a container for storing the wallpaper in a roll, wherein the cutter module includes a frame having end plates, and a pair of entry rollers and a pair of exit rollers serving as a transport mechanism for the wallpaper through the module, the cutter module further includes a slitter gang composed of a plurality of slitters each having a plurality of blades, the slitter gang being located between the end plates. 2. The wallpaper printer of claim 1, wherein the cabinet receives the replaceable ink reservoirs so as to be located above the pagewidth printhead, and the pagewidth printhead further includes a harness having a number of ink supply tubes for carrying different ink colors from the reservoir to the pagewidth printhead. 3. The wallpaper printer of claim 1, further comprising a heated platen positioned in the media path downstream of the pilot guides for heating the blank wallpaper prior to printing. 4. The wallpaper printer of claim 1, wherein the dryer module includes a drying compartment, the drying compartment defining a catenary path through which the wallpaper operatively traverses after printing, whereby additional path length and drying time is provided before the printed wallpaper is fed into the container. 5. The wallpaper printer of claim 1, wherein the dryer includes one or more centrifugal fans to provide a supply of air through a chamber across one or more heating elements. 6. The wallpaper printer of claim 1, further comprising a central guide roller extending between the end plates and beneath the slitter gang, the central guide roller having a succession of circumferential grooves formed along its length, the circumferential grooves corresponding to a position of respective blades formed on each slitter of the slitter gang. 