A method of interpreting cognitive response to a stimulus is disclosed. The method includes collecting baseline neural activity data from a subject absent a stimulus. Neural activity data is collected while the subject is being stimulated through exposure to a stimulus. A unique three-dimensional cognitive engram is then plotted representative of cerebral regions of stimulated neural activity caused by the stimulus. A novel graphical representation is plotted in three dimensions to indicate the brain region response unique to that stimulus.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of interpreting cognitive response comprising: collecting baseline neural activity data that maps a neural activation absent a stimulus onto neuronal structure of a subject brain of a plurality of subjects absent said stimulus; exposing each of said plurality of subjects to said stimulus; collecting stimulated neural activity data that maps a neural activation during said stimulus onto said neuronal structure of the subject brain from each of said plurality of subjects while each of said plurality of subjects is exposed to said stimulus; plotting a unique three-dimensional cognitive engram representative of a common stimulated neural activity caused by said stimulus from said plurality of subjects to a level of voxels; and compiling said cognitive engram in a database containing a plurality of engrams, each of said plurality of engrams associated with a different stimulus for interpreting cognitive response. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said stimulus is sensory. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said stimulus is viewing an image. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said stimulus is a verbal question of recall. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said stimulus is chemical. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said stimulus is drug administration. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising correlating said cognitive engram with a regimen of said drug administration. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said subject is a human. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said baseline data and said stimulated data are collected with a technique selected from the group consisting of: magnetic resonance imaging, functional magnetic resonance imaging, computerized tomography, positron emission tomography, electroencephalogram, magnetic encephalogram, and combinations thereof. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said baseline data and said stimulated data for one of said plurality of subjects are collected as a plurality of tomographic scans compiled as two-dimensional slices. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising performing image noise removal from said stimulated data for one of said plurality of subjects prior to plotting said cognitive engram. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising performing an operation on said stimulated data prior to plotting said cognitive engram, said operation selected from the group consisting of: correcting for subject movement artifact, reprocessing sequential images, blood oxygen level dependency consideration and statistical deformation modeling. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising harvesting subject movement artifact overlap data for one of said plurality of subjects for said stimulated data prior to plotting said cognitive engram. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said baseline data and said stimulated data for one of said plurality of subjects are derived from functional magnetic resonance imaging. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said functional magnetic resonance imaging is correlated with data obtained from a technique selected from the group consisting of: positron emission tomography and computerized tomography. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein said baseline data and said stimulated data for one of said plurality of subjects are derived from arterial spin labeling and dynamic susceptibility weighted contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein said baseline and said stimulated data for one of said plurality of subjects are derived from magnetization transfer and diffusion-tensor magnetic resonance imaging with whole brain tissue histogram analysis. 18. The method of claim 1 further comprising: comparing a test subject neural activity data that maps test subject neural activation onto test subject neuronal brain structure with said plurality of engrams in said database. 19. A method of questioning a subject comprising: (a) exposing a plurality of control subjects to a known truthful question; (b) collecting stimulated neural activity data that maps known truthful neural activation during exposure to the known truthful question onto neuronal structure of a subject brain from each of said plurality of control subjects; (c) plotting a unique truthful question three-dimensional cognitive engram representative of a common truthful neural activity associated with the known truthful question from said plurality of subjects to a level of voxels; (d) exposing said plurality of control subjects to a known falsehood; (d') collecting stimulated neural activity data that maps known truthful neural activation during exposure to the known falsehood onto neuronal structure of a subject brain from each of said plurality of control subjects; (e) plotting a unique known falsehood three-dimensional cognitive engram representative of a common falsehood neural activity of the known falsehood from said plurality of subjects to a level of voxels; (g) exposing said subject to a question of unknown truthfulness; (h) collecting stimulated neural activity data that maps the question of unknown truthfulness neural activation from said subject during exposure to the question of unknown truthfulness; and (i) comparing said unique unknown data that maps the question of unknown truthfulness neural activation as being more closely aligned with one of said truthful question three-dimensional cognitive engram or said known falsehood three-dimensional cognitive engram. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising repeating steps (a)-(i) with said subject in a different state, the state is selected from the group consisting of: physiology, psychological disease state, response to a chemical stimulus, and a level of pain. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the subject's state is response to a chemical stimulus, wherein said chemical stimulus is induced by administration of a drug selected from the group consisting of: interferon, quinolones, neuroleptics, serotonin-active drugs, and alcohol. 