The present invention is a low heat energy input repair system. The system utilizes a V-shaped feedstock that conforms to the shape of grooves in damaged parts. The V-shape of the feedstock conforms closely to the damaged region of various components and reduces the heat input needed to bond the surfaces. The repair system is deployable onsite, at a military depot, industrial manufacturing facility or other location where a mobile repair system would be beneficial. The present system provides onsite, in-situ, low heat input repair of wear, fatigue and corrosion cracks, or impact surface damage of large components. The present invention is particularly useful for components with thin walls and results in low distortion.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A repairing process for repairing a substrate comprising: providing a V-shaped feedstock having a back and opposite inwardly sloped side walls, feeding the V-shaped feedstock into a substrate in need of repair, heating the V-shaped feedstock by directing energy to the back of the feedstock, conducting energy through the feedstock, and fusing the sloped side walls of the feedstock and sloped side walls in a substrate with the conducted energy, further comprising repairing and filling an opening in a substrate by initially preparing sloping side walls of the opening, preparing a plug with sloped side walls for filling the opening, placing the plug in the opening, inserting the V-shaped feedstock between the plug and sloping side walls of the opening, and heating and fusing the side walls of the V-shaped feedstock with the sloped side walls of the plug and the sloping side walls of the opening. 2. A repairing process for repairing a substrate comprising: providing a V-shaped feedstock having a back and opposite inwardly sloped side walls, feeding the V-shaped feedstock into a substrate in need of repair, heating the V-shaped feedstock by directing energy to the back of the feedstock, conducting energy through the feedstock, and fusing the sloped side walls of the feedstock and sloped side walls in a substrate with the conducted energy, further comprising placing a second inverted V-shaped feedstock in the substrate in contact with the first V-shaped feedstock and fusing at least one wall of the second V-shaped feedstock to a wall of the first feedstock. 3. The process of claim 2, wherein the second inverted feedstock has a back in contact with the back of the first feedstock and further comprising applying energy through the sloped side walls of the inverted second V-shaped feedstock and conducting the energy through the second V-shaped feedstock and heating and fusing the contacting backs of the first and second feedstocks. 4. The process of claim 3, further comprising placing a third layer of V-shaped feedstocks with sloped side walls contacting with the sloping walls of the substrate and contacting the sloped walls of the second inverted V-shaped feedstock and directing energy into backs of and through the V-shaped feedstocks in the third layer, heating the contacting side walls of the substrate and of the second and third layer feedstocks and fusing the contacting side walls. 5. The process of claim 4, wherein feedstock is added, heated and fused until the last layer of feedstock fills the surface of the substrate. 6. The process of claim 1, further comprising feeding the V-shaped feedstock with a feedstock feeding and energy directing rotatable head and moving the head toward and away from, forward and back and side-to-side with respect to the substrate and rotating the head with respect to the substrate for aligning the feedstock tangentially with a repair while directing energy perpendicularly to a surface of the feedstock while the feedstock is in contact with the substrate. 7. The process of claim 6, further comprising moving the feeding and energy directing rotatable head with a robotic manipulator. 8. The process of claim 7, further comprising fine adjusting the head with a platform having multiple actuators interposed between the robotic manipulator and the head. 9. A method of repairing large substrates, vehicles or building parts comprising: providing a component with a surface hole, providing a tapered-shaped plug conforming to the surface hole of the substrate, inserting the tapered-shaped plug into the surface hole, and applying heating energy and bonding the tapered-shaped plug in the substrate, wherein the hole and the plug are non-semispherical in shape, further comprising inserting a V-shaped feedstock between the hole and the plug, heating the feedstock and softening and fusing contacting walls of the feedstock, hole and plug wherein no gap filler material is required. 