A laminated wafer sensor structure includes a housing layer having pocket openings formed therein, a circuit layer having a sensor element and electronic components mounted for registration with the pocket openings in the housing layer, and a rigid back layer. The laminated structure is suitable for handling by conventional robotic wafer handling systems. The wafer sensor structure is adapted for electrical connection to a base station that is also adapted for connection to a host computer system to facilitate communication among the sensor structure, the base station and the host computer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer sensor structure comprising: a housing layer having pocket openings formed therethrough; a circuit layer having a sensor element and electronic elements mounted on an upper surface thereof for registration with the pocket openings formed in the housing layer, the upper surface of the circuit layer being bonded to a lower surface of the housing layer; and a rigid back layer having an upper surface that is bonded to a lower surface of the circuit layer. 2. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 1, and wherein the upper surface of the circuit layer is bonded to the lower surface of the housing layer and the upper surface of the back layer is bonded to the lower surface of the circuit layer by a pressure sensitive adhesive. 3. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 1, and wherein the upper surface of the circuit layer is bonded to the lower surface of the housing layer and the upper surface of the back layer is bonded to the lower surface of the circuit layer by a thermal cure film adhesive. 4. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 1, and further comprising: a battery mounted on the upper surface of the circuit layer for registration with a corresponding pocket opening formed in the housing layer. 5. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 4, and further comprising: at least one solar element mounted on the upper surface of the circuit layer for registration with a corresponding pocket opening formed in the housing layer, the at least one solar element being connected to the battery for charging the battery. 6. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 1, and further comprising: a transmitter/receiver mounted on the upper surface of the circuit layer for wireless data communication between the wafer sensor structure and an external element. 7. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 6, and wherein the external element comprises a base station that is adapted for physically receiving the wafer sensor structure. 8. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 1, and wherein the sensor element comprises a pyroelectric wafer. 9. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 8, and wherein the pyroelectric wafer includes a laser exposed surface that has a layer of Palladium about 1 .mu.m thick formed thereon. 10. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 8, and wherein the pyroelectric wafer includes a laser exposed surface that has a layer of Chromium about 0.7 .mu.m thick formed thereon and a layer of Palladium about 0.3 .mu.m thick formed on the layer of Chromium. 11. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 8, and wherein the pyroelectric wafer and the electronic components are connected for measuring laser energy. 12. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 1, and wherein the housing layer comprises a silicon wafer. 13. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 12, and wherein the silicon wafer is about 300 mm diameter. 14. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 1, and wherein the housing layer comprises chemically etched aluminum. 15. A wafer sensor structure as in claim 1, and wherein the sensor element comprises a sensor selected from the group consisting of a thermocouple, a photodiode, a thermopile, a pressure sensor, an accelerometer, a strain gauge and a CMOS camera circuit. 16. A wafer sensor system as in claim 1, and wherein the back layer is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of stainless steel, PEEK and silicon. 17. A wafer sensor system comprising: (a) a wafer sensor structure that includes a housing layer having pocket openings formed therethrough; a circuit layer having a sensor element and electronic elements mounted on an upper surface thereof for registration with the pocket openings formed in the housing layer, the upper surface of the circuit layer being bonded to a lower surface of the housing layer; and a rigid back layer having an upper surface that is bonded to a lower surface of the circuit layer; and (b) a base station adapted for connection to the wafer sensor structure for electrical communication between the wafer sensor structure and the base station. 18. A wafer sensor system as in claim 17, and wherein the base station is further adapted for connection to a host computer system for electrical communication between the host computer system and the base station. 19. A wafer sensor system as in claim 17, and wherein the wafer sensor structure includes a receiver/transmitter for wireless communication between the wafer sensor structure and the base station. 