In one aspect, the invention is directed to polypeptides having an amylase activity, polynucleotides encoding the polypeptides, and methods for making and using these polynucleotides and polypeptides. In one aspect, the polypeptides of the invention can be used as amylases, for example, alpha amylases, to catalyze the hydrolysis of starch into sugars.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide having alpha amylase activity or capable of acting as an antigen to generate an antibody that specifically binds to SEQ ID NO:379 comprising: (i) an amino acid sequence having at least 90% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 379, or enzymatically active fragments thereof, or, (ii) a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid having at least 90% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 378. 2. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide comprising the polypeptide of claim 1 and lacking a signal sequence. 3. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide comprising the polypeptide of claim 1 and having a heterologous signal sequence. 4. A protein preparation comprising the polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the protein preparation comprises a liquid, a solid, or a gel. 5. An immobilized polypeptide, wherein the immobilized polypeptide comprises the polypeptide of claim 1. 6. An away comprising an immobilized polypeptide comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 7. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide having alpha amylase activity comprising: (a) an amino acid sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 379; or enzymatically active fragments thereof, or, (b) the polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 378. 8. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide having alpha amylase activity comprising: (a) an amino acid sequence having at least 98% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 379; or enzymatically active fragments thereof, or, (b) the polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid sequence having at least 98% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 378. 9. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 379. 10. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1, further comprising a tag or an epitope. 11. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 10 wherein the tag comprises a purification tag. 12. A fusion protein heterodimer comprising the polypeptide of claim 1, and a second domain. 13. A fusion protein homodimer comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 14. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the alpha amylase activity comprises hydrolyzing glucosidic bonds under a pH condition from about pH 4.5 to about pH 8. 15. The isolated, synthetic, recombinant polypeptide of claim 14, wherein the alpha amylase activity comprises hydrolyzing glucosidic bonds under a pH conditions comprising condition from about pH 6 to about pH 8. 16. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the alpha amylase activity comprises 1,4-.alpha.-D-glucan glucohydrolase activity. 17. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the alpha amylase activity further comprises hydrolyzing glucosidic bonds in starch to produce maltodextrins. 18. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide retains an alpha amylase activity under conditions comprising a temperature range of about 37.degree. C. to about 90.degree. C. 19. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide retains an alpha amylase activity after exposure to a temperature in the range from greater than 37.degree. C. to about 90.degree. C. 20. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide having alpha amylase activity or capable of acting as an antigen to generate an antibody that specifically binds to SEQ ID NO:379, wherein the polypeptide is encoded by a nucleic acid capable of hybridizing under stringent conditions to a sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 378, wherein the stringent conditions comprise a wash in 0.2.times.SSC at a temperature of about 65.degree. C. for about 15 minutes. 21. A composition comprising the isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1. 22. The composition of claim 21, further comprising a high-maltose or a high-glucose liquid or syrup or a starch. 23. A method for hydrolyzing a starch or other polysaccharide comprising .alpha.-1,4-glucosidic bonds comprising: (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1; (b) providing a composition comprising a starch or other polysaccharide comprising .alpha.-1,4-glucosidic bonds; and (c) contacting the polypeptide of (a) with the composition of (b) under conditions wherein the polypeptide hydrolyzes the starch or other polysaccharide comprising .alpha.-1,4-glucosidic bonds. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the method further comprises adding at least one additional enzyme. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the at least one additional enzyme is a protease, a lipase, a cutinase, another amylase, a carbohydrase, a cellulase, a pectinase, a mannanase, an arabinase, a galactanase, a xylanase, an oxidase, a lactase and/or a peroxidase. 26. A method for liquefying or removing a starch or other polysaccharide comprising .alpha.-1,4-glucosidic bonds from a composition comprising: (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1; (b) providing a composition comprising a starch or other polysaccharide comprising .alpha.-1,4-glucosidic bonds; and (c) contacting the polypeptide of (a) with the composition of (b) under conditions wherein the polypeptide removes or liquefies the starch or other polysaccharide comprising .alpha.-1,4-glucosidic bonds. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the method further comprises adding at least one additional enzyme. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the at least one additional enzyme is a protease, a lipase, a cutinase, another amylase, a carbohydrase, a cellulase, a pectinase, a mannanase, an arabinase, a galactanase, a xylanase, an oxidase, a lactase and/or a peroxidase. 29. A method for hydrolyzing a starch or other polysaccharide in a feed, a feed additive, or a food comprising: (a) obtaining a feed, a feed additive, or a food material comprising a starch or other polysaccharide, wherein the starch or other polysaccharide can be hydrolyzed by the polypeptide of claim 1; and (b) adding the polypeptide of claim 1 to the feed, feed additive or food material in an amount sufficient for a sufficient time period to cause hydrolysis of the starch or other polysaccharide and formation of a treated food, feed additive, or feed, thereby hydrolyzing the starch or other polysaccharide in the food, feed additive, or the feed. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the method further comprises adding at least one additional enzyme. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the at least one additional enzyme is a protease, a lipase, a cutinase, another amylase, a carbohydrase, a cellulase, a pectinase, a mannanase, an arabinase, a galactanase, a xylanase, an oxidase, a lactase and/or a peroxidase. 32. A method for improving the flow of starch-containing production fluids comprising: (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1; (b) providing a production fluid comprising starch; and (c) contacting the polypeptide of (a) and the production fluid of (b) under conditions wherein the polypeptide can hydrolyze the starch in the production fluid, thereby improving its flow by decreasing its density. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the method further comprises adding at least one additional enzyme. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the at least one additional enzyme is a protease, a lipase, a cutinase, another amylase, a carbohydrase, a cellulase, a pectinase, a mannanase, an arabinase, a galactanase, a xylanase, an oxidase, a lactase and/or a peroxidase. 35. A method for brewing comprising: (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1; (b) providing a composition comprising a starch; and (c) combining the polypeptide of (a) with the composition of the (b) under conditions wherein the polypeptide can hydrolyze the starch. 36. The method as set forth in claim 35, wherein the composition comprising a starch is a barley grain, a malt, or a beer. 37. The method of claim 35, wherein the method further comprises adding at least one additional enzyme. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein the at least one additional enzyme is a protease, a lipase, a cutinase, another amylase, a carbohydrase, a cellulase, a pectinase, a mannanase, an arabinase, a galactanase, a xylanase, an oxidase, a lactase and/or a peroxidase. 39. A method for starch to dextrose processing comprising: (a) liquefaction of a composition comprising a starch using the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) saccharification of the liquefied starch into dextrose. 40. A method for starch to fructose processing comprising: the method of claim 39 and further comprising (c) a purification, and (d) an isomerization of the dextrose to fructose. 41. The method of claim 39, wherein the composition comprising a starch comprises a granular starch. 42. The method of claim 39, wherein the method further comprises adding at least one additional enzyme. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein the at least one additional enzyme is a protease, a lipase, a cutinase, another amylase, a carbohydrase, a cellulase, a pectinase, a mannanase, an arabinase, a galactanase, a xylanase, an oxidase, a lactase and/or a peroxidase. 44. A method for cleaving a maltose or a D-glucose unit from non-reducing ends of starch comprising contacting a composition comprising a starch with the polypeptide of claim 1. 45. The method of claim 44, wherein the method further comprises adding at least one additional enzyme. 46. The method of claim 45, wherein the at least one additional enzyme is a protease, a lipase, a cutinase, another amylase, a carbohydrase, a cellulase, a pectinase, a mannanase, an arabinase, a galactanase, a xylanase, an oxidase, a lactase and/or a peroxidase. 47. A method for improving nutritional value, palatability or rheological properties of a feed, a feed additive or a food, or destroying an antinutritive factor in a feed, a feed additive or a food, comprising contacting the feed, feed additive or food with the polypeptide of claim 1 for a sufficient time period to cause hydrolysis of a starch in the feed, feed additive or food. 48. The method of claim 47, wherein the method further comprises adding at least one additional enzyme. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein the at least one additional enzyme is a protease, a lipase, a cutinase, another amylase, a carbohydrase, a cellulase, a pectinase, a mannanase, an arabinase, a galactanase, a xylanase, an oxidase, a lactase and/or a peroxidase. 