An assembly comprises a multilayer nitride stack having nitride etch stop layers formed on top of one another, each of the nitride etch stop layers is formed using a film forming process. A method of making the multilayer nitride stack includes placing a substrate in a single wafer deposition chamber and thermally shocking the substrate momentarily prior to deposition. A first nitride etch stop layer is deposited over the substrate. A second nitride etch stop layer is deposited over the first nitride etch stop layer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making a semiconductor device comprising: providing a substrate; forming a semiconductor device on the substrate; forming a tensile stress inducing layer over the substrate, the tensile stress inducing layer including a nitride stack having multiple nitride layers formed on top of one another, wherein the multiple nitride layers have substantially similar thicknesses, the tensile stress inducing layer introduces tensile stress into a channel region in the substrate, wherein forming the multiple nitride layers comprises a first nitride etch stop layer and a second nitride etch stop layer and wherein forming the tensile stress inducing layer comprises thermally shocking the substrate momentarily prior to depositing the first nitride etch stop layer. 2. A method of claim 1 wherein the semiconductor device has a source region and a drain region and a gate stack formed therein and wherein the tensile stress inducing layer is formed over the source and drain regions and the gate stack. 3. A method of claim 2 further comprising: forming a silicide layer over semiconductor device prior to forming the tensile stress inducing layer over the substrate. 4. A method of claim 2 further comprising: creating contacts to the source region, the drain region, and the gate stack. 5. A method of claim 2 wherein the substrate is one of a silicon comprising substrate, a monocrystalline silicon substrate, a germanium silicon substrate, and silicon on insulator substrate. 6. A method of claim 2 wherein the tensile stress inducing layer introduces a tensile stress ranging between about 150 mega Pascal and about 450 mega Pascal into the substrate. 7. A method of claim 2 wherein the tensile stress inducing layer is formed in a single wafer deposition chamber. 8. A method of claim 2 wherein the tensile stress inducing layer is formed in immediately after the substrate is thermally shocked in a deposition chamber. 9. A method of making a semiconductor device comprising: placing a substrate in a single wafer deposition chamber and thermally shocking the substrate momentarily prior to deposition; and depositing a first nitride etch stop layer over the substrate, the first nitride etch stop layer induces a tensile stress in the substrate, wherein the substrate has a source region and a drain region and a gate stack formed thereon and wherein the first nitride etch stop layer is formed over the source and drain regions and the gate stack, wherein thermally shocking the substrate includes maintaining the substrate at a temperature that is substantially lower than a desired deposition temperature and shocking the substrate with the desired deposition temperature just momentarily prior to the deposition. 10. A method of claim 9 wherein thermally shocking the substrate includes maintaining the substrate at a distance above a heater of the single wafer deposition chamber before the deposition and allowing the substrate to contact the heater just momentarily prior to the deposition, the heater is set to heat the substrate to a desired deposition temperature. 11. A method of claim 9 wherein the substrate has a source region and a drain region and a gate stack formed thereon and wherein the tensile stress inducing layer is formed over the source and drain regions and the gate stack. 12. A method of claim 9 further comprising: forming a silicide layer over the source and drain regions and the gate stack prior to depositing the first nitride etch stop layer. 13. A method of claim 9 further comprising: depositing a second nitride etch stop layer over the first nitride etch stop, the second nitride etch stop layer and the first nitride etch stop forming a nitride stack that induces the tensile stress in the substrate. 14. A method of claim 13 wherein depositing a second nitride etch stop layer further comprising: removing the substrate having the first nitride etch stop layer deposited thereon out of the single wafer deposition chamber; and thermally shocking the substrate momentarily prior to depositing the second nitride etch stop layer. 15. A method of claim 14 wherein thermally shocking the substrate includes maintaining the substrate at a temperature that is substantially lower than a desired deposition temperature and shocking the substrate with the desired deposition temperature just momentarily prior to the deposition. 16. A method of claim 14 wherein thermally shocking the substrate includes maintaining the substrate at a distance above a heater of the single wafer deposition chamber before the deposition and allowing the substrate to contact the heater just momentarily prior to the deposition, the heater is set to heat the substrate to a desired deposition temperature. 17. A method of claim 9 further comprising: forming a silicide layer over the source and drain regions and the gate stack prior to depositing the first nitride etch stop layer. 18. A method of making a semiconductor device comprising: providing a substrate; forming a semiconductor device on the substrate; forming a tensile stress inducing layer over the substrate, the tensile stress inducing layer including a nitride stack having multiple nitride layers formed on top of one another, wherein at least one of the multiple nitride layers has a tensile stress, the tensile stress inducing layer introduces tensile stress into a channel region in the substrate wherein the tensile stress inducing layer is formed immediately after the substrate is thermally shocked in a deposition chamber, providing a gain in tensile stress in at least one of the multiple nitride layers. 19. A method of claim 18 wherein the semiconductor device has a source region and a drain region and a gate stack formed therein and wherein the tensile stress inducing layer is formed over the source and drain regions and the gate stack. 20. A method of claim 18 further comprising: forming a silicide layer over semiconductor device prior to forming the tensile stress inducing layer over the substrate. 21. A method of claim 19 further comprising: creating contacts to the source region, the drain region, and the gate stack. 22. A method of claim 18 wherein the substrate is one of a silicon comprising substrate, a monocrystalline silicon substrate, a germanium silicon substrate, and silicon on insulator substrate. 23. A method of claim 18 wherein the tensile stress inducing layer introduces a tensile stress ranging between about 150 mega Pascal and about 450 mega Pascal into the substrate. 24. A method of claim 18 wherein the tensile stress inducing layer is formed in a single wafer deposition chamber. 25. A method of making a semiconductor device comprising: placing a substrate in a single wafer deposition chamber and thermally shocking the substrate momentarily prior to deposition; and depositing a first nitride etch stop layer over the substrate, the first nitride etch stop layer induces a tensile stress in the substrate, wherein the substrate has a source region and a drain region and a gate stack formed thereon and wherein the first nitride etch stop layer is formed over the source and drain regions and the gate stack, wherein thermally shocking the substrate includes maintaining the substrate at a distance above a heater of the single wafer deposition chamber before the deposition and allowing the substrate to contact the heater just momentarily prior to the deposition, the heater is set to heat the substrate to a desired deposition temperature. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein the substrate has a source region and a drain region and a gate stack formed thereon and wherein the tensile stress inducing layer is formed over the source and drain regions and the gate stack. 27. The method of claim 25 further comprising: forming a silicide layer over the source and drain regions and the gate stack prior to depositing the first nitride etch stop layer. 28. A method of making a semiconductor device comprising: placing a substrate in a single wafer deposition chamber and thermally shocking the substrate momentarily prior to deposition; depositing a first nitride etch stop layer over the substrate, the first nitride etch stop layer induces a tensile stress in the substrate, wherein the substrate has a source region and a drain region and a gate stack formed thereon and wherein the first nitride etch stop layer is formed over the source and drain regions and the gate stack; and depositing a second nitride etch stop layer over the first nitride etch stop, the second nitride etch stop layer and the first nitride etch stop forming a nitride stack that induces the tensile stress in the substrate, wherein depositing the second nitride etch stop layer further comprises: removing the substrate having the first nitride etch stop layer deposited thereon out of the single wafer deposition chamber; and thermally shocking the substrate momentarily prior to depositing the second nitride etch stop layer. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein thermally shocking the substrate includes maintaining the substrate at a temperature that is substantially lower than a desired deposition temperature and shocking the substrate with the desired deposition temperature just momentarily prior to the deposition. 30. The method of claim 28 wherein thermally shocking the substrate includes maintaining the substrate at a distance above a heater of the single wafer deposition chamber before the deposition and allowing the substrate to contact the heater just momentarily prior to the deposition, the heater is set to heat the substrate to a desired deposition temperature. 