A panoramic camera design that is lower cost, robust, stable and more user friendly than prior art designs. The camera design makes use of a unified molded structure of optical material to house a mirror, aligned sensor, and lens assembly. The unified molded structure of the camera keeps the sensed optical path enclosed to minimize dust and user's fingers and maintain optical alignment.
Claims Wherefore, what is claimed is: 1. A camera system comprising: a unified solid block-structured housing entirely made of transparent optical material comprising sensor alignment surfaces for aligning one or more sensors with associated lens elements and reflective surfaces, said sensor alignment surfaces comprising holes cut out of the unified solid block-structured housing for receiving and aligning reflective surfaces and the lens elements, wherein said housing houses: at least two reflective surfaces; a lens associated with each said reflective surface and aligned to capture a reflected image in its associated reflective surface; and a sensor aligned with each said reflective surface and associated lens. 2. The camera system of claim 1 wherein the housing further comprises an alignment surface to align each said associated lens and reflective surface. 3. The camera system of claim 1 wherein the housing further comprises alignment structures to align each said sensor with the associated lens. 4. The camera system of claim 3 wherein the alignment structures are pins. 5. The camera system of claim 1 wherein the housing further comprises a reflective alignment surface for each associated lens to align the reflective surface to capture the reflected image. 6. The camera system of claim 1 wherein each reflective surface is an alignment surface aligned to capture the reflected image. 7. The camera system of claim 1 wherein each reflective surface is back mirrored. 8. The camera system of claim 1 wherein each said lens is tilted upward relative to the horizontal to capture a more usable vertical field of view. 9. The camera system of claim 1 wherein the housing further comprises a prism on its vertical surfaces to capture a more usable vertical field of view. 10. The camera system of claim 1 wherein the housing further comprises a prism on its horizontal surfaces to capture a more usable vertical field of view. 11. The camera system of claim 1 wherein outer surfaces of said housing are curved. 12. The camera system of claim 1 wherein outer surfaces of said housing are planar. 13. A process of capturing video for teleconferencing and meeting recording, comprising the following process actions: capturing images of an event in up to 360 degrees with a camera array, wherein said camera array comprises a unified solid molded structure entirely made of transparent optical material comprising sensor alignment surfaces molded into the unified molded structure for receiving and aligning an N-sided mirror located above N cameras arranged, each having a lens element and a sensor, equally spaced around the circumference of a circle in a circular fashion, and positioned to have a small distance between their virtual centers of projection, each capturing an image reflected in a different side of said N-sided mirror; and stitching together said images captured by each of N cameras using a calibration surface to create a composite image. 14. The process of claim 13 wherein the unified molded structure further comprises alignment surfaces to align said associated lens element of each camera of the camera array and an associated mirror of the N-sided mirror. 15. The process of claim 13 wherein the unified molded structure further comprises alignment structures to align the sensor of each camera with the associated lens element. 16. The process of claim 15 wherein the alignment structures are pins. 17. The process of claim 13 wherein the unified molded structure of optical material further comprises corners and wherein the virtual centers of projection are offset to achieve overlap of the said N cameras horizontal field of view and not image the corners of the housing. 18. The process of claim 13 wherein the N-sided mirror is back mirrored. 19. The process of claim 13 wherein said lens element is tilted upward relative to the horizontal to capture a more usable vertical field of view. 20. The process of claim 19 wherein the unified molded structure further comprises a prism on its vertical surfaces to capture a more usable vertical field of view. 21. The process of claim 13 wherein the unified molded structure further comprises a prism on its horizontal surfaces to capture a more usable vertical field of view. 22. The process of claim 13 wherein each of said N cameras is a video sensor. 23. A camera system comprising: a block-structured solid housing comprising sections entirely made of transparent optical material, comprising sensor alignment surfaces for aligning one or more sensors with associated lens elements and reflective surfaces, said sensor alignment surfaces comprising holes molded into the block-structured solid housing for receiving and aligning reflective surfaces and the lens elements and sensors, wherein said housing houses at least two reflective surfaces; a lens element associated with each said at least two reflective surfaces and aligned to capture a reflected image in its associated reflective surface; and a sensor aligned with each of said at least two reflective surfaces and associated lens elements. 24. The camera system of claim 23 wherein the housing is made of plastic. 25. The camera system of claim 23 wherein the housing is made of glass. 26. The camera system of claim 23 wherein each reflective surface associated with a lens and aligned sensor is configured so that the distance between the virtual center of projection of each reflective surface-lens-sensor set are offset to achieve an overlap between the horizontal field of view of adjacent reflective surface-lens-sensor sets while not imaging the corners of the housing. 27. A camera system comprising: more than one camera comprising: at least two reflective surfaces; a lens element associated with each said at least two reflected surfaces and aligned to capture a reflected image in its associated reflective surface; and a sensor aligned with each of said at least two reflective surfaces and associated lens elements; and a unified solid block structure housing entirely made of transparent optical material encasing each said camera and providing desired optical qualities for capturing images using each said camera, and further comprising sensor alignment surfaces molded into the unified solid block structure housing for receiving and aligning reflective surfaces and the lens elements. 28. The camera system of claim 27 wherein said housing provides the desired optical path. 