A printhead assembly for a wallpaper printing system that includes a casing; a printhead module, the printhead module comprised of a plurality of printhead tiles arranged substantially along the length of the printhead module; a fluid channel member held within the casing adjacent the printhead module, the fluid channel member including a plurality of ducts, fluid within each of the ducts being in fluid communication with each of the printhead tiles; and, each printhead tile including a printhead integrated circuit formed to dispense fluid, a printed circuit board to facilitate communication with a processor controlling the printing, and fluid inlet ports to receive fluid from the fluid channel member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly for a printing system, the printhead assembly comprising: a casing; a printhead module, the printhead module comprised of a plurality of printhead tiles arranged substantially along the length of the printhead module; a fluid channel member held within the casing adjacent the printhead module, the fluid channel member including a plurality of ducts, fluid within each of the ducts being in fluid communication with each of the printhead tiles; and, each printhead tile including a printhead integrated circuit formed to dispense fluid, a printed circuit board to facilitate communication with a processor controlling the printing, and fluid inlet ports to receive fluid from the fluid channel member, wherein the fluid channel member is provided with a female end portion at one distal end and a male end portion complementary to the female portion at the opposite distal end allowing interconnection of fluid channel members, including the plurality of ducts. 2. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the casing houses drive electronics for the printhead. 3. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the casing includes notches to engage tabs on the fluid channel member. 4. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein a printhead tile abuts an adjacent printhead tile. 5. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead tiles are supported by the fluid channel member. 6. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of the printhead tiles has a stepped region. 7. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fluid channel member is provided with at least seven ducts. 8. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fluid channel member is formed by injection moulding. 9. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fluid channel member is formed of a material with a relatively low coefficient of thermal expansion. 10. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the assembly includes power busbars arranged along the length of the assembly. 11. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein more than one fluid channel member can be fixedly associated together in an end to end arrangement. 12. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fluid channel member includes a series of fluid outlet ports arranged along the length of the fluid channel member. 13. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printing system prints a wallpaper pattern on to a media web to produce wallpaper. 14. The printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead tile comprises: a printhead integrated circuit including an array of ink nozzles; a channel layer provided adjacent the printhead integrated circuit, the channel layer provided with a plurality of channel layer slots; an upper layer provided adjacent the channel layer, the upper layer provided with an array of upper layer holes on a first side, and an array of upper layer channels on a second side, at least some of the upper layer holes in fluid communication with at least some of the upper layer channels, and at least some of the upper layer holes aligned with a channel layer slot; a middle layer provided adjacent the upper layer, the middle layer provided with a plurality of middle layer holes, at least some of the middle layer holes aligned with at least some of the upper layer channels; and, a lower layer provided adjacent the middle layer, the lower layer provided with an array of inlet holes on a first side, and an array of lower layer channels on a second side, at least one of the inlet holes in fluid communication with at least one of the lower layer channels, and at least some of the middle layer holes aligned with a lower layer channel; whereby, the inlet holes receive different types or colors of ink, each type or color of ink separately transported to different nozzles of the printhead integrated circuit. 