The present invention provides methods and systems for discretized, combinatorial processing of regions of a substrate such as for the discovery, implementation, optimization, and qualification of new materials, processes, and process sequence integration schemes used in integrated circuit fabrication. A substrate having an array of differentially processed regions thereon is processed by delivering materials to or modifying regions of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of combinatorial processing, comprising: receiving a substrate comprising regions wherein a structure is defined within each of the regions, the structure being one of vias, holes, lines, interconnects, or trenches; and combinatorially processing the regions on the substrate in a site-isolated manner through multiple processing operations, to modify the structures in each of the regions. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: processing the substrate in a conventional manner to complete the structures within the regions. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the conventional processing includes a mask. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: testing an interface between a structure in one of the regions and a layer deposited through one of the combinatorial manner or the conventional manner. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein an exposed portion of the substrate is formed of one of silicon, doped silicon, or a semiconducting material. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate is selected from a group consisting of a patterned wafer, a substrate including multiple dies, a substrate including a device, a substrate including a functional chip, a substrate including a functional device, and a substrate including a test structure. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein modifying the structures comprises cleaning, surface modification, surface preparation, deposition, dispensing, reacting, functionalization, etching, planarization, chemical mechanical planarization, electrochemical mechanical planarization, lithography, patterning, implantation, and irradiation. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein combinatorially processing regions on the substrate includes, varying one of a process sequence or at least two unit processes between the regions. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the process sequence is varied within one of the regions. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the structure includes a dielectric portion disposed between electrically conductive portions. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: delivering a cleaning solution to remove contamination from the dielectric portion. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the dielectric portion comprises a low-k dielectric having pores and wherein modifying the structures comprises sealing the pores. 13. The method of claim 10, further comprising, for each region: disposing a first layer over a top surface of the dielectric portion; disposing a second layer over a top surface of the electrically conductive portions; and disposing a third layer over a top surface of both the first and second layers. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein processing histories for different regions is varied. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising: independently varying a process variable among regions for one of the disposing operations. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the combinatorial processing of the regions is performed independently for each of the regions. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein disposing a first layer over the top surface of the dielectric portion comprises forming a masking layer over the dielectric portion. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein disposing a second layer over the top surface of the electrically conductive portions comprises: electrolessly depositing a barrier layer over the electrically conductive portions. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein disposing a first layer over the top surface of the dielectric portion comprises treating the top surface to improve adhesion of the top surface to the third layer, wherein the third layer comprises an interlayer dielectric material. 20. A method of combinatorial processing, comprising: receiving a substrate having a plurality of regions, the regions having a structure defined by a dielectric portion disposed between electrically conductive portions; and combinatorially processing in a site-isolated manner to modify the structure, wherein processing parameters for modifying the structure is varied between the regions. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising: performing an electroless plating operation after combinatorially processing the structure. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein modifying the surface of the structures comprises forming a sacrificial layer on the structure. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein modifying the surface of the structures comprises improving the adhesion of the surface to a subsequent deposited layer. 24. The method of claim 20, wherein modifying the surface of the structure comprises treating the surface to prevent poisoning of the surface by a subsequent process. 