A special purpose processor (SPP) can use a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) to model a large number of neural elements. The FPGAs or similar programmable device can have multiple cores doing presynaptic, postsynaptic, and plasticity calculations in parallel. Each core can implement multiple neural elements of the neural model.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A special purpose processor which implements a synthetic neural model being a collection of the biological anatomy of selected areas of a human brain, the biological anatomy being the physical properties of neural elements of the anatomy of the brain, the special purpose processor comprising: a) a plurality of cores, each of said cores comprising a separate neural processing unit, each said neural processing unit for processing and performing calculations on data modeling a plurality of the neural elements; b) memory for storing data corresponding to the biological anatomy of the brain, including data representing (i) synaptic weights of synaptic connections of each neural element, (ii) post synaptic potential outputs of each of said neural elements of each said core, and (iii) synaptic connection tables identifying anatomical connections of the neural elements of the synthetic neural model; c) a bus structure for interconnecting said memory with each of said plurality of cores and for connecting each of said plurality of cores with one another; d) a finite state machine controller for controlling said plurality of cores and said memory to communicate over said bus structure, in which said cores are implemented to process the data in parallel and perform calculations on the data, said finite state machine controller being implemented to cause the special purpose processor, over a given respective timeslice, to, (i) read and transfer the data from said memory to said cores, (ii) control said cores to process in parallel the read data, and (iii) return the data processed by said cores to said memory in preparation for processing the data over a succeeding timeslice; and e) an addressing controller, responsive to said finite state machine controller, for addressing said memory and said cores for reading and writing data by said memory and for processing data by said cores in each said given respective timeslice, wherein said addressing controller causes addressed data to be transferred in a predetermined order so that said memory knows which one or more of said cores is a source of the data in a said given respective timeslice. 2. A special purpose processor according to claim 1, wherein each said core 0-n has a neural element 0-n, and said predetermined order comprises, for a plurality of given respective timeslices 0-n, addressing said data in an order (core 0, timeslice 0), (core 1, timeslice 0), (core n-1, timeslice 0) . . . (core n, timeslice n). 3. A special purpose processor according to claim 2, wherein said memory comprises: a) an output storage table for storing post synaptic potential outputs of data; and b) a current weights table for storing synaptic weight data. 4. A special purpose processor according to claim 3, wherein said addressing controller comprises a connection table storing a plurality of pointers as addresses to said output storage table. 5. A special purpose processor according to claim 4, wherein said addressing controller further comprises: a) first means for causing said connection table to output a given pointer to address said output storage table to obtain post synaptic potential output data with respect to a given said core for a given respective timeslice; and b) second means for addressing said current weights table to obtain current weights with respect to said given core during said given respective timeslice. 6. A special purpose processor according to claim 3, wherein said addressing controller further comprises: a) first means for writing post synaptic output data of one given said core to said output storage table; and b) second means for writing updated synaptic weight data of another said given core to said current weights table; and c) wherein said first means and said second means perform the respective writing during a same given timeslice. 