The present invention provides novel cleavage agents for the cleavage and modification of nucleic acid. The cleavage agents find use, for example, for the detection and characterization of nucleic acid sequences and variations in nucleic acid sequences. In some embodiments, an endonuclease activity is used to cleave a target-dependent cleavage structure, thereby indicating the presence of specific nucleic acid sequences or specific variations thereof.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for detecting the presence of a target nucleic acid molecule by detecting non-target cleavage products, comprising: a) providing: a Pfu FEN-1 nuclease comprising amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO:79 with the exception of amino acid position 94, wherein said Pfu FEN-1 comprises a Y33 residue and a mutation in the R94 residue, wherein the mutation in said R94 residue is R94A; a source of target nucleic acid, said target nucleic acid comprising a first region and a second region, said second region downstream of and contiguous to said first region; a first oligonucleotide, wherein a first portion of said first oligonucleotide comprises at least one nucleotide analog and wherein said first portion is completely complementary to said first portion of said first target nucleic acid, and; an aromatic moiety; b) combining said Pfu FEN-1 nuclease, said target nucleic acid, said first oligonucleotide, and said aromatic moiety under reaction conditions to form a cleavage complex, wherein said first portion of said first oligonucleotide is annealed to said first region of said target nucleic acid to form a duplex, wherein said Pfu FEN-1 nuclease recognizes said duplex, and wherein said aromatic moiety interacts with said Y33 residue of said Pfu FEN-1 nuclease, such that cleavage of said complex occurs to generate a non-target cleavage product; and c) detecting the cleavage of said cleavage complex. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said interaction of said aromatic moiety with said Y33 residue of said Pfu FEN-1 nuclease comprises a stacking interaction. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said aromatic moiety is a nucleotide. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said aromatic moiety is a nucleotide analog. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein a second oligonucleotide is provided, said second oligonucleotide comprising a 3' portion and a 5' portion, wherein said 5' portion is completely complementary to said second region of said target nucleic acid. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said 3' portion of said second oligonucleotide comprises said aromatic moiety. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said nucleotide analog in said first oligonucleotide comprises a methylphosphonate nucleotide. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said nucleotide analog in said first oligonucleotide comprises a 2'-O-methyl nucleotide. 