A system, method and apparatus for handling and moving a layer of articles, such as cased products. The system and apparatus comprise a hood enclosure having four side panels, and four interconnected corner member. The side walls and corner members interoperate to form an adjustable enclosure to pick the layer of articles. A vacuum generate is utilized to evacuate air from the hood enclosure to assist in lifting the layer of articles. The hood enclosure may utilize an array of vacuum cups to assist in the lifting of articles into the hood enclosure. The method is directed towards utilizing the hood layer end effector to move and hand articles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for lifting articles, said apparatus comprising: a suction generator; and a hood enclosure comprising: a top member having a top side and a bottom side, a plurality of side walls having a top end and a bottom end, said top end pivotally connected to said top member, said side walls having an interior side and an exterior side, a plurality of corner members having a first panel and a second panel, said corner member slideably connected to side walls adjacent said corner member, and a first ceiling member moveably connected to the bottom side of said top member; wherein said first ceiling member is connected to said top member via a moveable scissors frame and wherein said suction generator is in fluid communication with said hood enclosure. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the suction generator is a high volume, low pressure air pump. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said suction generator is configured to provide evacuation of air from said hood enclosure. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first ceiling member is configured to position on the top of articles to be lifted. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the corner member comprises two panels hinged together. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first ceiling member is adjustable to varying article heights. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a robotic arm connected to said hood enclosure for moving said hood enclosure in any of an x, y, or z axis. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second ceiling member moveably connected to said top member, said second ceiling member movable separate from said first ceiling member. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising an array of suction cups attached to a bottom side of said second ceiling member. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first ceiling member, second ceiling member, or both the first and second ceiling member is also configured to lift slip sheets. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a set of dropped product detectors on the bottom end of at least one of the side walls. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the dropped product detectors comprise light emitting devices on the bottom end of at least one of the side walls, and light beam detectors on the bottom end of at least one of the side walls, such that the light beam detectors detect the transmittance of light beams from the light emitting devices. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising one or more pressure transducers mounted on the hood enclosure to monitor suction level in the hood enclosure for maintenance of a predetermined suction level. 14. An apparatus for lifting articles, said apparatus comprising: a suction generator; and a hood enclosure comprising: a top member having a top side and a bottom side, a plurality of side walls having a top end and a bottom end, said top end pivotally connected to said top member, said side walls having an interior side and an exterior side, a plurality of corner members having a first panel and a second panel, said corner member slideably connected to side walls adjacent said corner member, and a first ceiling member moveably connected to the bottom side of said top member, a second ceiling member moveably connected to said top member, said second ceiling member movable separate from said first ceiling member, a first array of suction cups attached to said first ceiling member, and a second array of suction cups attached to said second ceiling member; wherein said suction generator is in fluid communication with said hood enclosure. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the suction generator is a high volume, low pressure air pump. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said suction generator is configured to provide evacuation of air from said hood enclosure. 17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the first ceiling member is configured to position on the top of articles to be lifted. 18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the first ceiling member is connected to said top member via a moveable scissors frame. 19. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the corner member comprises two panels hinged together. 20. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the first ceiling member is adjustable to varying article heights. 21. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a robotic arm connected to said hood enclosure for moving said hood enclosure in any of an x, y, or z axis. 22. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the first ceiling member is also configured to lift slip sheets. 23. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a set of dropped product detectors on the bottom end of at least one of the side walls. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the dropped product detectors comprise light emitting devices on the bottom end of at least one of the side walls, and light beam detectors on the bottom end of at least one of the side walls, such that the light beam detectors detect the transmittance of light beams from the light emitting devices. 25. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising one or more pressure transducers mounted on the hood enclosure to monitor a suction level in the hood enclosure for maintenance of a predetermined suction level. 26. A method for lifting articles, said method comprising: providing a hood enclosure comprising: a top member having a top side and a bottom side, a plurality of side walls having a top end and a bottom end, said top end pivotally connected to said top member, said side walls having an interior side and an exterior side, a plurality of corner members having a first panel and a second panel, said corner member slideably connected to side walls adjacent said corner member, and a first ceiling member moveably connected to the bottom side of said top member; positioning said hood enclosure around a group of articles to be lifted; clamping the side walls about a perimeter of the group of articles; evacuating air from an interior of the hood enclosure; lifting said articles from a first location to a second location; detecting slip sheets; and moving slip sheets to a third location separate from the first and second location. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising: detecting whether an article has dropped while being lifted, and providing a signal to an operator of an occurrence of a dropped article. 