The invention relates to a robot-controlled recording device comprising a robot with a number of axes of movement which are able to be controlled via a robot controller for moving a robotic hand and a recording system fitted to the robotic hand which is able to be moved by the robot for recording data of an object supported on a support unit. The robot controller is connected to an additional drive and controls this for moving the robotic hand synchronized to the axes of movement such that the additional drive would create a relative rotation and/or translation movement between the recording system and the support unit created by the movement of the robotic hand solely by a movement of the support unit with a stationary robotic hand. The drive is however connected not to the support unit but to an encoder for creating a synchronization signal for the recording.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robot-controlled recording device, comprising: a robot that moves in a plurality of axes of movement, the robot comprising a robot hand; a robot controller that controls a movement of the robot hand; a recording system that is mounted on the robotic hand and moved by the robot for recording data of an object supported on a support unit; a drive that is connected to the robot controller and controlled by the robot controller for synchronizing the movement of the robotic hand with the axes of movement so that a relative movement between the recording system and the support unit is created by a movement of the support unit with the robotic hand in a stationary position; and an encoder that is connected to the drive for creating a synchronization signal to the recording system to record the data of the object. 2. The robot-controlled recording device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot is an articulated-arm robot with at least 6 axes of movement. 3. The robot-controlled recording device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the recording device is an x-ray recording device. 4. The robot-controlled recording device as claimed in claim 3, wherein the recording system comprises a carrier comprising an x-ray source and an x-ray detector lying opposite of the x-ray source. 5. The robot-controlled recording device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the carrier is moved by the robot for recording a plurality of x-ray images of the object from a plurality of different projection directions. 6. The robot-controlled recording device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the carrier has a bracket shape. 7. The robot-controlled recording device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the carrier is rotated by the robot in a plane around an axis that is perpendicular to the plane and perpendicular to a beam axis of an x-ray beam bundle directed from the x-ray source to the x-ray detector. 8. The robot-controlled recording device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the relative movement between the recording system and the support unit is a rotational or translational movement. 9. The robot-controlled recording device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the relative movement between the recording system and the support unit is a simulated movement. 10. A method for recording data of an object supported on a support unit, comprising: mounting a recording system on a robotic hand of a robot having a plurality of axes of movement; synchronizedly moving the robotic hand with the axes of movement so that a relative movement between the recording system and the support unit is created by a movement of the support unit with the robotic hand in a stationary position; and supplying a synchronization signal for the recording system to record the data of the object. 11. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the robot is an articulated-arm robot with at least 6 axes of movement. 12. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the recording system comprises a carrier comprising an x-ray source and an x-ray detector lying opposite of the x-ray source. 13. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the carrier is moved by the robot for recording a plurality of x-ray images of the object from a plurality of different projection directions. 14. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the carrier is rotated by the robot in a plane around an axis that is perpendicular to the plane and perpendicular to a beam axis of an x-ray beam bundle directed from the x-ray source onto the x-ray detector. 15. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the carrier is guided by the robot in recording the x-ray images on a spiral path around the object. 16. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the relative movement between the recording system and the support unit is a rotational or translational movement. 17. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the relative movement between the recording system and the support unit is simulated by a drive. 18. The method as claimed in claim 17, wherein the drive is connected to an encoder that creates the synchronization signal. 