Systems and methods allowing for the automatic control and scheduling of a staining apparatus for biological samples on slides present within the apparatus are provided. In some embodiments, the actions of a robot coupled to the staining apparatus, which performs some of the staining tasks on the individual slides in accordance with their respective protocols, may be prioritized and scheduled. In some embodiments, the scheduling may result in increasing or maximizing the throughput of slides. In some embodiments, robot scheduling ensures that the individual slides are processed substantially within the tolerances specified by their respective protocols. In some embodiments, the robot scheduler may respond to spontaneous user actions and adaptively schedule or re-schedule robot actions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing operations over a network on at least one stainer of a plurality of stainers connected in a LAN, comprising: establishing a network connection with the at least one stainer in the LAN; sending commands to the at least one stainer over the network connection; and receiving responses corresponding to commands sent to the at least one stainer over the network connection, wherein the operations performed over the network on the at least one stainer include running diagnostic tests and retrieving diagnostic information, and the diagnostic information is used to automatically schedule service on the at least one stainer, if the diagnostic information indicates that such service is needed. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein establishing a network connection with the at least one stainer in the LAN includes sending configuration information to the stainer. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is executed on a server with individual stainers in the plurality of stainers as clients. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the server includes a centralized database comprising configuration information for the individual client stainers. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein establishing a network connection with the at least one stainer in the LAN further comprises establishing a network connection with an agent within the LAN, wherein the functions of the agent comprise: relaying commands to, and responses from the at least one stainer; and relaying queries to, and returning responses from a database associated with the plurality of stainers, wherein the database comprises information including status information about stainers, slides, consumables, and treatment protocols associated with the plurality of stainers. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the agent can continue to perform its functions relative to other stainers in the LAN, in case of malfunction of a stainer. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the agent comprises a software tool that also provides a defined interface for an external application through which operations may be performed on the at least one stainer over the network. 8. The method of claim 7, where the agent is capable of interaction with multiple types of database systems. 9. The method of claim 8, where the multiple types of database systems include database systems from different vendors. 10. The method of claim 7, where the external application is a laboratory information system. 11. The method of claim 7, where the external application is a web browser. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the operations performed over the network on the at least one stainer include performing one or more of software and firmware updates. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the operations performed over the network on the at least one stainer include obtaining information on stainer consumable usage. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the information on stainer consumable usage includes reagent usage information and bulk fluid usage information. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the information on stainer consumable usage is used to make a determination regarding the ordering of additional supplies of one or more consumables. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the ordering of additional supplies of one or more consumables is done automatically. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the ordering of additional supplies of one or more consumables is based on an economic order quantity. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the ordering of additional supplies of one or more consumables is based on a predefined plan for the ordering of consumables subscribed to by an entity operating the stainer network. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the operations performed over the network on the at least one stainer include obtaining status information pertaining to slides that have not been loaded into the stainer. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein all commands sent to the stainer over the network connection and all responses received over the network connection are encrypted. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the operations performed over the network on the at least one stainer may be performed while other stainers in the LAN are operating and without materially affecting the operations of the other stainers in the LAN. 