A cartridge storage device for a data storage and retrieval system according to one embodiment comprises a housing having a front and a back positioned on opposite ends of the housing; a plurality of cells in the housing, each cell adapted for receiving a media cartridge; and a drive mechanism for selectively driving the cells towards a front opening in the front of the housing, the front opening allowing insertion and retrieval of the cartridges from the cells.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of providing a media cartridge to a data storage and retrieval system, comprising: inserting at least one media cartridge into a first opening of a cartridge storage device, wherein access to said first opening is provided by an opening in the data storage and retrieval system, the first opening being accessible when the cartridge storage device is fully inserted in the data storage and retrieval system; removing said at least one media cartridge from said cartridge storage device from a second opening thereof, wherein said second opening is on an opposite side of the cartridge storage device than the first opening, the at least one cartridge being movable along a path of movement between the first and second openings, wherein the openings respectively lie on lines tangent to the path of movement of the at least one cartridge through the cartridge storage device and generally parallel to a portion of the path of movement of the at least one cartridge through the cartridge storage device; and inserting said at least one media cartridge into a tape drive of said data storage and retrieval system. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising retrieving information about the at least one media cartridge in the cartridge storage device using a method selected from a group consisting of: viewing the at least one media cartridge in the cartridge storage device, reading a nonvolatile memory of the at least one media cartridge, and optically scanning the at least one media cartridge. 3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising simultaneously performing the method of claim 1 using a second cartridge storage device, a second at least one media cartridge, and the same data storage and retrieval system. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising removing the cartridge storage device from the data storage and retrieval system and coupling the cartridge storage device to a second data storage and retrieval system. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cartridge storage device comprises a housing having a front and a back; a plurality of cells in the housing, each cell adapted for receiving a media cartridge; and a drive mechanism for selectively driving the cells towards the second opening of the housing, the second opening allowing insertion and retrieval of the cartridges from the cells. 6. A data storage and retrieval system, comprising: a plurality of slots adapted for receiving system components; at least one drive for reading data from a media cartridge; at least one cartridge storage device capable of storing several of the cartridges, the at least one cartridge storage device having a front side, a back and sidewalls extending between the front side and the back, the at least one cartridge storage device being positioned in the slot front side first, wherein each slot in which a cartridge storage device is positioned has an opening for allowing access to the front of the cartridge storage device while inserted in the slot; and a picker for retrieving and inserting cartridges from the at least one cartridge storage device and transporting the cartridges between the at least one drive and the at least one media storage device, wherein at least one of the cartridge storage devices is not adjacent to any of the drives. 