A driving waveform circuit includes a crossbar array having input columns and output rows wherein the crossbar array is configured to store data in the form of high or low resistance states, delay timing circuitry electrically connecting an input signal to the input columns of the crossbar array and configured to provide a relative delay timing between the input signal and each input column, and summation circuitry electrically connected to the output rows of the crossbar array for generating one or more output signals based on the stored resistance state data and the input signal. The driving waveform circuit is taught to be applied as inkjet printing drivers, micromirror drivers, robotic actuators, display device drivers, audio device drivers, computational device drivers, and counters.
Claims I claim: 1. A driving waveform circuit including a crossbar array having input columns and output rows wherein the crossbar array is configured to store data in the form of high or low resistance states; delay timing circuitry electrically connected to the input columns of the crossbar array and configured to provide a relative delay timing between input signals of each input column; and summation circuitry electrically connected to the output rows of the crossbar array for generating one or more output signals based on the stored resistance state data and the input signals. 2. The driving waveform circuit of claim 1, wherein the crossbar includes wires having diameters less than 100 nm. 3. The driving waveform circuit of claim 1, wherein the crossbar includes wires having diameters greater than 100 nm. 4. The driving waveform circuit of claim 1, wherein the crossbar array includes TCNQ material as resistance variable material. 5. The driving waveform circuit of claim 1, wherein the crossbar array includes chalcogenide material as resistance variable material. 6. The driving waveform circuit of claim 1, wherein the crossbar array includes perovskite material as resistance variable material. 7. The driving waveform circuit of claim 1, wherein the crossbar array includes rotaxane material as resistance variable material. 8. The driving waveform circuit of claim 1, wherein the summation circuitry includes an operational amplifier. 9. The driving waveform circuit of claim 8, wherein each of the crossbar rows are electrically connected to a common inverting terminal of the operational amplifier via resistors having different values. 10. The driving waveform circuit of claim 1, wherein the summation circuitry includes multiple operational amplifiers electrically connected to different rows of the crossbar array. 11. The driving waveform circuit of claim 1, wherein the input signals are periodic signals with period T and the relative delay timing is less than T. 12. The driving waveform circuit of claim 1, wherein the input signals are periodic signals with period T and the relative delay timing is greater than T. 13. An inkjet printing device including the driving waveform circuit of claim 1 and at least one inkjet actuator driven by the driving waveform circuit. 14. A device including the driving waveform circuit of claim 1 and at least one micromirror driven by the driving waveform circuit. 15. A device including the driving waveform circuit of claim 1 and at least one piezoelectric actuator driven by the driving waveform circuit. 16. A device including the driving waveform circuit of claim 1 and at least one electromagnetic motor driven by the driving waveform circuit. 17. A display device including the driving waveform circuit of claim 1 and at least one electro-optic element driven by the driving waveform circuit. 18. An audio device including the driving waveform circuit of claim 1 and at least one acoustic element driven by the driving waveform circuit. 19. A computing device including the driving waveform circuit of claim 1 and at least one logic element driven by the driving waveform circuit. 20. A counting device including the driving waveform circuit of claim 1 and at least one counter driven by the driving waveform circuit. 