The digital copying machine has a printer, a writer and optionally a disk destruction devise connected to a personal computer by a USB port cable. The computer can select files from its hard drive and place them in a folder for writing on a disk in the digital copying machine. The personal computer can also make copies of a disk in its disk drive or make copies of portions of the disk in its disk drive and add files from the computer hard drive or from memory. The digital copying machine can print on the disks to identify them. The digital copying machine has a robotic arm for removing disks from a stack and placing them in the writer, the printer or on a finished stack. Software in the personal computer can be programmed for the number of copies to be made and what is printed on the disks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A digital copying machine comprising, a personal computer connected to a UBS port hub in a digital copying machine for transmitting data from the computer, a robotic arm for picking up and dropping disks in desired locations, a control card in the robotic arm, the robotic arm connected to the hub by a USB cable, the robotic arm has a stepper motor driven by the computer using variable speed pulsing to eliminate resonant frequencies which create noise and vibrations in the robotic arm and the digital copying machine, a writer having a retractable disk tray for accepting disks placed therein by the robotic arm, retracting the disk into the writer, writing to the disk, and extending the retractable disk tray for disk pick up by the robotic arm, the writer connected to the hub by a control USB cable and a data USB cable, a printer having a retractable disk tray for accepting disks placed therein by the robotic arm, retracting the disk into the printer and printing on the disk, and extending the retractable disk tray for disk pick up by the robotic arm, the printer connected to the hub by a USB cable with signals sent by ATAPI, software on the computer for selecting what is to be written on the disc, and sending the data to the writer for writing on the disc, software on the computer for selecting what is to be printed on the disc, and sending the data to the printer for printing on the disc, software on the computer for selecting the number of discs to produce and controlling the robotic arm, the printer and the writer for producing the desired number of copies. 2. A digital copying machine as in claim 1 wherein, a disk destroyer attached to the digital copy machine for destroying disks placed therein by the robotic arm. 3. A digital copying machine as in claim 1 wherein, a general user interface program on the computer allows selection of files to create a master for copying from sources selected from the group consisting of the computer hard drive, the computer memory and a disk. 4. A digital copying machine as in claim 1 wherein, software on the computer selects a serial number for inclusion on the disc. 5. A digital copying machine as in claim 4 wherein, software on the computer reads the serial number for inclusion on the disc and documents destruction of the disc. 6. A digital copying machine as in claim 2 wherein, an angled ramp from the digital copying machine to the disk destroyer accepts the disc from the robotic arm such that it slides into the disc destroyer. 