Embodiments of a method and apparatus for determining a substrate exchange position in a processing system are provided. In one embodiment, a method of determining a substrate exchange position in a processing system includes determining an initial exchange position within a processing chamber, and resolving a change in the exchange position. The step of resolving may further include the step of sensing a change in temperature of a facet of a transfer chamber having the processing chamber coupled thereto, sensing a change in a state of the system, or sensing a change in position of the processing chamber, among others.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transferring a substrate in a processing system having at least one processing chamber coupled to a transfer chamber housing a robot, the method comprising: teaching the robot to move to an exchange position defined in the processing system; and monitoring a condition within the processing system by sensing a change in temperature within a facet of the transfer chamber through which the robot must extend to reach the exchange position; determining a shift in the exchange position based on the monitored condition; and correcting motion of the robot to compensate for the shift in the exchange position. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensing the change in temperature further comprises: sensing a change in temperature of a different facet of the transfer chamber. 3. A method for transferring a substrate in a processing system having at least one processing chamber coupled to a transfer chamber housing a robot, the method comprising: teaching the robot to move to an exchange position defined in the processing system; monitoring a condition within the processing system; determining a shift in the exchange position based on the monitored condition by sensing a change in position of the at least one processing chamber; and correcting motion of the robot to compensate for the shift in the exchange position. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the sensing the change in position of the at least one processing chamber further comprises: sensing a metric indicative of a position of a centerline of the at least one processing chamber. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the sensing the change in position of the at least one processing chamber further comprises: sensing a metric indicative of a position of a centerline of the transfer chamber. 6. A method for transferring a substrate in a processing system having at least one processing chamber coupled to a transfer chamber housing a robot, the method comprising: teaching the robot to move to an exchange position defined in the processing system; and correcting motion of the robot to compensate for a shift in the exchange position by: measuring a change in at least one of the position and orientation of the at least one processing chamber relative to the transfer chamber; and adjusting motion of the robot to compensate for the measured changes. 7. A method for transferring a substrate in a processing system having at least one processing chamber coupled to a transfer chamber housing a robot, the method comprising: teaching the robot to move to an exchange position defined in the processing system; and correcting motion of the robot to compensate for a shift in the exchange position by: sensing a change in at least one of the position and orientation of the at least one processing chamber relative to the transfer chamber; and adjusting motion of the robot to compensate for the sensed changes. 8. A method for transferring a substrate in a processing system having at least one processing chamber coupled to a transfer chamber housing a robot, the method comprising: teaching the robot to move to an exchange position defined in the processing system; and correcting motion of the robot to compensate for a shift in the exchange position by: resolving a change in at least one of the position and orientation of the at least one processing chamber relative to the transfer chamber; and adjusting motion of the robot to compensate for the resolved changes. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the resolving changes further comprises at least one of modeling thermal expansion of the transfer chamber, modeling thermal expansion of the at least one processing chamber, and utilizing empirical data that is representative of relative positions of the at least one processing chamber relative to the transfer chamber due to thermal effects. 10. A method for transferring a substrate in a processing system having at least one processing chamber coupled to a transfer chamber housing a robot, the method comprising: teaching the robot to move to an exchange position defined in the processing system; and correcting motion of the robot to compensate for a shift in the exchange position due to a change in the thermal profile of the transfer chamber. 11. A method for transferring a substrate in a processing system having at least one processing chamber coupled to a transfer chamber housing a robot, the method comprising: teaching the robot to move to an exchange position defined in the processing system; and correcting motion of the robot to compensate for a shift in the exchange position due to a change in the thermal profile of the at least one processing chamber. 12. A method for transferring a substrate in a processing system having at least a first processing chamber coupled to a transfer chamber housing a robot, the method comprising: defining an exchange position of the first processing chamber; sensing temperature of at least one component of the system that results in a shift in the exchange position; resolving the shift in the exchange position corresponding to the sensed temperature; and correcting robot motion to compensate for the shift in the exchange position. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the sensing further comprises: sensing a temperature of at least one facet of the transfer chamber. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the resolving further comprises: determining a change in at least one of the position and orientation of a facet of the transfer chamber from which the temperature was sensed. 15. A method for transferring a substrate in a processing system having at least a first processing chamber coupled to a transfer chamber housing a robot, the method comprising: teaching the robot to move to an exchange position defined in the first processing chamber relative to a predefined reference point within the transfer chamber; detecting a shift in the exchange position by determining a change in at least one of the position and orientation of a facet of the transfer chamber corresponding to a change in a sensed temperature; and correcting the taught robot motion to compensate for the shift in the exchange position. 16. A method for transferring a substrate in a processing system having at least a first processing chamber coupled to a transfer chamber housing a robot, the method comprising: teaching the robot to move to an exchange position defined in the first processing chamber relative to a predefined reference point within the transfer chamber; detecting a shift in the exchange position by determining a change in at least one of position and orientation of the first processing chamber; and correcting the taught robot motion to compensate for the shift in the exchange position. 17. A method for transferring a substrate in a processing system having at least a first processing chamber coupled to a transfer chamber housing a robot, the method comprising: establishing a predefined reference point within the transfer chamber and an exchange position of the first processing chamber; teaching the robot to move to the exchange position; monitoring relative positional change between the reference point and exchange position, wherein the monitoring the relative positional change between the reference point and exchange position further comprises detecting a change in lateral position of a substrate support disposed in the first processing chamber; and correcting the taught position of the robot in response to the relative positional change, thereby allowing the robot to arrive at the exchange position. 18. A method for transferring a substrate in a processing system having at least a first processing chamber coupled to a transfer chamber housing a robot, the method comprising: establishing a predefined reference point within the transfer chamber and an exchange position of the first processing chamber; teaching the robot to move to the exchange position; monitoring relative positional change between the reference point and the exchange position, wherein the monitoring the relative positional change between the reference point and the exchange position further comprises detecting a change in lateral position of the reference point of the transfer chamber due to thermal changes of the transfer chamber; and correcting the taught position of the robot in response to the relative positional change, thereby allowing the robot to arrive at the exchange position. 