The present invention provides a method and a system for determining whether a target component of an electronic assembly is assembled correctly. The method of the present invention involves correlating the view of a test electronic assembly with both a positive control image and a negative control image. The positive control image is an image of an electronic assembly that has been assembled properly, whereas the negative control image is an image of an electronic assembly that has been assembled improperly. If the correlation between the test image and the positive control image is greater than the correlation between the test image and the negative control image, the test assembly is assembled properly. On the other hand, if the correlation between the test image and the negative control image is greater than the correlation between the test image and the positive control image, the test assembly is assembled improperly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for screening electronic assemblies, comprising a processor performing the steps comprising: (a) capturing a test image of an electronic assembly; (b) determining a positive likeness value (PLV) based on a first degree of likeness between the test image and an image of a positive control, wherein the PLV is based upon a model of a correctly assembled electronic assembly; (c) determining a negative likeness value (NLV) based on a second degree of likeness between the test image and an image of a negative control, wherein the NLV is based upon a model of an incorrectly assembled electronic assembly; and (d) comparing the PLV with the NLV to determine if the imaged portion of the electronic assembly is assembled properly. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of retaining the electronic assembly, when step (d) results in the PLV being greater than the NLV. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of discarding the electronic assembly, when step (d) results in the PLV being smaller than the NLV. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of reassembling the electronic assembly, when step (d) results in the PLV being smaller than the NLV. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the PLV in step (b) and the NLV in step (c) are determined based on grey-scale correlations of the corresponding images. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the PLV of step (b) and the NLV of step (c) are based on geometric correlations of the corresponding images. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the PLV of step (b) and the NLV of step (c) are based on polar correlations of the corresponding images. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the PLV and the NLV is a number between 0 and 1, wherein 0 indicates no likeness, and 1 indicates complete likeness. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: (e) capturing the image of a positive control from a first electronic assembly having a target component disposed in a correct orientation; and (f) capturing the image of a negative control from a second electronic assembly having the target component disposed in an incorrect orientation. 10. A vision detection system for detecting a defect in electronic assemblies comprising: means for obtaining images of electronic assemblies; and program software operably connected to the means for obtaining the images, the program software containing an algorithm for determining degrees of likeness between an image of a test electronic assembly and images of a positive control and a negative control, wherein the positive control is a model of a correctly assembled electronic assembly, and the negative control is a model of an incorrectly assembled electronic assembly, and the program software including instructions for comparing the degrees of likeness to determine whether the image of the test electronic assembly is more like the image of the positive control or the image of the negative control. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising a processor operably communicated with the program software wherein the program software adapted to enable the processor to create a positive likeness value (PLV) representing a first degree of likeness between the image of the electronic assembly and the image of the positive control, and a negative likeness value (NLV) representing a second degree of likeness between the image of the electronic assembly and the image of the negative control, and compare the PLV to the NLV. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the PLV and the NLV are calculated based on grey-scale correlations between the corresponding images. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the PLV and the NLV are calculated based on geometric correlations between the corresponding images. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the PLV and the NLV are calculated based on polar correlations between the corresponding images. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein the software calculated each of the PLV and the NLV to be a number between 0 to 1, and wherein 0 indicates no likeness, and 1 indicates complete likeness. 16. In an image processing system, a computer readable medium encoded with software comprising: instructions for comparing images of electronic assembly and a positive and a negative control images, wherein the positive control image is an image of a correctly assembled model, and the negative control image is an image of an incorrectly assembled model; and instructions for determining degrees of likeness of the images of the electronic assembly to the positive and the negative control images to determine if the imaged portion of the electronic assembly is assembled correctly. 17. The computer readable medium encoded with software of claim 16, wherein the program software is adapted to enable a processor to create a positive likeness value (PLV) representing the degree of likeness between the image of the electronic assembly and the image of the positive control, and a negative likeness value (NLV) representing the degree of likeness between the image of the electronic assembly and the image of the negative control, and compare the PLV to the NLV. 18. The computer readable medium encoded with software of claim 17, wherein each of the PLV and the NLV is calculated to be a number between 0 to 1, and wherein 0 indicates no likeness, and 1 indicates complete likeness. 19. The computer readable medium encoded with software of claim 17, wherein the PLV and the NLV are calculated based on grey-scale correlations between corresponding images. 20. The computer readable medium encoded with software of claim 17, wherein the PLV and the NLV are calculated based on geometric correlations between corresponding images. 21. The computer readable medium encoded with software of claim 17, wherein the PLV and the NLV are calculated based on polar correlations between corresponding images. 22. The method of claim 1 further comprising at least one of the following steps: retaining the electronic assembly when step (d) results in the PLV being greater than the NLV; discarding the electronic assembly when step (d) results in the PLV being smaller than the NLV; and reassembling the electronic assembly when step (d) results in the PLV being smaller than the NLV. 23. The vision detection system of claim 10, wherein the program software algorithm further includes the instructions for at least one of: retaining the electronic assembly when the degree of likeness of the positive control is greater than the degree of likeness of the negative control; discarding the electronic assembly when the degree of likeness of the positive control is smaller than the degree of likeness of the negative control; and reassembling the electronic assembly when the degree of likeness of the positive control is smaller than the degree of likeness of the negative control. 24. The image processing system of claim 16 further comprising at least one of: instructions for retaining the electronic assembly when the degree of likeness of the positive control is greater than the degree of likeness of the negative control; instructions for discarding the electronic assembly when the degree of likeness of the positive control is smaller than the degree of likeness of the negative control; and instructions for reassembling the electronic assembly when the degree of likeness of the positive control is smaller than the degree of likeness of the negative control. 