A self-propelled, automated, autonomic grid crawler which, when attached to a wire, moves along the wire to sense conditions of the wire. The grid crawler includes a central processing unit (CPU), working memory, such as random access memory (RAM), persistent money, such as read only memory (ROM) and hard drive (HD), sensor electronics, a wireless interface, a location device, such as a global positioning satellite (GPS) receiver, motive power system, and a battery. The sensor electronics serves to sense various types of faults. The CPU analyzes the data from the sensor electronics using pre-analysis and pre-qualification algorithms, which are stored in the HD. Depending on the results of the analysis, the CPU transmits information to the central station, either directly or indirectly via mounted docking devices, that potentially indicates a fault, including the location of the fault as determined by the GPS receiver. The pre-processing and pre-qualifying of the data at the autonomic grid crawler limits the amount of data that needs to be transmitted to the central station, thereby saving battery power.
Claims Having thus described our invention, what we claim as new and desire to secure by Letter Patent is as follows: 1. A self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical device which, when attached to a power network wire, travels along the wire and is able to recognize the basic states of the wire and communicates the state of the wire to a central station, the device comprising: means adapted to engage and move along the wire; a main body of the device supported by said means adapted to engage and move along the wire, the main body including a central processing unit (CPU), working memory, persistent memory, sensor electronics, a communication interface, a location device, motive power system for said means adapted to engage and move along the wire, and a battery; and a docking member associated with the main body for with one or more docking devices positioned at periodic intervals on poles supporting the power grid, said docking member providing one or more of a recharging path from a docking device to charge said battery, and a communication path for uploading said information that potentially indicates a fault to the docking device. 2. The device recited in claim 1, wherein the means adapted to engage and move along the wire comprises a plurality of rollers adapted to engage and roll along the wire, each of the rollers being connected to a respective one of a plurality of articulated arms, said main body of the device being connected to said plurality of articulated arms so as to be suspended from the wire by said plurality of rollers. 3. The device recited in claim 1, wherein the location device is a global position satellite (GPS) receiver. 4. The device recited in claim 1, wherein the persistent memory includes read only memory (ROM) and a hard drive (HD). 5. The device recited in claim 1, wherein said docking member provides a recharging path from a docking device to charge said battery. 6. The device recited in claim 1, wherein said docking member provides a communication path for uploading said information that potentially indicates a fault to a docking device. 7. The self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical device of claim 1, wherein said persistent memory stores pre-analysis and pre-qualifying algorithms used by the CPU; wherein said sensor electronics collects data of various types of faults and conditions of said wire, and inputs the data of various types of faults and conditions into the CPU; wherein said CPU analyzes said data from the sensor electronics using said pre-analysis and pre-qualifying algorithms from the persistent memory, after the pre-analysis and pre-qualification algorithms identify indications of a potential fault, transmits information via said communication interface to the central station, the information including location of the potential fault as determined by said location device. 8. A system for detecting high impedance faults in a power grid comprising: a plurality of self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical devices which, when attached to power network wires, travel along the wires and are able to recognize the basic states of the wires, wherein each of said plurality of self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical devices comprises means adapted to engage and move along the wire, and a main body of the device supported by said means adapted to engage and move along the wire, the main body including a central processing unit (CPU), working memory, persistent memory, sensor electronics, a communication interface, a location device, motive power system for said means adapted to engage and move along the wire, and a battery, and wherein each of said plurality of self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical devices comprises a docking means associated with the main body for with one or more docking devices positioned at periodic intervals on poles supporting the power grid, said docking means providing one or more of a recharging path from a docking device to charge said battery, and a communication path for uploading said information that potentially indicates a fault to the docking device, wherein said persistent memory stores pre-analysis and pre-qualifying algorithms used by the CPU; wherein said sensor electronics collects data of various types of faults and conditions of said wire, and inputs the data of various types of faults and conditions into the CPU; wherein said CPU analyzes said data from the sensor electronics using said pre-analysis and pre-qualifying algorithms from the persistent memory, after the pre-analysis and pre-qualification algorithms identify indications of a potential fault, transmits information via said communication interface to the central station, the information including location of the potential fault as determined by said location device; a plurality of docking devices mounted at intervals on poles supporting said power grid, each of said plurality of docking devices being able to dock with said docking means on each of said plurality of self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical devices, and a central station in communication with each of said plurality of self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical devices and receiving information of potential faults and their locations in the power grid. 9. The system recited in claim 8, wherein said docking means provides a recharging path from the docking device to charge said battery. 10. The system recited in claim 8, wherein said docking means provides a communication path for uploading said information that potentially indicates a fault to the docking device, said docking device being communication with said central station to transmit said uploaded information. 11. A method of detecting high impedance faults in a power grid comprising the steps of: deploying a plurality of self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical devices which are attached to a power network wires to travel along the wires, each of said plurality of self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical devices being able to recognize basic states of the wires; and mounting a plurality of docking devices at periodic intervals on poles supporting the power grid; and communicating to a central station by each of said plurality of self-propelled automated, autonomic mechanical devices information of potential faults and their locations in the power grid; and engaging one of said plurality of self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical devices by one of said plurality of docking devices when said one of said plurality of self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical devices comes into proximity with one of said plurality of docking devices. 12. The method recited in claim 11, further comprising the step of recharging a battery of said one of said plurality of self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical devices by said one of said plurality of docking devices. 13. The method recited in claim 11, further comprising the steps of: uploading fault and location information from said one of said plurality of self-propelled, automated, autonomic mechanical devices to said one of said plurality of docking devices; and communicating said uploaded information from said one of said plurality of docking devices to said central station. 