The present invention relates to a lithographic projection apparatus with a supporting structure to support and move an object, like a substrate. The supporting structure may be a robot having a robotic arm with a support frame for supporting, e.g. the substrate. The support frame includes a clamping structure having one or more clamps for holding the substrate during movement. The robot arm comprises one or more compliant parts. The clamp may be a Johnson-Raybeck effect type clamp with an oxidized upper surface. For better de-clamping, a RF AC decaying de-clamping voltage may be provided to the clamp. The apparatus may be cleaned with one single substrate only.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A lithographic support system, comprising: a moveable support structure configured to support and move an object, said support structure comprising a robot arm having a rod coupled to a support frame that is provided with a clamp that clamps the object; and a flexible compliant structure configured to absorb a force created by a collision between said object and said clamp, the flexible compliant structure being provided at least between the rod and the support frame. 2. The lithographic support system of claim 1, wherein said flexible compliant structure comprises two or more compliant rods that are rotatable at their ends. 3. The lithographic support system of claim 1, wherein said flexible compliant structure comprises a notch such that a front portion of the support frame is enabled to rotate. 4. The lithographic support system of claim 1, further comprising a second flexible compliant structure provided on said clamp. 5. The lithographic support system of claim 1, wherein said support frame is in a plane defined by a x-axis, a y-axis, and a z-axis being perpendicular to said x-axis and said y-axis, said flexible compliant structure providing a compliance in at least one of a first rotation about said x-axis, a second rotation about said y-axis, and a z-direction parallel to said z-axis. 6. The lithographic support system of claim 1, wherein said flexible compliant structure is arranged such that said support frame is allowed to rotate about a predetermined center of rotation. 7. The lithographic support system of claim 1, wherein said object comprises a substrate. 8. The lithographic support system of claim 1, wherein said flexible compliant structure comprises a metal flexure. 9. The lithographic support system of claim 1, wherein the clamp is in contact with the object. 10. The lithographic support system of claim 1, wherein the flexible compliant structure is arranged at least between the rod and the support frame so as to be in a contactless relationship with the object. 11. The lithographic support system of claim 1, wherein the flexible compliant structure is configured to absorb a force created by a collision between the object and the clamp during transport of the object between a first and a second support, the first and the second support configured to support the object. 12. The lithographic support system of claim 1, wherein the flexible compliant structure includes a flexible material. 13. The lithographic support system of claim 1, wherein the flexible compliant structure includes at least one pair of leaf springs configured to provide a compliance in at least three degrees of freedom. 14. A lithographic robot, comprising: a robotic arm configured to hold and move an object, the robotic arm having a rod coupled to a support frame that is provided with a clamp; and a flexible compliant structure configured to absorb a force created by a collision between said object and said robotic arm, the flexible compliant structure being provided at least between the rod and the support frame. 15. The lithographic robot of claim 14, wherein said flexible compliant structure comprises two or more flexible compliant rods that are rotatable at their ends. 16. The lithographic robot of claim 15, wherein said flexible compliant structure comprises a notch such that a front portion of the support frame is enabled to rotate. 17. The lithographic robot of claim 14, wherein the flexible compliant structure includes a flexible material. 18. A lithographic apparatus, comprising: a radiation system configured to provide a beam of radiation; a support structure configured to support a patterning device that imparts a desired pattern onto said beam of radiation; a substrate holder configured to hold a substrate; a projection system configured to project said patterned beam onto a target portion of said substrate; and a support system that holds and moves one of said substrate, said patterning device, and an object, in which said support system comprises: a support frame provided with a clamp; a rod coupled to the support frame; and a flexible compliant structure configured to absorb a force created by a collision between said substrate, said patterning device, or said object and said clamp, the flexible compliant structure being provided at least between the rod and the support frame. 19. The lithographic apparatus of claim 18, wherein the flexible compliant structure includes a flexible material. 20. A device manufacturing method, comprising: providing a substrate via a support system, said supporting system comprising a rod coupled to a support frame that is provided with a clamp structure that clamps said substrate, said supporting system configured to hold and move said substrate and absorb a force created by a collision between said substrate and said clamping structure by employing a flexible compliant structure provided at least between the rod and the support frame; providing a beam of radiation using a radiation system; imparting a desired pattern onto said beam of radiation by a patterning device; and projecting said patterned beam of radiation onto a target portion of said substrate via a projection system. 21. The device manufacturing method of claim 20, wherein the flexible compliant structure includes a flexible material. 22. A lithographic support system, comprising: a moveable support structure configured to support and move an object, the support structure comprising a robot arm having a rod coupled to a support frame that includes a clamp configured to clamp the object; and a flexible compliant structure configured to absorb a force created by a collision between the object and the clamp during transport of the object between a first and a second support, the first and the second support configured to support the object, the flexible compliant structure provided on the rod or the support frame so as to be in a contactless relationship with the object. 23. The lithographic support system of claim 22, wherein the clamp is in contact with the object. 24. The lithographic support system of claim 22, wherein the flexible compliant structure includes a flexible material. 25. A lithographic support system comprising: a moveable supporting structure configured to move and support an object, the moveable supporting structure including a rod having a clamp mounted on one end of the rod and a compliant portion, the compliant portion provided by at least two notches in the cross section of the rod, the compliant portion providing compliance in one degree of freedom. 