The invention is directed to a method by exposing at least a portion of a luminescent coating disposed on a surface of an article to ultraviolet light at one or more preselected wavelengths causing said luminescent coating to exhibit a luminescence spectrum, the luminescence spectrum exhibiting a plurality of intensity peaks that have been priorly determined to create a standard; determining the intensity of at least two peaks in the luminescence spectrum of the coating; determining a peak intensity ratio of the at least two peaks; comparing the peak intensity ratio determined with the standard; and, classifying the article according to whether or not the peak intensity ratio does or does not match the standard; wherein the luminescent coating comprises a particulate luminescent composition comprising a rare earth doped fluoride represented by the formula RE.sub.xA.sub.1-xF.sub.2+x-2yO.sub.y wherein RE represents a three-valent rare-earth element, A is alkaline earth, 0.002.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.20, and 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.x.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising exposing at least a portion of a luminescent coating disposed on a surface of an article to ultraviolet light at one or more preselected wavelengths causing said luminescent coating to exhibit a luminescence spectrum wherein the luminescence spectrum exhibits a plurality of intensity peaks that have been priorly determined to create a standard; determining the intensity of at least two peaks in the luminescence spectrum of the coating; determining a peak intensity ratio of the at least two peaks; comparing the peak intensity ratio determined with the standard; and, classifying the article according to whether or not the peak intensity ratio does or does not match the standard; wherein the luminescent coating comprises a particulate luminescent composition comprising a rare earth doped fluoride represented by the formula RE.sub.xA.sub.1-xF.sub.2+x-2yO.sub.y wherein RE represents a three-valent rare-earth element, A is alkaline earth, 0.002.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.20, and 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.x. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one pair of the intensity peaks at different wavelengths in the luminescence spectrum of the particulate luminescent compound exhibits a peak intensity ratio that is at least 5% greater than the corresponding peak intensity ratio of a corresponding first reference composition, and that is also at least 5% less than the corresponding peak intensity ratio of a corresponding second reference composition. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the intensity ratios differ by at least 10%. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the coating or the first coating and the second coating further comprise a polymer within which the particles of the luminescent composition are dispersed. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the polymer is ethyl cellulose. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein RE is selected from Eu.sup.+3, Tb.sup.+3 or Er.sup.+3. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein A is selected from Sr.sup.+2, Ca.sup.+2, or Ba.sup.+2. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein 0.01.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.10. 9. A method comprising, within a first time period, a coater causing to be disposed upon the surface of a first plurality of articles, a first luminescent coating, thereby producing a first plurality of coated articles; and, within a second time period, the coater causing to be disposed upon the surface of a second plurality of articles, a second luminescent coating, thereby producing a second plurality of coated articles; a classifier causing to be exposed at least a portion of one or more of the first or second plurality of coated articles to ultraviolet light at one or more preselected wavelengths thereby causing the coating to exhibit, respectively a first or second luminescence spectrum, each the first or second luminescence spectrum exhibiting a plurality of intensity peaks the wavelengths of the peaks having been priorly determined using light comprising the preselected wavelength or wavelengths to create a first standard corresponding to the first plurality of coated articles and a second standard corresponding to the second plurality of coated articles; determining the peak intensity ratio of at least two of the intensity peaks in the first or second luminescence spectrum of the first or second coating; comparing the peak intensity ratio so determined with, respectively, the first or second standard depending upon whether the coated article is from the first or the second plurality of coated articles; and, classifying the article according to whether or not the peak intensity ratio does or does not match the first or second standard, respectively; each the coating comprising a particulate luminescent composition, comprising a rare-earth-doped alkaline earth fluoride represented by the formula RE.sub.xA.sub.1-xF.sub.2+x-2yO.sub.y wherein RE represents a three-valent rare-earth element, A is alkaline earth, 0.002.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.20, and 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.x; the particulate luminescent composition exhibiting a luminescence spectrum having a plurality of intensity peaks at characteristic wavelengths. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein at least one pair of the intensity peaks at different wavelengths in the luminescence spectrum of the particulate luminescent compound exhibits a peak intensity ratio that is at least 5% greater than the corresponding peak intensity ratio of a corresponding first reference composition, and that is also at least 5% less than the corresponding peak intensity ratio of a corresponding second reference composition. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the intensity ratios differ by at least 10%. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the coating or the first coating and the second coating further comprise a polymer within which the particles of the luminescent composition are dispersed. 13. The method of claim 9 wherein RE is selected from Eu.sup.+3, Tb.sup.+3 or Er.sup.+3. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein A is selected from Sr.sup.+2, Ca.sup.+2, or Ba.sup.+2. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein 0.01.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.10. 