A method for manipulating a three-dimensional model of a patient's teeth for making one or more tooth positioning appliances involves: forming at least one three-dimensional model of the patient's teeth; acquiring an initial digital data set representing at least part of the three-dimensional model; manipulating a digital model derived from the initial digital data set to move at least one tooth from an initial position to a first intermediate position; forming a first guide from the digital model with the at least one tooth in the first intermediate position; separating the at least one tooth from the three-dimensional model; placing the at least one tooth in the first guide in the first intermediate position; and securing the at least one tooth to the three-dimensional model in the first intermediate position. Guide apparatus and systems are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for manipulating a three-dimensional model of a patient's teeth for making one or more tooth positioning appliances, the method comprising: forming at least one three-dimensional model of the patient's teeth; acquiring an initial digital data set representing at least part of the three-dimensional model; manipulating a digital model derived from the initial digital data set to move at least one tooth from an initial position to a first intermediate position; forming a first guide from the digital model with the at least one tooth in the first intermediate position; separating the at least one tooth from the three-dimensional model; placing the at least one tooth in the first guide in the first intermediate position; and securing the at least one tooth to the three-dimensional model in the first intermediate position. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one three-dimensional model comprises at least one of a model of the patient's upper teeth, a model of the patient's lower teeth, and a bite registration model. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein forming the at least one three-dimensional model comprises: taking at least one impression of the patient's upper teeth, lower teeth, or both; depositing a material into the impression; allowing the material to harden to form the three-dimensional model; and removing the three-dimensional model from the impression. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein depositing the material comprises depositing at least one of plaster, stone, plastic and polymer material into the impression. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein acquiring the initial digital data set comprises scanning at least one of the three-dimensional model, the patient's teeth and an impression of the patient's teeth to produce one or more digital scans. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein acquiring the initial digital data set comprises receiving one or more digital scans from a third party source. 7. The method of claim 5 or 6, wherein the digital scan(s) are acquired using a scanner selected from the group consisting of computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, X-ray, laser, structured light, spectral light and destructive scanners. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein manipulating the digital model comprises moving a plurality of teeth from initial positions to first intermediate positions. 9. The method as in claim 1, further comprising reshaping the at least one tooth on the digital model to facilitate repositioning of the tooth. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein forming the first guide comprises using a computer to direct a fabricating machine to form the guide, based on the manipulated digital model. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein using the computer to direct the fabricating machine comprises directing a milling machine to mill a plurality of recesses into a piece of material, each recess formed to receive at least a portion of a tooth of the three-dimensional model. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein using the computer to direct the fabricating machine comprises directing a rapid prototyping machine to build up the guide from a material, the guide having a plurality of recesses, each recess formed to receive at least a portion of a tooth of the three-dimensional model. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the rapid prototyping machine is selected from the group consisting of stereolithography, laminate object manufacturing and fused deposition modeling machines. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the separating, placing and securing steps are performed by a robot or other automated machine. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: placing at least one reference jig on the three-dimensional model after the forming step; and removably attaching the three-dimensional model to an automated cutting machine, using the jig as a reference, wherein the cutting machine then performs the separating step. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising removably attaching the three-dimensional model to an automated tooth placing machine, using the jig as a reference, wherein the tooth placing machine then performs the placing step. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein securing the at least one tooth comprises applying at least one of wax, adhesive, resin, silicone and stone compounds. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one tooth comprises a plurality of teeth, the method further comprising labeling the teeth that are separated from the three-dimensional model to indicate positions in which they should be placed in the guide. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising marking the guide to match each labeled tooth with a corresponding position in the guide. 20. The method of claim 1, further comprising reducing the size of the at least one tooth separated from the three-dimensional model to facilitate repositioning of the tooth. 21. The method of claim 1, further comprising placing one or more grooves or other surface markings on the at least one separated tooth to facilitate the securing step. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising placing one or more additional grooves or other surface markings on the three-dimensional model to further facilitate the securing step. 23. The method of claim 1, further comprising: removing the three-dimensional model from the guide with the at least one tooth secured to it in the first intermediate position; and forming a first tooth positioning appliance over the three-dimensional model. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising, after the removing step, forming a first intermediate model from the three-dimensional model, wherein the first tooth positioning appliance is formed over the first intermediate model. 25. The method of claim 23 or 24, wherein forming the first tooth positioning appliance comprises thermoforming a plastic material over the three-dimensional model or first intermediate model. 26. The method of claim 1, further comprising: manipulating the digital model to move the at least one tooth from the first intermediate position to a second intermediate position; forming a second guide from the digital model with the at least one tooth in the second intermediate position; separating the at least one tooth from the three-dimensional model; placing the at least one tooth in the guide in the second intermediate position; and securing the at least one tooth to the three-dimensional model in the second intermediate position. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising: forming a first tooth positioning appliance over the three-dimensional model after the first securing step; and forming a second tooth positioning appliance over the three-dimensional model after the second securing step. 28. The method of claim 26, further comprising: forming, after the first securing step, a first intermediate model from the three-dimensional model; and forming, after the second securing step, a second intermediate model from the three-dimensional model. 29. The method of claim 28, further comprising forming first and second tooth positioning appliances over the first and second intermediate models. 30. The method of claim 26, further comprising: manipulating the digital model to move the at least one tooth from the second intermediate position to a third position; forming a third guide from the digital model with the at least one tooth in the final position; separating the at least one tooth from the three-dimensional model; placing the at least one tooth in the guide in the third position; and securing the at least one tooth to the three-dimensional model in the third position. 31. The method of claim 30, further comprising: forming a first tooth positioning appliance over the three-dimensional model after the first securing step; forming a second tooth positioning appliance over the three-dimensional model after the second securing step; and forming a third tooth positioning appliance over the three-dimensional model after the third securing step. 32. The method of claim 30, further comprising: forming, after the first securing step, a first intermediate model from the three-dimensional model; forming, after the second securing step, a second intermediate model from the three-dimensional model; and forming, after the third securing step, a third tooth positioning appliance over the three-dimensional model. 33. The method of claim 32, further comprising forming first, second and third tooth positioning appliances over the first, second and third models. 34. The method of claim 31 or 33, wherein the third positioning appliance comprises a final appliance. 35. The method of claim 31 or 33, further comprising repeating the manipulating, forming, separating, placing and securing steps to form a fourth guide and fourth tooth positioning appliance. 36. The method of claim 35, further comprising repeating the manipulating, forming, separating, placing and securing steps to form between five and thirty guides and between five and thirty tooth positioning appliances. 37. The method of claim 1, further comprising: manipulating the digital model to move at least one additional tooth from an initial position to a first intermediate position; forming a second guide from the digital model with the at least one additional tooth in its first intermediate position; separating the at least one additional tooth from the three-dimensional model; placing the at least one additional tooth in the guide in its first intermediate position; and securing the at least one additional tooth to the three-dimensional model in its first intermediate position. 38. The method of claim 37, further comprising: forming a first tooth positioning appliance over the three-dimensional model after the first securing step; and forming a second tooth positioning appliance over the three-dimensional model after the second securing step. 39. The method of claim 37, further comprising: forming, after the first securing step, a first intermediate model from the three-dimensional model; and forming, after the second securing step, a second intermediate model from the three-dimensional model. 40. The method of claim 39, further comprising forming first and second tooth positioning appliances over the first and second models. 41. The method of claim 1, wherein the first guide is formed to be configured to receive the at least one moved tooth and at least one other tooth of the three dimensional model, so as to reposition the at least one tooth to the first intermediate position relative to the three-dimensional model. 42. The method of claim 41, further comprising: manipulating the digital model to move the at least one tooth from the first intermediate position to a second position; and forming a second guide from the digital model, wherein the second guide is configured to receive the at least one moved tooth and at least one other tooth of the three-dimensional model so as to reposition the at least one tooth to the second position relative to the three-dimensional model. 43. The method of claim 41, wherein the first guide is formed to include a plurality of recesses, each recess shaped to receive at least a portion of a tooth of the model, wherein at least one of the recesses is shaped to reposition a tooth separated from the model from an initial position to a first position, and wherein the at least one recess shaped to reposition the tooth is shaped according to instructions from a manipulated digital model of the patient's teeth. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein the first guide comprises a three-dimensional bite pattern guide representing a bite pattern of a set of teeth selected from the group consisting of the patient's upper set of teeth and the patient's lower set of teeth. 45. The method of claim 43, wherein a plurality of the recesses are shaped to reposition a plurality of teeth on the three-dimensional model, each recess configured to reposition one of the teeth. 46. A method for making a tooth positioning appliance for repositioning a patient's teeth, the method comprising: forming a first guide from a digital model of the patient's teeth; separating at least one tooth from a three-dimensional model of the patient's teeth; placing the at least one tooth in the first guide, wherein the first guide repositions the at least one tooth relative to the rest of the three-dimensional model from an initial position to a first position; securing the at least one tooth to the three-dimensional model in the first intermediate position; and forming a first tooth positioning appliance over the three-dimensional model with the at least one tooth in the first position. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein the at least one tooth comprises a plurality of teeth. 48. The method of claim 46, further comprising: forming a second guide from the digital model of the patient's teeth; separating the at least one tooth from the three-dimensional model; placing the at least one tooth in the second guide, wherein the second guide repositions the at least one tooth to a second position; securing the at least one tooth to the three-dimensional model in the second position; and forming a second tooth positioning appliance over the three-dimensional model with the at least one tooth in the second position. 49. The method of claim 48, further comprising repeating the forming, separating, placing, securing and forming steps to provide a third guide and a third tooth positioning appliance. 50. The method of claim 49, further comprising repeating the forming, separating, placing, securing and forming steps to provide between four and thirty guides and between four and thirty tooth positioning appliances. 51. The method of claim 48, further comprising, before forming the appliances: forming a first intermediate model from the three-dimensional model with the at least one tooth in the first position; forming a second intermediate model from the three-dimensional model with the at least one tooth in the second position, wherein the first and second tooth positioning appliances are formed over the first and second intermediate models. 52. The method of claim 46, wherein at least one of the separating, placing and securing steps are performed by a robot or other automated machine. 53. The method of claim 52, wherein the separating step is performed by an automated machine selected from the group consisting of a laser cutting machine and a computer numerical control (CNC) machine. 54. The method of claim 52, further comprising trimming material from the appliances to create finished appliances, wherein the material is trimmed using an automated machine directed according to one or more digital data sets. 55. The method of claim 46, further comprising: forming a second guide from the digital model of the patient's teeth; separating the at least one tooth from the three-dimensional model; placing the at least one tooth in the second guide, wherein the second guide repositions at least one additional tooth to a first position from an initial position; securing the at least one additional tooth to the three-dimensional model in the first position; and forming a second tooth positioning appliance over the three-dimensional model with the at least one additional tooth in the first position. 56. The method of claim 55, further comprising, before forming the appliances: forming a first intermediate model from the three-dimensional model with the at least one tooth in the first position; forming a second intermediate model from the three-dimensional model with the at least one additional tooth in the first position, wherein the first and second tooth positioning appliances are formed over the first and second intermediate models. 57. The method of claim 46, where the step of forming a first guide comprises: forming the three-dimensional model of the patient's teeth; acquiring an initial digital data set representing at least part of the three-dimensional model; manipulating a digital model derived from the initial digital data set to move at least one tooth from an initial position to a first position; and forming a first guide from the digital model, wherein the first guide is configured to receive the at least one moved tooth and at least one other tooth of the three dimensional model so as to reposition the at least one tooth to the first position relative to the three-dimensional model. 58. The method of claim 57, further comprising: manipulating the digital model to move the at least one tooth from the first position to a second position; and forming a second guide from the digital model, wherein the second guide is configured to receive the at least one moved tooth and at least one other tooth of the three-dimensional model so as to reposition the at least one tooth to the second position relative to the three-dimensional model. 59. The method of claim 57, further comprising: manipulating the digital model to move at least one additional tooth from an initial position to a first position; and forming a second guide from the digital model, wherein the second guide is configured to receive the at least one additional moved tooth and at least one other tooth of the three-dimensional model so as to reposition the at least one tooth to the first position relative to the three-dimensional model. 60. A method for making a plurality of tooth positioning appliances for repositioning a patient's teeth, the method comprising: providing a series of guide-forming tooth models, based on a series of digital data sets derived from the patient's teeth; forming a series of guides from the guide-forming models; separating at least one tooth from a 3D model of the patient's teeth; placing the at least one tooth in a first guide of the set of guides, wherein the first guide repositions the at least one tooth relative to the rest of the 3D model from an initial position to a first position; securing the at least one tooth to the 3D model in the first intermediate position; forming a first tooth positioning appliance over the 3D model with the at least one tooth in the first position; and repeating the separating, placing, securing and forming steps as many times as desired to provide a plurality of appliances. 