A system and method of identifying the computing architecture used by the mammalian visual system and to implement it in simulations and software algorithms, and in hardware components, is described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-implemented method of object recognition, the method comprising: defining simulated neural circuitry comprising a hierarchy of areas made up of neuronal elements, with each neuronal element comprising a tree of one or more branches, with each of the one or more branches being connected to receive inputs from multiple other neuronal elements, and establishing connectivity of the simulated neural circuitry using sequences of images that shift from moment to moment and represent objects moving through a visual field such that, after the connectivity is established, an image of each object, positioned at any location in that visual field, activates an invariant pattern of activity representing that object in outputs of a highest area of the simulated neural circuitry that corresponds to recognition of a presented object, wherein establishing connectivity comprises, when images of the object presented within a certain window in time trigger inputs to a branch and activate the branch, connections between those temporally correlated inputs and the branch are strengthened, such that in each successively higher area of the hierarchy the image triggers an increasingly invariant pattern of activity. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the use of the simulated neural circuitry for the recognition of presented objects by: presenting an image of an object to the simulated neural circuitry such that a pattern of activity which corresponds to the identity of the presented object is activated in outputs of the highest area of the simulated neural circuitry; and using that pattern of activity in the highest area to recognize the identity of the presented object. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein establishing the connectivity of the simulated neural circuitry comprises: initializing connections between elements of the neural circuitry; and establishing an initial encoding of a visual image in a pattern of activity of outputs of neuronal elements of a lowest area of the simulated neural circuitry. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the images represent movement of the objects between different starting and ending positions. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the images represent rotation of the objects. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the images represent dilation of the objects. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the simulated neural circuitry includes simulated neuronal elements with a tree structure for receipt of input, with each branch entailing local nonlinear integrative properties. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the simulated neural circuitry functions as a self-organizing content addressable memory. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein neuronal elements of the simulated neural circuitry are represented as including multiple branches and are configured such that a neuronal element is activated when a particular branch receives a combination of inputs associated with that branch. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the simulated neural circuitry includes multiple areas, each of which includes multiple neuronal elements. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein each of the areas includes a collection of columns of neuronal elements. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the areas are arranged in a series from a lowest area to a highest area and feedforward is provided from outputs of the neuronal elements of one area to inputs of neuronal elements of a higher area. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the simulated neuronal circuitry further comprises feedback from an area to a lower area. 