A surface inspection system, as well as related components and methods, are provided. The surface inspection system includes a beam source subsystem, a beam scanning subsystem, a workpiece movement subsystem, an optical collection and detection subsystem, and a processing subsystem. The optical collection and detection system features, in the front quartersphere, a light channel assembly for collecting light reflected from the surface of the workpiece, and a front collector and wing collectors for collecting light scattered from the surface, to greatly improve the measurement capabilities of the system. The light channel assembly has a switchable edge exclusion mask and a reflected light detection system for improved detection of the reflected light.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An optical collection system for use in a surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system having an incident beam projected through a back quartersphere and toward a desired location on the surface to impinge thereon to create reflected light, extending along a light channel axis in a front quartersphere, and scattered light, the incident beam and the light channel axis forming an incident plane, the optical collection system comprising: a wing collector positioned to collect a first portion of the scattered light, the wing collector being disposed in the front quartersphere, outside the incident plane, and at a null of a bi-directional reflectance distribution function when the incident beam is P polarized, and at least one of the following collection elements: a light channel collector, positioned in the incident plane to simultaneously receive the reflected light, or a front collector disposed in the front quartersphere and positioned to simultaneously collect a second portion of the scattered light. 2. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, wherein the bidirectional reflectance distribution function has a P-polarization component, and the wing collector is disposed at a null of the P-polarization component of the bidirectional reflectance distribution function when the incident beam is P polarized. 3. An optical collection system as recited in claim 1, wherein the wing collector elevation angle position is dependant on the index of refraction of a workpiece. 4. An optical collection system for use in a surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system having an incident beam projected through a back quartersphere and toward a desired location on the surface of the workpiece to impinge thereon to create reflected light, extending along a light channel axis in a front quartersphere, and scattered light, the incident beam and the light channel axis forming an incident plane, the optical collection system comprising: first wing collector and second wing collector positioned to collect a first portion of scattered light and a second portion of scattered light, the first wing collector and second wing collector being disposed in the front quartersphere, outside the incident plane, and at a null of a bi-directional reflectance distribution function when the incident beam is P polarized; and at least one of the following collection elements: a light channel collector, positioned in the incident plane to simultaneously receive the reflected light, or a front collector disposed in the front quartersphere and positioned to simultaneously collect a third portion of the scattered light. 5. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein the signal comprises a P-polarization component, and at least one of the first wing collector and the second wing collector is disposed at a minimum of P-polarization component of the signal to noise ratio when the incident beam is P polarized. 6. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein the first wing collector and the second collector are substantially identical. 7. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein the first wing collector and the second wing collector are located symmetrically with respect to the incident plane. 8. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein the first wing collector and the second wing collector are equidistant from the desired location. 9. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein the first wing collector has an azimuth angle with respect to the light channel axis of about 5 to 90 degrees, and the second wing collector has an azimuth angle with respect to the light channel axis of about -5 to -90 degrees. 10. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein the first wing collector and the second wing collectors are equidistant from the surface of the workpiece. 11. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein the first wing collector and the second wing collector have elevation angles with respect to the surface of the workpiece of about 30 to 90 degrees. 12. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein the first wing collector and the second wing collector have elevation angles with respect to the surface of the workpiece of about 45 degrees. 13. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, further comprising a detection subsystem operatively coupled to the optical collection subsystem that detects the scattered light and generates signals in response, the detection subsystem having a wing detection component that is associated with each wing collector; and polarizing beam-splitter disposed in an optical path of the scattered light between the desired location and at least one wing detection component. 14. An optical collection system as recited in claim 13, wherein the detection subsystem further comprises a polarizing relay assembly, wherein the polarizing relay assembly comprises a virtual mask. 15. An optical collection system as recited in claim 14, wherein the virtual mask comprises a light absorbing glass mask optically bonded to the polarizing beam-splitter or a black anodized aluminum sheet metal mask positioned at a known optical imagining position in the at least one detection component. 16. An optical collection system as recited in claim 15, further comprising a slit at the Schimempflug angle corresponding to the angle of the wing collector with respect to a workpiece normal, wherein the slit is positioned between objectives lens and the polarizing beam-splitter and wherein the virtual mask is located after the slit. 17. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein the optical collection system comprises a maximum of two wing collectors. 18. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein the one of the following collection elements comprises the light channel collector. 19. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, further comprising a central collector. 20. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, further comprising at least one back collector. 21. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein each of the first and second wing collectors has a collection angle of up to about 40 degrees. 22. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein each of the first and second wing collectors has a collection angle of about 26 degrees. 23. An optical collection system as recited in claim 4, wherein the wing collector elevation angle position is dependant on the index of refraction of a workpiece. 24. A surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system comprising: a scanning beam source for directing an incident beam through a back quartersphere and toward a desired location on the surface of the workpiece at an oblique angle with respect to the surface to impinge thereon to create reflected light, extending along a light channel axis in a front quartersphere, and scattered light, the incident beam and the light channel axis forming an incident plane; a workpiece movement subsystem that moves the workpiece relative to the incident beam; an optical collection subsystem comprising a first wing collector and a second wing collector positioned to collect a first portion of scattered light and a second portion of scattered light, the first wing collector and the second wing collector being disposed in the front quartersphere, outside the incident plane, and at a null of a bi-directional reflectance distribution function when the incident beam is P polarized; and at least one of the following collection elements: a light channel collector, positioned in the incident plane to simultaneously receive the reflected light, or a front collector disposed in the front quartersphere and positioned to simultaneously collect a third portion of the scattered light; a detection subsystem coupled to the optical collection subsystem that detects collector output and generates signals in response; and a processing subsystem operatively coupled to the detection subsystem for processing the signals. 25. A surface inspection system as recited in claim 24, wherein the bidirectional reflectance distribution function has a P-polarization component, and the wing collector is disposed at a null of the P-polarization component of the bidirectional reflectance distribution function when the incident beam is P polarized. 26. A surface inspection system as recited in claim 24, wherein the first wing collector and the second wing elevation angle positions are dependant on the index of refraction of a workpiece. 27. A surface inspection system as recited in claim 24, wherein the detection subsystem further comprises a polarizing relay assembly, wherein the polarizing relay assembly comprises a virtual mask. 28. An optical collection system as recited in claim 27, wherein the virtual mask comprises a light absorbing glass mask optically bonded to the polarizing beam-splitter or a black anodized aluminum sheet metal mask positioned at a known optical imagining position in the at least one detection component. 29. An optical collection system as recited in claim 28, further comprising a slit at the Schimempflug angle corresponding to the angle of the wing collector with respect to a workpiece normal, wherein the slit is positioned between objectives lens and the polarizing beam-splitter and wherein the virtual mask is located after the slit. 30. A method for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the method comprising: scanning an incident beam on the surface of the workpiece to impinge thereon to create reflected light, extending along a light channel axis in a front quartersphere, and scattered light, the incident beam and the light channel axis defining an incident plane; collecting a first portion of the scattered light at a wing collector disposed in the front quartersphere, outside the incident plane, and at a null of a bidirectional reflectance distribution function when the incident beam is P polarized; simultaneously collecting one of the following: a second portion of scattered light at a front collector disposed in the front quartersphere, or the reflected light at a light channel collector positioned in the incident plane to receive the reflected light; detecting collector output and generating signals in response; and processing the signals to obtain information about the surface. 31. A method as recited in claim 30, wherein the bi-directional reflectance distribution function has a P-polarization component, and the wing collector is disposed at a null of the P-polarization component of the bi-directional reflectance distribution function when the incident beam is P polarized. 32. A method as recited in claim 30, wherein the beam scanning comprises directing the incident beam through a back quartersphere and toward the desired location on the surface of the workpiece at an oblique angle with respect to the surface. 33. A method as recited in claim 30, wherein the wing collector elevation angle position is dependant on the index of refraction of a workpiece. 