In a semiconductor fabrication facility, a conveyor transports substrate carriers. The substrate carriers are unloaded from the conveyor and loaded onto the conveyor without stopping the conveyor. A load and/or unload mechanism lifts the substrate carriers from the conveyor during unloading operations, while matching the horizontal speed of the conveyor. Similarly, during loading operations, the load/unload mechanism lowers a substrate carrier into engagement with the conveyor while matching the horizontal speed of the conveyor. Individual substrates, without carriers, may be similarly loaded and/or unloaded from a conveyor.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A substrate transport system comprising: a conveyor adapted to transport a substrate carrier; a precision unload mechanism adapted to unload the substrate carrier from the conveyor while the conveyor is moving the substrate carrier, and at least one sensor adapted to detect a speed of at least one of the conveyor and the substrate carrier as the substrate carrier is being transported by the conveyor. 2. The substrate transport system of claim 1, further comprising: a controller coupled to the precision unload mechanism and adapted to raise the precision unload mechanism while substantially matching a velocity of the precision unload mechanism to a velocity at which the substrate carrier is transported by the conveyor. 3. The substrate transport system of claim 2 wherein the controller is further adapted to cause the precision unload mechanism to contact the substrate carrier with substantially zero or zero velocity in a vertical direction as the substrate carrier is transported by the conveyor. 4. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 2, wherein the conveyor includes a plurality of suspension assemblies, each suspension assembly adapted to suspend a respective substrate carrier from the conveyor. 5. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 4, wherein the precision unload mechanism is adapted to disengage the substrate carrier from one of the suspension assemblies as the precision unload mechanism is raised. 6. The substrate transport system of claim 1 wherein the precision unload mechanism is adapted to contact the substrate carrier with substantially zero or zero velocity in a vertical direction as the substrate carrier is transported by the conveyor. 7. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 2, wherein the precision unload mechanism is adapted to move through a circular path. 8. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 7, wherein the circular path is defined in a vertical plane. 9. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 2, wherein the precision unload mechanism includes a four bar mechanism. 10. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 1, wherein the substrate carrier is a single substrate carrier. 11. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 1, wherein the precision unload mechanism is also adapted to load a substrate carrier onto the conveyor as the conveyor is moving. 12. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 2, wherein the precision unload mechanism is adapted to move in a non-rotary path. 13. A method of operating a substrate carrier transport system, comprising: using a conveyor to move a substrate carrier; using at least one sensor adapted to detect a speed of at least one of the conveyor and the substrate carrier as the substrate carrier is being transported by the conveyor, and while the substrate carrier is moving along the conveyor, precisely unloading the substrate carrier from the conveyor. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein precisely unloading the substrate carrier from the conveyor comprises moving a precision unload mechanism so that at a time when the precision unload mechanism contacts the substrate carrier a velocity of the precision unload member substantially matches a velocity at which the substrate carrier is moving along the conveyor. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the precision unload mechanism contacts the substrate carrier with substantially zero or negative acceleration. 16. The method of claim 13, further comprising, while the conveyor is moving, precisely loading a substrate carrier onto the conveyor. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein precisely loading the substrate carrier onto the conveyor comprises moving a precision load mechanism so that at a time when a substrate carrier being transported by the precision load mechanism contacts the conveyor, a velocity of the substrate carrier substantially matches a velocity at which the conveyor is moving. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the substrate carrier contacts the conveyor with substantially zero or negative acceleration. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein a single mechanism functions as the precision load mechanism and the precision unload mechanism. 20. The method of claim 13, further comprising moving the substrate carrier in a semi-circular path after the substrate carrier is disengaged from the conveyor. 