A method of transplanting a hair follicular units includes aligning a longitudinal axis of a harvesting cannula of a tool assembly with a longitudinal axis of a selected follicular unit, advancing the harvesting cannula relative to the body surface so that a tissue coring distal end of the harvesting cannula penetrates the body surface surrounding the selected follicular unit to a depth sufficient to substantially encapsulate the follicular unit, withdrawing the harvesting cannula distal end from the body surface with the follicular unit retained in an interior lumen of the harvesting cannula, advancing an implanting cannula of the tool assembly over the harvesting cannula relative to the body surface so that a tissue piercing distal end of the implanting cannula punctures the body surface and forms an implantation cavity therein, and displacing the follicular unit from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implantation cavity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of transplanting a hair follicular unit using a multi-part tool assembly, the tool assembly comprising coaxially disposed harvesting and implanting cannulas, the method comprising: positioning the harvesting cannula in proximity of a selected follicular unit to be harvested from a donor area of a body surface; advancing the harvesting cannula relative to the donor area of the body surface so that an open, tissue coring distal end of the harvesting cannula penetrates the body surface surrounding the selected follicular unit to a depth sufficient to substantially encapsulate the follicular unit; withdrawing the harvesting cannula from the body surface with the follicular unit engaged by and retained in an interior lumen of the harvesting cannula; advancing a tissue piercing end of the implanting cannula over the harvesting cannula to puncture a recipient area in the body surface and to form an implantation cavity therein; and displacing the follicular unit from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implantation cavity. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the tool assembly is attached to a moveable arm of an automated system. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the automated system is a robotic system, and the moveable arm is a robotic arm. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein advancing the distal end of the harvesting cannula into the body surface comprises rotating harvesting cannula about its longitudinal axis. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the follicular unit is displaced from the harvesting cannula lumen by an obturator positioned in the harvesting cannula lumen. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the follicular unit is displaced from the harvesting cannula lumen by pressurized air. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the harvesting and implanting cannulas is advanced into the body surface by actuating one or more motors of a motor drive assembly operatively coupled to the tool assembly to thereby cause translational movement of the respective harvesting or implanting cannula relative to the other. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the motor drive assembly is processor-controlled. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the processor determines relative positions of the harvesting and implanting cannulas based at least in part on image data received from one or more cameras. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the processor determines relative positions of the harvesting and implanting cannulas based at least in pail on positional data received from one or more encoders operatively associated with the motor drive assembly. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein displacing the follicular unit from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implantation cavity comprises advancing an obturator positioned in the harvesting cannula lumen relative to the harvesting cannula so as to displace the follicular unit from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implantation cavity within the lumen of the implanting cannula, and withdrawing the distal end of the implanting cannula from the implantation cavity while the obturator retains the follicular unit therein. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein displacing the follicular unit from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implantation cavity comprises advancing the harvesting cannula relative to the implanting cannula so that their respective distal ends are approximately coextensive in the implantation cavity, and retaining the follicular unit in the implantation cavity, while withdrawing each of the harvesting and implanting cannulas from the implantation cavity. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the follicular unit is retained in the implantation cavity by an obturator positioned in the harvesting cannula lumen. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein advancing the harvesting cannula relative to the body surface is performed by one or more of (1) movement of the harvesting cannula relative to the tool assembly, (2) movement of an operator's arm, (3) movement of an automated arm to which the harvesting cannula may be attached, or (4) movement of the harvesting cannula relative to the automated arm to which the harvesting cannula may be attached. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising placing the harvesting cannula lumen in communication with a source of negative pressure to help extract retain the follicular unit therein. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the tool assembly further comprises a force sensor, and wherein the method further comprises stopping operation of one or both of the harvesting and implanting cannulas if a force sensed by the force sensor exceeds a prescribed limit. 17. A method of transplanting a hair follicular unit using a multi-part tool assembly carried on a moveable arm of an automated system, the tool assembly comprising coaxially disposed harvesting and implanting cannulas, the method comprising: positioning the moveable arm so as to place the harvesting cannula in proximity with a selected follicular unit to be harvested from a donor area; advancing the harvesting cannula relative to the donor area so that an open, tissue coring distal end of the harvesting cannula penetrates a surface surrounding the selected follicular unit to a depth sufficient to substantially encapsulate the follicular unit, and when harvesting, a tissue-piercing distal end of the implanting cannula is located proximal to the distal end of the harvesting cannula; withdrawing the harvesting cannula from the donor area with the follicular unit engaged by and retained in an interior lumen of the harvesting cannula; positioning the moveable arm so that the tissue-piercing distal end of the implanting cannula is located adjacent a recipient area in a body surface; advancing the tissue piercing distal end of the implanting cannula to puncture the recipient area of the body surface and form an implantation cavity therein; and displacing the follicular unit from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implantation cavity. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein placing the harvesting cannula in proximity with the selected follicular unit comprises aligning a longitudinal axis of the harvesting cannula with a longitudinal axis of the selected follicular unit. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the automated system is a robotic system, and the moveable arm is a robotic arm. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein at least one of the harvesting and implanting cannulas is advanced by actuating one or more motors configured to move the at least one of the harvesting and implanting cannulas relative to the moveable arm, the one or more motors further configured to cause translational movement of the respective harvesting or implanting cannula relative to the other. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein operation of one or more motors is processor-controlled. 22. The method of claim 17, further comprising tracking a relative movement of the implanting and harvesting cannulas. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein advancing the distal end of the harvesting cannula relative to the donor area comprises rotating the harvesting cannula about its longitudinal axis. 24. The method of claim 17, wherein the follicular unit is displaced from the harvesting cannula lumen by an obturator positioned in the harvesting cannula lumen. 25. The method of claim 17, wherein the follicular unit is displaced from the harvesting cannula lumen by pressurized air. 26. The method of claim 17, wherein displacing the follicular unit from the harvesting caimula lumen into the implantation cavity takes place before, during, or after the implanting cannula punctures the recipient area surface. 27. The method of claim 17, wherein the automated system further comprises a force sensor, and wherein the method further comprises stopping operation of one or both of the harvesting and implanting cannulas if a force sensed from the force sensor exceeds a prescribed limit. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein stopping operation of one or both of the harvesting and implanting cannulas is controlled by control circuitry. 29. A method of transplanting a hair follicular unit using a tool assembly comprising coaxially disposed harvesting and implanting cannulas and an automated positioning system operatively coupled to the cannulas, the method comprising: aligning the harvesting cannula of the tool assembly with a selected follicular unit to be harvested from a donor area of a body surface; advancing the harvesting cannula relative to the donor area so that an open, tissue coring distal end of the harvesting cannula penetrates the surface surrounding the selected follicular unit to a depth sufficient to substantially encapsulate the follicular unit, and when harvesting, a tissue-piercing distal end of the implanting cannula is located proximal to the distal end of the harvesting cannula; withdrawing the harvesting cannula distal end from the donor area with the follicular unit engaged by and retained in an interior lumen of the harvesting cannula; advancing the implanting cannula of the tool assembly relative to a recipient area of the body surface so that the tissue piercing distal end of the implanting cannula punctures the body surface and forms an implantation cavity therein; and displacing the follicular unit from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implantation cavity using an obturator slidably positioned in the harvesting cannula lumen, wherein at least one of the harvesting and implanting cannula is advanced by actuating one or more motors of the automated positioning system to cause translational movement of the respective harvesting or implanting cannula relative to the other. 