A web printer for printing patterns on continuous print media the web printer comprising a cabinet one or more print media cartridges mounted in a releasable manner within the cabinet and each carrying a wound length of print media one or more ink reservoirs mounted in a releasable manner within the cabinet and each storing ink to be printed a data capture device configured to capture the identity of an identifier carried by a printed sample and a stationary printhead mounted within the cabinet to extend transverse to the print media and configured to print a pattern upon the print media with the ink subsequent to the capture of the identity of the printed sample whereby the printed pattern corresponds to the printed sample.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A web printer for printing patterns on continuous print media, the web printer comprising: a cabinet; one or more print media cartridges mounted, in a releasable manner, within the cabinet and each carrying a wound length of print media; one or more ink reservoirs mounted, in a releasable manner, within the cabinet and each storing ink to be printed; a data capture device configured to capture the identity of identifiers carried by a printed collection of patterns, the printed identifiers uniquely identifying each pattern of the collection; a processor storing the collection of patterns in digital form, each stored pattern being identified by said identities; and a stationary printhead mounted within the cabinet to extend transverse to the print media, and configured to receive patterns from the processor for printing and to print a pattern upon the print media with the ink corresponding to the pattern having the identity captured by the data capture device. 2. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data capture device comprises a barcode scanner which is tethered to the cabinet and the identifier comprises a barcode which can be read by the barcode scanner. 3. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data capture device comprises a touch screen display so that a user can enter the identity in the form of a visible alphanumeric code borne by the identifier. 4. A web printer as claimed in claim 3, wherein the touch screen display is pivotally mounted with respect to the cabinet so that the touch screen can be tilted by the user. 5. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet defines a slot through which the printed print media is dispensed and the web printer further comprises a transverse knife located within the cabinet which can be used to separate the dispensed print media from the remaining wound length of print media. 6. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet defines an upper vent area to facilitate discharge of moist or heated air from within the cabinet. 7. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet defines a winding well and the web printer further comprises a pair of opposed spindles located in the well operatively to engage with a former upon which the printed print media can be wound, the web printer further comprising a motor for driving at least one of the spindles. 8. A web printer as claimed in claim 7, further comprising a tape dispenser configured to dispense a portion of adhesive tape by which the printed print media can be affixed to the former. 