An apparatus for assisting in body movement includes a framework which is connectable with a human body and an elastic force transmission system connected with the framework. The elastic force transmission system stores energy during a first portion of movement of the human body and releases the stored energy during a second portion of the movement of the human body. The elastic force transmission system includes an elongated force transmission component which is resiliently extendable under the influence of force transmitted through the framework. Although the apparatus can be used in association with any desired portion of the human body, it may be particularly advantageous to use the apparatus in association with one or both legs of the human body.
Claims Having described the invention, the following is claimed: 1. An apparatus for use in assisting movement of a leg in a human body, said apparatus comprising a framework which includes a plurality of frame members that are connected with each other at a plurality of frame joints, said plurality of frame members including a first frame member which is connected with a second frame member at a first frame joint of said plurality of frame joints, said first frame member being connectable with a pelvic portion of the human body, said second frame member being disposed along a femoral portion of the leg of the human body, said first frame joint being disposed adjacent to a hip joint associated with the pelvic portion of the human body and the femoral portion of the leg of the human body, a third frame member of said plurality of frame members being disposed along a tibial portion of the leg of the human body, said third frame member being connected with said second frame member at a second frame joint of said plurality of frame joints, said second frame joint being disposed adjacent to a knee joint in the leg of the human body, a fourth frame member of said plurality of frame members being connectable with a foot portion of the leg of the human body, said fourth frame member being connected with said third frame member at a third frame joint of said plurality of frame joints, said third frame joint being disposed adjacent to an ankle joint in the leg of the human body, and an elastic force transmission system connected with said framework to store energy during a first portion of movement of the leg of the human body and for releasing energy during a second portion of movement of the leg of the human body, said elastic force transmission system spans the hip, knee and ankle joints in the human body, said elastic force transmission system has a first anchor portion connected with said first frame member and a second anchor portion connected with said fourth frame member. 2. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said elastic force transmission system includes an elongated force transmission component which extends along said second and third frame members, a first portion of said elongated force transmission component being offset in an anterior direction from an axis extending through the first frame joint, a second portion of said elongated force transmission component being offset in a posterior direction from an axis extending through said third frame joint, said elongated force transmission component being resiliently extendable under the influence of force transmitted through said framework to said elongated force transmission component during the first portion of movement of the leg of the human body, said elongated force transmission component being resiliently contractible to transmit force from said elongated force transmission component to said framework during the second portion of movement of the leg of the human body. 3. An apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein elongated force transmission component is integrally formed as one piece. 4. An apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said elongated force transmission component includes a plurality of pieces which are interconnected. 5. An apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said elastic force transmission system includes a first rotatable member which is connected with said framework adjacent to said first frame joint, a second rotatable member which is connected with said framework adjacent to said second frame joint, and a third rotatable member which is connected to said framework adjacent to said third frame joint, said first portion of said elongated force transmission component being disposed in engagement with and being effective to rotate said first rotatable member during at least a portion of the resilient extension and contraction of said elongated force transmission component, said first portion of said elongated force transmission component being disposed in engagement with and being effective to rotate said second rotatable member during at least a portion of the resilient extension and contraction of said elongated force transmission component, said second portion of said elongated force transmission component being disposed in engagement with and being effective to rotate said third rotatable member during at least a portion of the resilient extension and contraction of said elongated force transmission component. 6. An apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said force transmission system includes a first member which is connected with said framework adjacent to said first frame joint, said first member has a first arcuate surface which engages said first portion of said elongated force transmission component and which has a first radius of curvature, a second member which is connected with said framework adjacent to said second frame joint, said second member has a second arcuate surface which engages said first portion of said elongated force transmission component and which has a second radius of curvature which is smaller than said first radius of curvature, a third member which is connected with said framework adjacent to said third frame joint, said third member has a third arcuate surface which engages said second portion of said elongated force transmission component and which has a third radius of curvature which is larger than said first radius of curvature. 7. An apparatus as set forth in claim 6 wherein said first, second and third members are pulleys which are rotatable relative to said framework during extension and contraction of said elongated force transmission component. 8. An apparatus as set forth in claim 6 wherein said elastic force transmission system has a stiffness of k, said first arcuate surface has a radius of r.sub.1, said second arcuate surface has a radius of r.sub.2, and said third arcuate surface has a radius of r.sub.3, said first and third arcuate surfaces being sized such that the product of (r.sub.1)(r.sub.3)(k) is equal to between 51 and 95 Newton meters. 9. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further including a plurality of motors which are connected with said framework to provide force which assists in movement of the leg in the human body. 10. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said elastic force transmission system includes a band which is formed of elastomeric material and is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework. 11. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said elastic force transmission system includes a metal spring which is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework. 12. An apparatus as set forth in claim 11 wherein said elastic force transmission system includes a cable connected with said metal spring. 13. An apparatus for use in assisting movement of a leg in a human body, said apparatus comprising a framework which is connectable with the leg in the human body, and an elastic force transmission system connected with said framework to store energy during a first portion of the movement of the leg and for releasing energy during a second portion of the movement of the leg, said elastic force transmission system has a stiffness of k, said elastic force transmission system includes a plurality of rotatable members which are connected with said framework, said plurality of rotatable members includes a first member having a first arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.1, a second member having a second arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.2, and a third member having a third arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.3, and an elongated force transmission component which is connected with said framework and engages said arcuate surfaces on said first second, and third rotatable members, said first and third arcuate surfaces being sized such that the product of (r.sub.1)(r.sub.3)(k) is equal to between 51 and 91 Newton meters. 14. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said radius r.sub.1 of said first arcuate surface is larger than said radius r.sub.2 of said second arcuate surface and is smaller than said radius r.sub.3 of said third arcuate surface. 15. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said elongated force transmission component engages portions of said first and second arcuate surfaces which are offset in a first direction from axes about which said first and second members are rotatable, said elongated force transmission component engages a portion of said third arcuate surface which is offset in a second direction from an axis about which said third member rotates. 16. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 further including a plurality of motors connected with said framework to provide force which assists in movement of the human body. 17. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein each of said rotatable members is a circular pulley which is rotatable under the influence of force transmitted from said elongated force transmission component. 18. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said elongated force transmission component is at least partially formed of elastomeric material which is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework. 19. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said elongated force transmission component includes a metal spring which is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework during the first portion of movement of the leg. 20. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said elongated force transmission component includes a metal cable which is connected with a spring. 21. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said framework includes a plurality of frame members and a plurality of frame joints which interconnect said frame members and which are disposed adjacent to joints in the leg. 22. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said first arcuate surface has a radius r.sub.1 of between fifteen and twenty-seven millimeters and said third arcuate surface has a radius r.sub.3 of between twenty-four millimeters and forty-five millimeters. 23. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said elastic force transmission system has a stiffness (k) of approximately one hundred thousand Newtons per meter, said first member has a radius (r.sub.1) of approximately twenty-one millimeters, and said third member has a radius of approximately thirty-five millimeters. 24. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said elongated force transmission component has a first and second end portions which are connected with said framework. 25. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 further including a second framework which is connectable with a second leg in the human body, and a second elastic force transmission system connected with said second framework to store energy during a first portion of the movement of the second leg and for releasing energy during a second portion of the movement of the second leg, said second elastic force transmission system has a stiffness of k.sub.2, said second elastic force transmission system includes a second plurality of rotatable members which are connected with said second framework, said second plurality of rotatable members includes a fourth member having a fourth arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.4, a fifth member having a fifth arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.5, and a sixth member having a sixth arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.6, and a second elongated force transmission component which is connected with said second framework and engages said arcuate surfaces on said fourth, fifth, and sixth rotatable members, said fourth and sixth arcuate surfaces being sized such that the product of (r.sub.4)(r.sub.6)(k.sub.2) is equal to between 51 and 91 Newton meters. 26. An apparatus for use in assisting in movement of first and second legs in a human body, said apparatus comprising a framework which includes a plurality of frame members that are connected with each other at a plurality of frame joints, said plurality of frame members including a first frame member which is connectable with a pelvic portion of the human body, a second frame member which extends along a femoral portion of the first leg of the human body, said first and second frame members being interconnected by a first frame joint which is disposed adjacent to a first hip joint associated with the pelvic portion of the human body and the femoral portion of the first leg of the human body, a third frame member which extends along a tibial portion of the first leg of the human body, said second and third frame members being interconnected by a second frame joint which is disposed adjacent to a knee joint in the first leg of the human body, a fourth frame member which is connectable with a foot portion of the first leg of the human body, said third and fourth frame members being interconnected by a third frame joint which is disposed adjacent to an ankle joint in the first leg of the human body, a fifth frame member which extends along a femoral portion of the second leg of the human body, said first and fifth frame members being interconnected by a fourth frame joint which is disposed adjacent to a second hip joint associated with the pelvic portion of the human body and the femoral portion of the second leg of the human body, a sixth frame member which extends along a tibial portion of the second leg of the human body, said fifth and sixth frame members being interconnected by a fifth frame joint which is disposed adjacent to a knee joint in the second leg of the human body, and a seventh frame member which is connectable with a foot portion of the second leg of the human body, said sixth and seventh frame members being interconnected by a sixth frame joint which is disposed adjacent to an ankle joint in the second leg of the human body, and first and second elastic force transmission systems connected with said framework to store energy and to release energy during movement of the first and second legs of the human body, said first elastic force transmission system includes a plurality of rotatable members which are connected with said framework, said plurality of rotatable members includes a first rotatable member which is disposed adjacent to said first frame joint, a second rotatable member which is disposed adjacent to said second frame joint, and a third rotatable member which is disposed adjacent to said third frame joint, said second elastic force transmission system includes a fourth rotatable member which is disposed adjacent to said fourth frame joint, a fifth rotatable member which is disposed adjacent to said fifth frame joint, and a sixth rotatable member which is disposed adjacent to said sixth frame joint, said first elastic force transmission system includes a first elongated force transmission component which is connected with said frame work and engages arcuate surfaces on said first, second and third rotatable members, said second elastic force transmission system includes a second elongated force transmission component which is connected with said framework and engages arcuate surfaces on said fourth, fifth and sixth rotatable members. 27. An apparatus as set forth in claim 26 wherein said first elongated force transmission component includes a first portion which engages said arcuate surface on said first rotatable member and is offset in an anterior direction relative to the human body from an axis about which said first rotatable member rotates, said first elongated force transmission component includes a second potion which engages said arcuate surface on said second rotatable member and is offset in an anterior direction relative to the human body from an axis about which said second rotatable member rotates, said first elongated force transmission component includes a third portion which engages said arcuate surface on said third rotatable member and is offset in a posterior direction relative to the human body from an axis about which said third rotatable member rotates, said second elongated force transmission component includes a first portion which engages said arcuate surface on said fourth rotatable member and is offset in an anterior direction relative to the human body from an axis about which said fourth rotatable member rotates, said second elongated force transmission component includes a second portion which engages said arcuate surface on said fifth rotatable member and is offset in an anterior direction relative to the human body from an axis about which said fifth rotatable member rotates, said second elongated force transmission component includes a third portion which engages said arcuate surface on said sixth rotatable member and is offset in a posterior direction relative to the human body from an axis about which said sixth rotatable member rotates. 28. An apparatus as set forth in claim 26 wherein said first elongated force transmission component has a first end portion which is connected to said first frame member and a second end portion which is connected to said fourth frame member, said second elongated force transmission component has a first end portion which is connected to said first frame member and a second end portion which is connected to said seventh frame member. 29. An apparatus as set forth in claim 26 wherein said first elongated force transmission component has a first end portion which is connected to said fourth frame member and a second end portion which is connected to said seventh frame member, said second elongated force transmission component has a first end portion connected to said seventh frame member and a second end portion connected to said fourth frame member. 30. An apparatus as set forth in claim 26 wherein said first rotatable member has an arcuate surface which has a first radius and engages a first portion of said first elongated force transmission component, said second rotatable member has an arcuate surface which has a second radius and engages a second portion of said first elongated force transmission component, said third rotatable member has an arcuate surface which has a third radius and engages a third portion of said first elongated force transmission component, said first radius being larger than said second radius and smaller than said third radius, said fourth rotatable member has an arcuate surface which has a fourth radius and engages a first portion of said second elongated force transmission component, said fifth rotatable member has an arcuate surface which has a fifth radius and engages a second portion of said second elongated force transmission component, said sixth rotatable member has an arcuate surface which has a sixth radius and engages a third portion of said second elongated force transmission component, said fourth radius being larger than said fifth radius and smaller than said sixth radius. 31. An apparatus as set forth in claim 26 wherein said first elongated force transmission component includes a first band which is formed of elastomeric material and is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework, said second elongated force transmission component includes a second band which is formed of elastomeric material and is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework. 32. An apparatus as set forth in claim 26 wherein said first and second elongated force transmission components include a single band of elastomeric material which extends across said first frame member and engages said first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth rotatable members. 33. An apparatus as set forth in claim 26 wherein said first elongated force transmission component includes a first metal spring which is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework, said second elongated force transmission component includes a second metal spring which is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework. 34. An apparatus as set forth in claim 33 wherein said first elongated force transmission component includes a first cable which is connected with said first spring and said second elongated force transmission component includes a second cable which is connected with said second spring. 35. An apparatus as set forth in claim 26 further including a plurality of motors connected with said framework to provide force which assists in movement of the human body. 36. An apparatus as set forth in claim 26 wherein said first rotatable member has a first arcuate surface which engages a first portion of said first elongated force transmission component and has a first radius (r.sub.1), said second rotatable member has a second arcuate surface which engages a second portion of said first elongated force transmission component and has a second radius (r.sub.2), said third rotatable member has a third arcuate surface which engages a third portion of said first elongated force transmission component and has a third radius (r.sub.3), said first elastic force transmission system has a first stiffness if K.sub.1, said first and third arcuate surfaces being sized such that the product of (r.sub.1)(r.sub.3)(k.sub.1) is equal to between 51 and 91 Newton meters, said fourth rotatable member has a fourth arcuate surface which engages a first portion of said second elongated force transmission component and has a fourth radius (r.sub.4), said fifth rotatable member has a fifth arcuate surface which engages a second portion of said second elongated force transmission component and has a fifth radius (r.sub.5), said sixth rotatable member has a sixth arcuate surface which engages a third portion of said second elongated force transmission component and has a sixth radius (r.sub.6), said second elastic force transmission system has a second stiffness of K.sub.2, said fourth and sixth arcuate surfaces being sized such that the product of (r.sub.4)(r.sub.6)(k.sub.2) is equal to between 51 and 91 Newton meters. 37. An apparatus for use in assisting human body movement, said apparatus comprising a framework which includes a plurality of frame members which are connected with each other at a plurality of frame joints, said plurality of frame members being connectable with the human body with said frame joints adjacent to joints in the human body, and an elastic force transmission system connected with said frame members to store energy during a first portion of the movement of the human body and for releasing the stored energy during a second portion of the movement of the human body, said elastic force transmission system includes an elongated force transmission component which extends along said framework, said elongated force transmission component being resiliently extendable under the influence of force transmitted through said framework to said elongated force transmission component during the first portion of the movement of the human body, said elongated force transmission component being resiliently contractible to transmit force from said elongated force transmission component to said framework during the second portion of the movement of the human body, said elastic force transmission system includes a first pulley having an arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.1 and disposed adjacent to a first frame joint of said plurality of frame joints, a second pulley having an arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.2 and disposed adjacent to a second frame joint of said plurality of frame joints, and a third pulley having an arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.3, said first, second and third pulleys being connected with and rotatable relative to said framework, said elastic force transmission system having a stiffness of k, said first and third arcuate surfaces being sized such that the product of (r.sub.1)(r.sub.3)(k) is equal to between 51 and 95 Newton meters, said elongated force transmission component being disposed in engagement with said arcuate surfaces on said first, second and third pulleys. 38. An apparatus as set forth in claim 37 wherein said first pulley is disposed adjacent to a first frame joint which connects a first frame member with a second frame member, said first frame member being connectable with a pelvic portion of the human body and said second frame member being disposed adjacent to a femoral portion of the human body, said first and second frame members being interconnected by said first frame joint, said first frame joint and said first pulley being disposed adjacent to a hip joint in the human body when said first frame member is connected with the pelvic portion of the human body and said second frame member is disposed adjacent to the femoral portion of the human body, said second pulley is disposed adjacent to a second frame joint which connects said second frame member with a third frame member, said third frame member being disposed adjacent to a tibial portion of the human body, said second and third frame members being interconnected by a second frame joint of said plurality of frame joints, said second frame joint and said second pulley being disposed adjacent to a knee joint in the human body when said second frame member is adjacent to the femoral portion of the human body and said third frame member is adjacent to the tibial portion of the human body, said third pulley is disposed adjacent to said third frame joint which connects said third frame member with said fourth frame member, said fourth frame member being connectable with a foot portion of the human body, said third and fourth frame members being interconnected by a third frame joint of said plurality of frame joints, said third frame joint and said third pulley being disposed adjacent to an ankle joint in the human body when said third frame member is adjacent to the tibial portion of the human body and said fourth frame member is connected with the foot portion of the human body. 39. An apparatus as set forth in claim 37 wherein said elongated force transmission component includes a band which is formed of elastomeric material and is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework. 40. An apparatus as set forth in claim 37 wherein said elongated force transmission component includes a metal spring which is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework. 41. An apparatus as set forth in claim 40 wherein said elongated force transmission component includes a cable connected with said metal spring. 42. An apparatus as set forth in claim 37 wherein said frame members are connected with a first limb of the human body, said framework further includes a second plurality of frame members which are connected with each other at a second plurality of frame joints, said elongated elastic force transmission component extends along said second plurality of frame members, said elongated force transmission component being resiliently extendable under the influence of force transmitted from the human body through said second frame members to said elongated force transmission component during movement of the human body. 43. An apparatus as set forth in claim 37 wherein said radius r.sub.1 of said arcuate surface on said first pulley is larger than said radius r.sub.2 of said arcuate surface on said second pulley and is smaller than said radius r.sub.3 of said arcuate surface on said third pulley. 44. An apparatus as set forth in claim 37 wherein said elongate force transmission component engages portions of the arcuate surfaces on said first and second pulleys which are offset in a first direction from axes about which said first and second pulleys rotate, said elongated force transmission component engages a portion of the arcuate surface on said third pulley which is offset in a second direction from an axis about which said third pulley rotates. 45. An apparatus for use in assisting human body movement, said apparatus comprising a framework which includes a plurality of frame members which are connected with each other at a plurality of frame joints, said plurality of frame members being connectable with the human body with said frame joints adjacent to joints in the human body, an elastic force transmission system connected with said frame members to store energy during a first portion of the movement of the human body and for releasing the stored energy during a second portion of the movement of the human body, said elastic force transmission system includes an elongated force transmission component which extends along said framework, said elongated force transmission component being resiliently extendable under the influence of force transmitted through said framework to said elongated force transmission component during the first portion of the movement of the human body, said elongated force transmission component being resiliently contractible to transmit force from said elongated force transmission component to said framework during the second portion of the movement of the human body, said elongated force transmission component spans at least three joints in the human body, a first deflector disposed adjacent to a first frame joint which connects a first frame member with a second frame member, said first frame member being connectable with a pelvic portion of the human body and said second frame member being disposed adjacent to a femoral portion of the human body, said first and second frame members being interconnected by said first frame joint, said first frame joint and said first deflector being disposed adjacent to a hip joint in the human body when said first frame member is connected with the pelvic portion of the human body and said second frame member is disposed adjacent to the femoral portion of the human body, said first deflector being disposed in engagement with said elongated force transmission component at a location adjacent to the hip joint in the human body when said first frame member is connected with the pelvic portion of the human body and said second frame member is disposed adjacent to the femeral portion of the human body, a second deflector is disposed adjacent to a second frame joint which connects said second frame member with a third frame member, said third frame member being disposed adjacent to a tibial portion of the human body, said second frame joint and said second deflector being disposed adjacent to a knee joint in the human body when said second frame member is adjacent to the femoral portion of the human body and said third frame member is adjacent to the tibial portion of the human body, said second deflector being disposed in engagement with said elongated force transmission component at a location adjacent to the knee joint in the human body when said second frame member is disposed adjacent to the femoral portion of the human body and said third frame member is disposed adjacent to the tibial portion of the human body, and a third deflector is disposed adjacent to a third frame joint which connects said third frame member with a fourth frame member, said fourth frame member being connectable with a foot portion of the human body, said third frame joint and said third deflector being disposed adjacent to an ankle joint in the human body when said third frame member is adjacent to the tibial portion of the human body and said fourth frame member is connected with the foot portion of the human body, said third deflector being disposed in engagement with said elongated force transmission component at a location adjacent to the ankle joint in the human body when said third frame member is disposed adjacent to the tibial portion of the human body and said fourth frame member is connected with the foot portion of the human body. 46. An apparatus as set forth in claim 45 wherein each deflector of said plurality of deflectors includes a circular pulley which is rotatable under the influence of force transmitted to said pulley from said elongated force transmission component. 47. An apparatus as set forth in claim 45 wherein said elongated force transmission component includes a band which is formed of elastomeric material and is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework. 48. An apparatus as set forth in claim 45 wherein said elongated force transmission component includes a metal spring which is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework. 49. An apparatus as set forth in claim 48 wherein said elongated force transmission component includes a cable connected with said metal spring. 50. An apparatus as set fourth in claim 45 wherein said first deflector is a first pulley having an arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.1 and is rotatably disposed adjacent to said first frame joint, said second deflector is a second pulley having an arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.2 and is rotatably disposed adjacent to said second frame joint, and said third deflector is a third pulley having an arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.3, and is rotatably disposed adjacent to said third frame joint, said elastic force transmission system having a stiffness of k, said first and third arcuate surfaces being sized such that the product of (r.sub.1)(r.sub.3)(k) is equal to between 51 and 95 Newton meters. 51. An apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said radius r.sub.1 of said arcuate surface on said first pulley is larger than said radius r.sub.2 of said arcuate surface on said second pulley and is smaller than said radius r.sub.3 of said arcuate surface on said third pulley. 52. An apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said elongate force transmission component engages portions of the arcuate surfaces on said first and second pulleys which are offset in a first direction from axes about which said first and second pulleys rotate, said elongated force transmission component engages a portion of the arcuate surface on said third pulley which is offset in a second direction from an axis about which said third pulley rotates. 53. An apparatus as set forth in claim 45 further including a plurality of motors connected with said framework to provide force which assists in movement of the human body. 54. An apparatus an apparatus as set forth in claim 45 further including means for connecting said second frame member with the femoral portion of the human body and means for connecting said third frame member with the tibial portion of the human body. 55. An apparatus as set forth in claim 45 wherein said elongated force transmission component includes a band which is formed of elastomeric material and is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework. 56. An apparatus as set forth in claim 45 wherein said elongated force transmission component includes a metal spring which is resiliently extended under the influence of force transmitted from said framework. 57. An apparatus as set forth in claim 56 wherein said elongated force transmission component includes a cable connected with said metal spring. 58. An apparatus as set forth in claim 45 wherein said elastic force transmission system includes a plurality of pulleys which are rotatably mounted on said framework and are engaged by said elongated force transmission component. 59. An apparatus as set forth in claim 45 wherein said frame members are adapted to be connected with a first limb of the human body, said framework further includes a second plurality of frame members which are connected with each other at a second plurality of frame joints, said elongated elastic force transmission component extends along said second plurality of frame members, said elongated force transmission component being resiliently extendable under the influence of force transmitted from the human body through said second frame members to said elongated force transmission component during movement of the human body. 60. An apparatus as set fourth in claim 45 wherein said elastic force transmission system includes a first arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.1 and disposed adjacent to a first frame joint of said plurality of frame joints, a second arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.2 and disposed adjacent to a second frame joint of said plurality of frame joints, and a third arcuate surface with a radius of r.sub.3, said first, second and third arcuate surfaces being connected with said framework, said elastic force transmission system having a stiffness of k, said first and third arcuate surfaces being sized such that the product of (r.sub.1)(r.sub.3)(k) is equal to between 51 and 95 Newton meters, said elongated force transmission component being disposed in engagement with said first, second and third arcuate surfaces. 61. An apparatus as set forth in claim 60 wherein said radius r.sub.1 of said first arcuate surface is larger than said radius r.sub.2 of said second arcuate surface and is smaller than said radius r.sub.3 of said third arcuate surface. 62. An apparatus as set forth in claim 60 wherein said elongated force transmission component engages a portion of said first arcuate surface which is on offset in a first direction from an axis through said first frame joint, said elongated force transmission component engages a portion of said second arcuate surface which is offset in the first direction from an axis through said second frame joint, said elongated force transmission component engages a portion of said third arcuate surface which is offset in a second direction from an axis through said third frame joint. 