A method of characterizing the biological activity of a candidate compound may include exposing cells to the candidate compound, and then exposing the cells to a repetitive application of electric fields so as to set the transmembrane potential to a level corresponding to a pre-selected voltage dependent state of a target ion channel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of assaying a compound for voltage-dependent blocking activity against a target ion channel comprising: a. selecting a cell line having a normal resting transmembrane potential corresponding to a selected voltage dependent state of said target ion channel; b. expressing said target ion channel in a population of cells of said selected cell line; c. exposing said population of cells to said compound; d. repetitively applying biphasic electric field pulses produced with extracellular electrodes to said population of cells, wherein said pulses have a maximum amplitude of less than approximately 90 V/cm, wherein said pulses are applied at a rate of at least about 1 per second, and wherein the total duration of each pulse is at least about 1 millisecond so as to effect a controlled change in the transmembrane potential of said population of cells; and e. monitoring changes in the transmembrane potential of said population of cells. 2. A method of assaying a compound for voltage-dependent blocking activity against a target ion channel comprising: selecting a cell line having a normal resting transmembrane potential corresponding to a selected voltage dependent state of said target ion channel; expressing said target ion channel in a population of cells of said selected cell line, wherein said target ion channel is exogenously expressed in said cell line; exposing said population of cells to said compound; repetitively applying biphasic electric field pulses produced with extracellular electrodes to said population of cells, wherein said pulses have a maximum amplitude of less than approximately 90 V/cm, wherein said pulses are applied at a rate of at least about 1 per second, and wherein the total duration of each pulse is at least about 1 millisecond so as to effect a controlled change in the transmembrane potential of said population of cells; and monitoring changes in the transmembrane potential of said population of cells. 3. A method of assaying a compound for voltage-dependent blocking activity against a target ion channel comprising: selecting a cell line having a normal resting transmembrane potential corresponding to a selected voltage dependent state of said target ion channel, wherein said cell line is transfected with nucleic acid encoding said target ion channel; expressing said target ion channel in a population of cells of said selected cell line; exposing said population of cells to said compound; repetitively applying biphasic electric field pulses produced with extracellular electrodes to said population of cells, wherein said pulses have a maximum amplitude of less than approximately 90 V/cm, wherein said pulses are applied at a rate of at least about 1 per second, and wherein the total duration of each pulse is at least about 1 millisecond so as to effect a controlled change in the transmembrane potential of said population of cells; and monitoring changes in the transmembrane potential of said population of cells. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said cell line expresses insignificant levels of other ion channels. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said cell line is selected from the group consisting of CHL, LTK(-), and CHO-K1. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said biphasic electric field is a square wave kernel of about 5 msec per phase. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said pulses have a maximum amplitude of about 25 V/cm. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said pulses are applied at a rate of about 20 per second. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said total duration is of about three seconds. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein exposing said population of cells to said compound is performed before applying said electric field pulses. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein applying said electric field pulses is performed before exposing said population of cells to said compound. 