An apparatus and method for determining a target-to-surface distance (TSD) between a target region in a body and an actual point of entry of a radiation beam into the body from a radiation source. The method may include determining an absorbed dose of radiation from the radiation beam at the target region using the TSD. The method may also include compensating for both the motion of the target region with respect to the radiation source, and the motion of surrounding tissue relative to the target region. The apparatus may include a sensor system to determine the actual point of entry of the radiation beam into the body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: determining an actual point of entry of a radiation beam into a body from a radiation source; and determining a target-to-surface distance (TSD) between a target region in the body and the actual point of entry, wherein determining the TSD comprises: determining a distance from the actual point of entry and the radiation source; determining a source-axis distance (SAD) between the radiation source and the target region; and subtracting the distance from the SAD to determine the TSD. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining an absorbed dose of radiation from the radiation beam at the target region during treatment delivery using the TSD. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: compensating for motion of the target region with respect to the radiation source; and compensating for motion of surrounding tissue relative to the target region. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein compensating for the motion of the surrounding tissue comprises adjusting a time that the radiation beam is directed at the target region to allow the absorbed dose at the target region to match a planned dose of a treatment plan. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the motion of the target region and the motion of the surrounding region is caused by respiration during treatment delivery. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein compensating for the motion of the target comprises: tracking the motion of the target region during treatment delivery; and moving at least one of the body or the radiation source with respect to one another to maintain a source-axis distance (SAD) between the radiation source and the target region despite the motion of the target region during the treatment delivery. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein tracking comprises tracking the target region using at least one of fiducial tracking, soft-tissue tracking, or skeletal structure tracking. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: delivering a portion of a radiation treatment to the target region of the body based on a treatment plan, wherein the treatment plan comprises a plan dose; determining an absorbed dose of the radiation treatment absorbed at the target region based on the determined TSD; and modifying a subsequent portion of the radiation treatment based on a determination that the absorbed dose is different from the plan dose. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising comparing the absorbed dose to the plan dose to identify a difference between the absorbed dose and the plan dose. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein modifying the subsequent portion of the radiation treatment comprises compensating for the difference, wherein compensating for the difference comprises at least one of: directing the radiation beam to the target region at a current node for a longer period of time until the absorbed dose of the radiation treatment matches the plan dose of the treatment plan; or directing an additional radiation beam to the target region at one or more different nodes until the absorbed dose of the radiation treatment matches the plan dose of the treatment plan. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the difference is due to a change in the TSD from treatment planning to treatment delivery. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the difference is due to a change in the TSD from movement of surrounding tissue with respect to the target region during treatment delivery. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the movement of the surrounding tissue is due to respiration motion of the body. 14. The method of claim 8, wherein modifying the subsequent portion of the radiation treatment comprises modifying a current session of the radiation treatment. 15. The method of claim 8, wherein modifying the subsequent portion of the radiation treatment comprises modifying a subsequent session of the radiation treatment. 16. The method of claim 8, further comprising providing feedback to an operator during treatment delivery, wherein the feedback comprises the determined absorbed dose or another dose value derived from the determined absorbed dose. 17. The method of claim 8, further comprising using a four-dimensional tissue deformation model to determine the absorbed dose of the radiation treatment absorbed at the target region. 18. The method of claim 8, further comprising suspending the radiation treatment in response to a determination that the absorbed dose of the radiation treatment matches the plan dose of the treatment plan. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising measuring a breathing cycle of the body using the actual point of entry. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising correlating the measured breathing cycle to an additional breathing cycle measured by a motion tracking system. 21. The method of claim 1, further comprising imaging a surface of the body to determine the actual point of entry of the radiation beam into the body. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising providing a laser beam that is coincident with the radiation beam to generate a laser spot that represents the place of incidence of the laser beam and the actual point of entry of the radiation beam. 23. A method, comprising: determining an actual point of entry of a radiation beam into a body from a radiation source; determining a target-to-surface distance (TSD) between a target region in the body and the actual point of entry; and avoiding a collision of a housing of the radiation source and the body using the actual point of entry, wherein avoiding the collision comprises: determining a first distance from the actual point of entry and the radiation source, wherein the radiation source is a second distance from the housing; and subtracting the second distance from the first distance to determine the TSD. 24. An apparatus, comprising: a radiation source to deliver a radiation beam to a target region of a body; an sensor system coupled to the radiation source to determine an actual point of entry of the radiation beam into the body; and a processing device coupled to the radiation source and the sensor system, wherein the processing device is operable to determine a target-to-surface distance (TSD) between the target region in the body and a surface of the body based on the determined actual point of entry, wherein the processing device is operable to determine a distance from the actual point of entry and the radiation source using the sensor system, to determine a source-axis distance (SAD) between the radiation source and the target region using a motion tracking system, and to subtract the distance from the SAD to determine the TSD. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, further comprising a motion tracking system coupled to the processing device, wherein the motion tracking system is operable to determine a source-axis distance (SAD) between the radiation source and the target region. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the motion tracking system is operable to compensate for motion of the target region, and wherein the motion tracking system is operable to maintain the SAD between the radiation source and the target region. 27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the sensor system is operable to determine a distance from the actual point of entry and the radiation source, and wherein the processing device is operable to determine the TSD based on the distance and the SAD. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the processing device is operable to determine an absorbed dose of radiation absorbed by the target region using the TSD. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the processing device is operable to turn off the radiation beam of the radiation source when the absorbed dose matches a pre-determined dose of a treatment plan. 30. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the radiation source is operable to deliver a portion of a radiation treatment to the target region of the body based on a treatment plan, wherein the treatment plan comprises a plan dose, and wherein the processing device is operable to determine an absorbed dose of the radiation treatment absorbed at the target region and to modify a subsequent portion of the radiation treatment based on a determination that the delivery dose is different from the plan dose. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the processing device is operable to modify the subsequent portion of the radiation treatment in a current session of the radiation treatment. 32. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the processing device is operable to modify the subsequent portion of the radiation treatment in a subsequent session of the radiation treatment. 33. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the processing device is further configured to compare the absorbed dose to the plan dose to identify a difference between the absorbed dose and the plan dose. 34. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the sensor system comprises a pair of stereo cameras, wherein the pair of stereo cameras is configured to image a surface of the body to which the radiation beam is directed to determine the actual point of entry of the radiation beam into the body. 35. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the sensor system comprises: a laser to provide a laser beam that is coincident with the radiation beam, wherein the laser beam generates a laser spot on the surface of the body that represents the place of incidence of the laser beam, and wherein the laser spot represents the actual point of entry; and a video camera to image the laser spot on the body, and wherein the processing device is operable to determine the actual point of entry based on the laser spot imaged by the video camera. 36. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the sensor system comprises: a laser to provide a laser beam that is coincident with the radiation beam, wherein the laser beam generates a laser spot on the surface of the body that represents the place of incidence of the laser beam, and wherein the laser spot represents the actual point of entry; and a pair of stereo video cameras to image the laser spot on the body, and wherein the processing device is operable to determine the actual point of entry based on the laser spot imaged by the pair of stereo video cameras. 37. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the sensor system comprises a sonar device to provide sound waves to determine the actual point of entry. 38. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the sensor system comprises a radar device to provide electromagnetic waves to determine the actual point of entry. 39. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising a user interface coupled to the processing device, the user interface to provide real-time feedback to an operator, wherein the real-time feedback comprises the determined absorbed dose or another dose value derived from the determined absorbed dose. 40. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising a treatment planning system coupled to the processing device, the treatment planning system to generate the treatment plan. 41. The apparatus of claim 40, further comprising a diagnostic imaging system coupled to the treatment planning system, the diagnostic imaging system to generate an image of the target region and communicate a representation of the image to the treatment planning system. 42. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising an imaging system coupled to the digital processing device, the imaging system to determine a real-time position of the target region relative to the radiation source. 43. The apparatus of claim 42, further comprising: a user interface coupled to the processing device; a memory device coupled to the processing device; and a measurement device coupled to the processing device. 44. The apparatus of claim 24, further comprising a treatment couch, wherein the processing device is further configured to move the radiation source or the treatment couch or both to produce a relative movement between the target region and the radiation source. 45. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the radiation source comprises a linear accelerator (LINAC) mounted to a robotic arm. 46. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the radiation source comprises a linear accelerator (LINAC) mounted to a gantry. 47. An apparatus, comprising: a radiation source to deliver a radiation beam to a target region of a body; means for determining an actual point of entry of a radiation beam into a body from a radiation source; means for determining a distance from the actual point of entry and the radiation source; and means for determining the distance from a source-axis distance (SAD) between the radiation source and the target region to determine a target-to-surface distance (TSD) between a target region in the body and a surface of the body based on the determined actual point of entry. 48. The apparatus of claim 47, further comprising means for compensating for motion of the target region and motion of the surrounding tissue relative to the target region during. 49. The apparatus of claim 47, further comprising means for delivering radiation beams to the target region whose surrounding tissue is moving with respiration during treatment delivery. 50. The apparatus of claim 47, further comprising means for determining radiation dose of the radiation beams absorbed at the target region. 51. The apparatus of claim 47, further comprising: means for radiating the target region based on a treatment plan, the treatment plan comprising a plan dose; means for determining an absorbed dose absorbed at the target region based on the determined TSD; and means for implementing a treatment delivery modification to supplement the treatment plan during treatment delivery based on a difference between the absorbed dose and the plan dose. 52. The apparatus of claim 51, further comprising means for modifying a radiation treatment session to compensate for the difference between the plan dose and the absorbed dose, wherein the radiation treatment session comprises a current session or a subsequent session. 