A multi-function robotic device may have utility in various applications. In accordance with one aspect, a multi-function robotic device may be selectively configurable to perform a desired function in accordance with the capabilities of a selectively removable functional cartridge operably coupled with a robot body. Localization and mapping techniques may employ partial maps associated with portions of an operating environment, data compression, or both.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-function robot comprising: a body comprising: a drive mechanism; an electronics module to provide instructions to said drive mechanism to position said robot in an operating environment; a sensing apparatus including an optical assembly to provide locality data to said electronics module, the locality data related to a location of said robot in the operating environment, thereby enabling said robot to determine its location in the operating environment independent of calibration with reference to an external source; a sensor array to provide proximity data to said electronics module, the proximity data related to a position of said robot relative to an obstacle in the operating environment, thereby enabling said robot to avoid obstacles in the operating environment independent of the locality data; and an attachment mechanism to receive a functional cartridge; said attachment mechanism being disposed on an interior surface of said body; and a selectively attachable functional cartridge having mechanical components to perform a function; said functional cartridge to engage said attachment mechanism and disposed substantially within said body; wherein mechanical characteristics of said functional cartridge are determined automatically when said functional cartridge is engaged and wherein said robot is selectively reconfigurable to perform the function in accordance with the mechanical characteristics. 2. The multi-function robot of claim 1 wherein the mechanical characteristics cause said robot to perform a mopping function when said functional cartridge is engaged with said body. 3. The multi-function robot of claim 1 wherein the mechanical characteristics cause said robot to perform a vacuuming function when said functional cartridge is engaged with said body. 4. The multi-function robot of claim 1 wherein the mechanical characteristics cause said robot to perform a sweeping function when said functional cartridge is engaged with said body. 5. The multi-function robot of claim 1 wherein a mechanical connection to enable operation of said functional cartridge is made automatically when said functional cartridge is engaged with said body. 6. The multi-function robot of claim 5 wherein said mechanical connection comprises an interface to couple torque from said drive mechanism through said attachment mechanism. 7. The multi-function robot of claim 1 wherein said body further comprises a detector component to identify the mechanical characteristics of said functional cartridge. 8. The multi-function robot of claim 7 wherein said electronics module provides instructions to said drive mechanism in accordance with output from said detector component. 9. The multi-function robot of claim 8 wherein said detector component comprises an optical sensor to identify indicia on said functional cartridge associated with the mechanical characteristics when said functional cartridge is engaged with said body. 10. The multi-function robot of claim 8 wherein said detector component comprises an electrical interface to receive data associated with the mechanical characteristics from a memory in said functional cartridge when said functional cartridge is engaged with said body. 11. The multi-function robot of claim 8 wherein said detector component comprises an input panel to receive input from a user. 12. A multi-function robot comprising: a body comprising a drive mechanism, an attachment mechanism disposed on an interior surface of said body, and an electronics module to provide instructions to said drive mechanism to position said robot in an operating environment; and a selectively attachable functional cartridge having mechanical components to perform a function; said functional cartridge to engage said attachment mechanism and disposed substantially within said body; wherein mechanical characteristics of said functional cartridge are determined automatically when said functional cartridge is engaged with said attachment mechanism and wherein said robot is selectively reconfigurable to perform the function in accordance with the mechanical characteristics. 13. The multi-function robot of claim 12 wherein said body further comprises a detector component to identify the mechanical characteristics of said functional cartridge. 14. The multi-function robot of claim 13 wherein said electronics module provides instructions to said drive mechanism in accordance with output from said detector component. 15. The multi-function robot of claim 14 wherein said detector component comprises an optical sensor to identify indicia on said functional cartridge associated with the mechanical characteristics when said functional cartridge is engaged with said body. 16. The multi-function robot of claim 14 wherein said detector component comprises an electrical interface to receive data associated with the mechanical characteristics from a memory in said functional cartridge when said functional cartridge is engaged with said body. 17. The multi-function robot of claim 14 wherein said detector component comprises an input panel to receive input from a user. 18. The multi-function robot of claim 12 wherein a mechanical connection to enable operation of said functional cartridge is made automatically when said functional cartridge is engaged with said body. 19. The multi-function robot of claim 18 wherein said mechanical connection comprises an interface to couple torque from said drive mechanism through said attachment mechanism. 20. A cartridge for use in cooperation with an autonomous robot comprising a body and a drive mechanism operative in accordance with instructions from an electronics module to position said body in an operating environment; said cartridge comprising: a housing; a functional mechanism having mechanical components to perform a function; said functional mechanism disposed substantially within said housing enabling said robot to perform the function in accordance with mechanical characteristics of said functional mechanism; a mechanical interface to engage an attachment mechanism disposed on an interior surface of said body such that said cartridge is disposed substantially within said body during use; and means for providing information related to the mechanical characteristics to a detector component associated with said body; said detector component to provide said electronics module with said information, thereby enabling said electronics module to influence operation of said robot in accordance with the mechanical characteristics. 21. The cartridge of claim 20 wherein said mechanical interface couples torque from said drive mechanism to said functional mechanism. 22. The cartridge of claim 20 wherein said means for providing information comprises optical indicia. 23. The cartridge of claim 22 wherein said optical indicia comprises a bar code. 24. The cartridge of claim 20 wherein said means for providing information comprises an electrical interface and a memory disposed in said cartridge. 25. The cartridge of claim 24 wherein said memory is a read only memory. 26. The cartridge of claim 20 wherein said functional mechanism enables said robot to perform a mopping function. 27. The cartridge of claim 20 wherein said functional mechanism enables said robot to perform a sweeping function. 28. The cartridge of claim 20 wherein said functional mechanism enables said robot to perform a vacuuming function. 