A substrate illumination and inspection system provides for illuminating and inspecting a substrate particularly the substrate edge. The system uses a light diffuser with a plurality of lights disposed at its exterior or interior for providing uniform diffuse illumination of a substrate. An optic and imaging system exterior of the light diffuser are used to inspect the plurality of surfaces of the substrate including specular surfaces. The optic can be rotated radially relative to a center point of the substrate edge to allow for focused inspection of all surfaces of the substrate edge.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic wafer edge inspection and review system comprising: an illuminator configured to provide diffused illumination across the top near edge surface, top bevel, apex, bottom bevel, and bottom near edge surface; an optical imaging subsystem to image a portion of the wafer edge; a positioning assembly to orientate the optical imaging subsystem to an inspection angle; an eccentricity sensor to actively measure the center offset of a wafer edge relative to the rotation center of the wafer chuck; and a wafer chuck to hold the backside of a wafer. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the optical imaging subsystem further comprises: an optical filter to cut off certain wavelength spectrum; a mirror; an objective lens; a motorized focus lens to provide routine-defined focus adjustment; a motorized zoom lens; a magnifier lens; and a high resolution area scan color camera to image a portion of the wafer edge. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the illuminator comprises: a cylindrical light diffuser having a slit extending at least a portion of its length for receiving an edge portion of a wafer; a plurality of light sources exterior or interior to the cylindrical light diffuser; and an intensity controller for independently controlling the plurality of light sources. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the optical imaging subsystem is orientated in such a way that its principal axis is always kept away from the normal direction of the wafer edge portion under inspection. 5. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a rotary stage which rotates the wafer in a step-and-stop fashion; and a control console to provide tool control functions, image display, defect inspection, defect classification and edge exclusion measurement capabilities. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the eccentricity sensor measures the eccentricity of a wafer and provides a signal to the control console. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein the rotary stage rotates the wafer along the circumference direction in a step-and-stop manner. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the linear stage performs the eccentricity compensation, and brings the wafer to a best focus position based on the signal from the eccentricity sensor. 9. The system of claim 5, wherein the control console performs automatic defect inspection and classification, automatic measurement of edge bead removal cut lines and semi-automated defect review. 10. The system of claim 2, wherein the filter is a polarizer. 11. An automatic wafer edge inspection and review system of claim 1, wherein the wafer chuck is a pin-chuck and the wafer is held on top of a plurality of pins by vacuum. 12. A wafer edge illumination and inspection system comprising: a light diffuser having a slit extending at least a portion of its length for receiving a portion of a wafer including a portion of the wafer edge; a plurality of light sources in proximity to the light diffuser; and an optical imaging subsystem for viewing the wafer wherein the optic is exterior of the light diffuser, and is positioned at an angle off a wafer edge surface normal, wherein the optical imaging subsystem further comprises an optical filter to cut off certain wavelength spectrum, a mirror, an objective lens, a motorized focus lens to provide routine-defined focus adjustment, a motorized zoom lens, a magnifier lens, a rotation mechanism for rotating the optic about an axis parallel to the wafer radially relative to a center point of the wafer edge region to allow imaging of a wafer top near edge surface, top bevel, apex, bottom bevel and bottom near edge surface, and a high resolution area scan color camera to image a portion of the wafer edge. 13. The wafer edge illumination and inspection system of claim 12 further comprising: an illumination control system for independently controlling the plurality of light sources. 14. The wafer edge illumination and inspection system of claim 12, wherein the light diffuser is a quartz tube. 15. The wafer edge illumination and inspection system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of light sources is an LED matrix. 16. The LED matrix of claim 15, wherein each LED is independently controllable. 17. The wafer edge illumination and inspection system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of light sources is an array of fiber optics each coupled to an independent remotely located lamp. 18. The array of fiber optics of claim 17, wherein each lamp is independently controllable. 19. The wafer edge illumination and inspection system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of light sources is an LCD matrix. 20. The wafer edge illumination and inspection system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of light sources is a flexible OLED. 21. A substrate imaging system for imaging a specular surface of a substrate, the system comprising: a light diffuser housing having an opening for receiving a portion of the substrate wherein the interior of the light diffuser housing is a uniform neutral background to a specular surface being imaged wherein the light diffuser housing extends from over a top surface of the wafer to adjacent an edge of the wafer and under a bottom surface of the wafer; an optical subsystem angled off a surface normal of the substrate area to be imaged wherein the optical lens is exterior to the light diffuser, wherein the optical subsystem comprise, a mirror, an objective lens, a motorized focus lens to provide routine-defined focus adjustment, a motorized zoom lens to provide both inspection and review functions, a magnifier lens, and a high resolution area scan color camera to image a portion of wafer edge; a light source disposed in the light diffuser housing; and an eccentricity sensor to actively measure the center offset of a wafer edge relative to the rotation center of the wafer chuck. 22. The substrate imaging system of claim 21, wherein the light source is coupled to a fiber optic for directing light from the light source to a plurality of locations of the light diffuser housing. 23. The substrate imaging system of claim 21, wherein the light source is one selected from the group of an LED matrix, LCD matrix, and OLED. 24. The substrate imaging system of claim 21 further comprising: a light controller for controlling the color and brightness of the light source. 25. The substrate imaging system of claim 15, wherein the light source is one selected from the group of an LED matrix, LCD matrix, and OLED, wherein the light diffuser housing is a covering attached to the light source. 