A lid assembly for semiconductor processing is provided. In at least one embodiment, the lid assembly includes a first electrode comprising an expanding section that has a gradually increasing inner diameter. The lid assembly also includes a second electrode disposed opposite the first electrode. A plasma cavity is defined between the inner diameter of the expanding section of the first electrode and a first surface of the second electrode.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A lid assembly for semiconductor processing, comprising: a first electrode comprising an expanding section that has a gradually increasing inner diameter; a second electrode disposed opposite the first, wherein a plasma cavity is defined between the inner diameter of the expanding section of the first electrode and a first surface of the second electrode and wherein the second electrode comprises a plurality of gas passages that are in fluid communication with the plasma cavity; and an isolation ring disposed about an outer diameter of the expanding section, wherein the isolation ring and the expanding section of the first electrode fit within a recess formed in the first surface of the second electrode. 2. A lid assembly for semiconductor processing, comprising: a first electrode comprising an expanding section having a gradually increasing inner diameter; and a second electrode disposed opposite the first electrode, wherein the second electrode comprises a plurality of gas passages formed there through and wherein a plasma cavity is defined between the inner diameter of the expanding section of the first electrode and a first surface of the second electrode; and a perforated plate disposed opposite a second surface of the second electrode, wherein the perforations of the perforated plate are in fluid communication with the plurality of gas passages of the second electrode, wherein; the second electrode and the perforated plate each comprise a notched outer diameter, and the notched outer diameter of the second electrode is adapted to mount on the notched outer diameter of the perforated plate; the said lid assembly further comprising an isolation ring disposed about an outer diameter of the expanding section, wherein the isolation ring and the expanding section of the first electrode fit within a recess formed in the first surface of the second electrode. 3. The lid assembly of claim 2, wherein the perforated plate includes a fluid channel embedded in an outer diameter thereof for conveying a heating medium to heat the perforated plate. 4. The lid assembly of claim 2, wherein the perforated plate convectively heats the second electrode. 5. A lid assembly for semiconductor processing, comprising: a first electrode comprising an expanding section having a gradually increasing inner diameter; a second electrode disposed opposite the first electrode, wherein the second electrode comprises a plurality of gas passages formed there through and wherein a plasma cavity is defined between the inner diameter of the expanding section of the first electrode and a first surface of the second electrode; a first perforated plate disposed opposite a second surface of the second electrode; and a second perforated plate disposed between the second electrode and the first perforated plate, wherein; the second electrode and the first perforated plate each comprise a notched outer diameter, the notched outer diameter of the second electrode is adapted to mount on the notched outer diameter of the first perforated plate; and at least a portion of the second perforated plate is adapted to mount to the second surface of the second electrode; the said lid assembly, further comprising an isolation ring disposed about an outer diameter of the expanding section, wherein the isolation ring and the expanding section of the first electrode fit within a recess formed in the first surface of the second electrode. 6. The lid assembly of claim 5, wherein the first perforated plate includes a fluid channel embedded in an outer diameter thereof for conveying a heating medium to heat the first perforated plate. 7. The lid assembly of claim 5, wherein the expanding section of the first electrode is connected to a RF power source and adapted to confine a plasma of reactive gases within the plasma cavity. 8. The lid assembly of claim 5, wherein the perforations of the first and second perforated plates are in fluid communication with the gas passages of the second electrode. 