Improved instruments for modifying a shape of a proximal femur of a patient for installation of a stem of a femoral component of a prosthetic hip during hip replacement surgery, comprising a handle including an elongated shaft extending downward approximately in a z-direction, a first offset extending from a bottom of the elongated shaft approximately in a y-direction, a second offset extending from the second offset approximately in an x-direction, and a shaping member elongated downward from the second offset approximately in the z-direction. Provided is an improved femoral broach and an improved osteotome. Also provided is a method of improving a patient's positioning during hip replacement surgery by using a variable configuration mattress for positioning the patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An instrument for operating on a medullary canal for installation of a prosthetic stem component, comprising: a handle including an elongated shaft extending approximately in a z-direction; a first offset extending from a lower end of the elongated shaft approximately in a y-direction; a second offset extending from the first offset approximately in an x-direction; and a shaping member extending downward from the second offset approximately in the z-direction, wherein the y-direction is substantially perpendicular to the z-direction, and the x-direction is substantially perpendicular to the y-direction and the z-direction, wherein the handle and the shaping member are positioned with respect to one another in a non-planar relationship, and wherein the shaping member further comprises cutting elements and the instrument is a box osteotome for resecting at least a portion of a femoral trochanter. 2. A method of installing a prosthetic stem component, comprising the steps of: providing an instrument for operating on a medullary canal for installation of a prosthetic stem component, comprising a handle including a shaft extending downward approximately in a z-direction, a first offset extending from a bottom of the elongated shaft approximately in a y-direction, a second offset extending from the first offset approximately in an x-direction, and a shaping member elongated downward from the second offset approximately in the z-direction, wherein the y-direction is substantially perpendicular to the z-direction, and the x-direction is substantially perpendicular to the y-direction and the z-direction, and wherein the handle and the shaping member are positioned with respect to one another in a non-planar relationship; inserting the instrument into the medullary canal through a surgical incision; positioning the instrument; operating on the medullary canal with the instrument; removing the instrument from the medullary canal; installing the prosthetic stem component in the medullary canal; and completing the surgery. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of inserting the instrument into the medullary canal, the surgical incision is an anterior surgical incision. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of inserting the instrument into the medullary canal, the surgical incision is a minimally invasive surgical incision. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of inserting the instrument into the medullary canal, the surgical incision is from approximately 4 cm to approximately 16 cm in length. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein the instrument is a femoral broach. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein the instrument is a box osteotome. 