An inkjet printer is provided having at least one printhead module of at least two inkjet printhead integrated circuits, a casing in which the at least one printhead module is removably mounted, and a printer body arranged to removably receive the casing. The printhead module has a first side which is slidably received in a longitudinally extending groove of the casing and a second side which is clamped to the casing by a clamp mounted to the casing. The clamp is configured to constrain movement of the printhead module relative to the casing, and therefore the printer body, across the longitudinal direction of the casing and in the direction of ink ejection from the printed integrated circuits, and to allow movement of the printhead module along the longitudinal direction of the casing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An inkjet printer comprising: at least one printhead module having at least two inkjet printhead integrated circuits; a casing in which the at least one printhead module is removably mounted by having a first side thereof slidably received in a longitudinally extending groove of the casing and a second side thereof clamped to the casing by a clamp mounted to the casing; a printer body arranged to removably receive the casing, wherein the clamp is configured to constrain movement of the printhead module relative to the casing, and therefore the printer body, across the longitudinal direction of the casing and in the direction of ink ejection from the printed integrated circuits, and to allow movement of the printhead module along the longitudinal direction of the casing. 2. A printer according to claim 1, wherein each printhead integrated circuit has inkjet nozzles formed therein for delivering ink onto the surface of print media, and a support member supporting and carrying the ink for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member being received in the groove of the casing. 3. A printer according to claim 2, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, at least two ink distribution members each mounting one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the ink for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the ink from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the ink distribution members. 4. A printer according to claim 2, wherein: the casing comprises a longitudinally extending channel portion within which the at least one printhead module is mounted, the channel comprising first and second side walls joined by a lower wall; the first side wall including the longitudinally extending groove and the longitudinally extending groove being formed between upper and lower longitudinally extending tabs; and the second side wall having a longitudinally extending upper surface upon which the second side of the at least one printhead module is mounted, the longitudinally extending upper surface having a height from the lower surface of the channel portion substantially equal to a height of the lower longitudinally extending tab of the first side wall. 5. A printer according to claim 4, wherein: the casing includes a support frame, incorporating the channel portion, and a cover portion; and the clamp engages with the support frame. 