In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a technique which may be used in conjunction with an automated Z-pin insertion process to automatically monitor the insertion energy applied to the Z-pins during the initial insertion phase of the automated insertion process, and compare it to an empirically derived value for good insertions, thereafter allowing the insertion process to continue to a predetermined additional insertion depth before terminating the process. The insertion energy is calculated by cumulatively summing the insertion force and multiplying it by the insertion time, thus yielding the cumulative energy. At a specified, predetermined insertion depth, the energy accumulation is stopped and the value at the initial insertion depth is stored and compared to an empirically derived value. If the value is less than the empirical value, the insertion energy is too low, thus indicating that either a partial grid insertion is being encountered or defective Z-pins are being inserted. Insertion is allowed to continue until another empirically derived second insertion depth is reached whereat the insertion is terminated. The second depth is necessary for the continued insertion of partial grids to ensure that the Z-pins are fully inserted. The second depth is a function of the laminate thickness to ensure full depth insertions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of predicting an over insertion of at least one Z-pin into a composite laminate and determining whether the Z-pin is defective, the method comprising the steps of: a) positioning at least one Z-pin upon the composite laminate; b) applying an insertion force to the Z-pin at a level sufficient to commence an insertion process wherein the Z-pin is driven into the composite laminate to a first insertion depth; c) monitoring the insertion force applied to the Z-pin during the insertion thereof to the first insertion depth; d) calculating an insertion energy level applied to the Z-pin during the insertion thereof to the first insertion depth; and e) comparing the insertion energy level to an empirically derived value. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: f) maintaining the application of the insertion force to the Z-pin at a level sufficient to drive the Z-pin into the composite laminate to a second insertion depth. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein step (f) is completed only if the insertion energy level is below the empirically derived value. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the second insertion depth is empirically derived as a function of a thickness of the composite laminate. 5. The method of claim 2 further comprising the step of: g) terminating the application of the insertion force to the Z-pin upon the Z-pin reaching the second insertion depth. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the calculation of the insertion energy level in step (d) is discontinued when the Z-pin reaches the first insertion depth. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein application of the insertion force to the Z-pin in step (b) is paused when the Z-pin reaches the first insertion depth. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein an ultrasonic horn is used to apply the insertion force to the Z-pin in step (b). 9. The method of claim 1 wherein step (d) comprises calculating the insertion energy level by multiplying the insertion force by a measure of time needed for the Z-pin to reach the first insertion depth. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein step (a) comprises embedding the Z-pin into a carrier pre-form which is positioned upon the composite laminate. 11. A method of predicting over insertions of a plurality of Z-pins into a composite laminate and determining whether any one of the Z-pins is defective, the method comprising the steps of: a) positioning the Z-pins upon the composite laminate; b) applying an insertion force to the Z-pins at a level sufficient to commence an insertion process wherein the Z-pins are concurrently driven into the composite laminate to a first insertion depth; c) monitoring the insertion force applied to the Z-pins during the insertion thereof to the first insertion depth; d) calculating an insertion energy level applied to the Z-pins during the insertion thereof to the first insertion depth; and e) comparing the insertion energy level to an empirically derived value. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of: f) maintaining the application of the insertion force to the Z-pins at a level sufficient to drive the Z-pins into the composite laminate to a second insertion depth. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein step (f) is completed only if the insertion energy level is below the empirically derived value. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the second insertion depth is empirically derived as a function of a thickness of the composite laminate. 15. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of: g) terminating the application of the insertion force to the Z-pins upon the Z-pins reaching the second insertion depth. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the calculation of the insertion energy level in step (d) is discontinued when the Z-pins reach the first insertion depth. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein application of the insertion force to the Z-pins in step (b) is paused when the Z-pins reach the first insertion depth. 18. The method of claim 11 wherein an ultrasonic horn is used to apply the insertion force to the Z-pins in step (b). 19. The method of claim 11 wherein step (d) comprises calculating the insertion energy level by multiplying the insertion force by a measure of time needed for the Z-pins to reach the first insertion depth. 20. The method of claim 11 wherein step (a) comprises embedding the Z-pins into a carrier pre-form which is positioned upon the composite laminate. 