An end of arm tool has a mounting bracket mounting the end of arm tool to the robot arm for movement therewith and has a plurality of operating mechanisms mounted to the mounting bracket, a plurality of gripping devices each operatively connected to a respective operating mechanism and movable along a path, and a plurality of individual motors each operatively connected to a respective gripping device for moving the respective gripping device along its respective path. At least one programmable controller for operating the motors is provided to adjust the positions of the gripping devices along their respective paths to one of a plurality of predetermined positions established by the controller for gripping the article and to position the end of arm tool adjacent the article so that at least one of the gripping devices grips the article.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling an end of arm tool mounted on a robotic arm for placing or retrieving an article, comprising the steps of: providing an end of arm tool having a plurality of operating mechanisms, each of the operating mechanisms being independently pivotable in a common plane and including a fastener for holding the operating mechanism in a fixed position after the operating mechanism has been pivoted; a single separate gripping device carried by a corresponding bracket moveably mounted upon each of said operating mechanisms with each gripping device movable by its respective operating mechanism along a separate elongated path spaced from the paths of the other gripping devices; providing a plurality of motors at least one motor operatively connected to a respective gripping device for moving that gripping device along its respective path; pivoting at least one of the operating mechanisms into a position; fixing the at least one of the operating mechanisms in position with the fastener associated with the operating mechanism; and using at least one programmable controller programmed with a plurality of operating modes for the robotic arm and end of arm tool, each of the modes being selectable by the controller based on an input that indicates to the controller what mode of operation the end of arm tool is to operate in for the next movement and then move the robotic arm and end of arm tool accordingly. 2. A method of controlling an end of arm tool mounted on a robotic arm for placing or retrieving an article, comprising the steps of: providing an end of arm tool having a plurality of operating mechanisms, each operating mechanisms being independently pivotable in a common plane and including a fastener for holding the operating mechanism in a fixed position after the operating mechanism has been pivoted, each operating mechanism supporting a single separate gripping device carried by a corresponding bracket moveably mounted upon each of the operating mechanisms with each gripping device movable by its respective operating mechanism along a separate elongated path spaced from the paths of the other gripping devices; providing a plurality of motors at least one motor operatively connected to a respective gripping device for moving that gripping device along its respective path; pivoting at least one of the operating mechanisms into a position; fixing the at least one of the operating mechanisms in position with the fastener associated with the operating mechanism; using at least one programmable controller programmed to operate the motors so as to adjust the positions of the gripping devices along their respective paths to one of a plurality of predetermined positions established by the controller for gripping the article and to position the end of arm tool adjacent the article so that at least one of the gripping devices grips the article; and moving the arm so as to move the article. 3. The method of claim 2 including making the separate paths of the gripping devices extend longitudinally in the common plane. 4. The method of claim 2 including providing each operating mechanism with a bracket movable by the at least one motor and mounting the respective gripping device to the bracket for movement with the bracket. 5. The method of claim 4 including providing each motor with a stepping mechanism controlled by the at least one controller for positioning the respective gripping device at one of the predetermined locations. 6. An end of arm tool for attachment to a robotic arm, comprising: a mounting bracket for mounting the end of arm tool on the robotic arm, a plurality of operating mechanisms mounted on the mounting bracket, the operating mechanisms being substantially identical and each being independently pivotable in a common plane containing their elongated paths; a fastener associated with each operating mechanism for holding the operating mechanism in a fixed position in the common plane after the operating mechanism has been pivoted; a plurality of gripping devices, with one each gripping device carried by a corresponding gripper bracket moveably mounted upon a corresponding one of the operating mechanisms, each gripping device being independently movable along a separate elongated path spaced from the paths of the other gripping devices by at least one motor carried by its respective operating mechanism; and at least one programmable controller for operating the motors so as to adjust the positions of the gripping devices along their respective paths to one of a plurality of predetermined positions established by the controller for gripping the article and to position the end of arm tool adjacent the article so that at least one of the gripping devices grips the article. 7. The end of arm tool of claim 6 wherein the elongated paths are linear and extend in the common plane. 8. The end of arm tool of claim 6 wherein each operating mechanism has a gripper bracket movable by the at least one motor with the respective gripping device being secured to the bracket for movement with the bracket. 9. The end of arm tool of claim 8 including each motor having a stepping mechanism controlled by at least one controller for positioning the respective gripping device at one of several predetermined locations. 10. An end of arm tool for attachment to a robotic arm, comprising: a mounting bracket for mounting the end of arm tool on the robotic arm; a plurality of adjustable operating mechanisms mounted on the mounting bracket, the operating mechanisms being substantially identical and being pivotable in a common plane containing their motion; a fastener associated with each operating mechanism for holding the operating mechanism in a fixed position in the common plane after the operating mechanism has been pivoted; a plurality of gripping devices with each gripping device carried by a corresponding gripper bracket moveably mounted upon a corresponding one of the operating mechanisms and movable along a path to a desired location the paths being linear and extending in a common plane; and a plurality of motors at least one of which is operatively connected to a respective gripper bracket device for moving that gripper bracket and the associated gripping device along that gripping device's path. 11. The end of arm tool of claim 10 including at least one programmable controller for operating the motors so as to adjust the positions of the gripping devices along their respective paths to one of a plurality of predetermined positions established by the controller for gripping the article and to position the end of arm tool adjacent the article so that at least one of the gripping devices grips the article. 12. The end of arm tool of claim 11 including each motor having a stepping mechanism controlled by the at least one controller for positioning the respective gripping device at one of several predetermined locations. 13. An assembly of a robot arm and end of arm tool, comprising: a robot arm movable relative to an article; an end of arm tool, the end of arm tool having: a mounting bracket mounting the end of arm tool to the robot arm for movement therewith; a plurality of operating mechanisms mounted to the mounting bracket, the operating mechanisms being substantially identical and being pivotable in the common plane containing their paths; a fastener associated with each operating mechanism for holding the operating mechanism in a fixed position in the common plane after the operating mechanism has been pivoted; a plurality of gripping devices with each single gripping device operatively connected to a respective operating mechanism by a movable gripper bracket carried upon the operating mechanism with the paths of movement of the gripping devices being linear and extending in a common plane; a plurality of individual motors each operatively connected to a respective gripping device for moving the respective gripping device along its respective path; and at least one programmable controller for operating the motors so as to adjust the positions of the gripping devices along their respective paths to one of a plurality of predetermined positions established by the controller for gripping the article and to position the end of arm tool adjacent the article so that at least one of the gripping devices grips the article. 14. The end of arm tool of claim 13 wherein each gripper bracket is movable by the respective motor with the respective gripping device being secured to the gripper bracket for movement with the gripper bracket. 15. The end of arm tool of claim 13 including each motor having a stepping mechanism controlled by at least one controller for positioning the respective gripping device at one of the several predetermined locations. 