A portable orthovoltage radiotherapy system is described that is configured to deliver a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, the ocular structures are placed in a global coordinate system based on ocular imaging. In some embodiments, the ocular structures inside the global coordinate system lead to direction of an automated positioning system that is directed based on the ocular structures within the coordinate system.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system, for delivering radiation to an eye, comprising: an eye model, derived, at least in part, from anatomic data of a patient's eye; an emitter that delivers an x-ray beam to the eye with a maximum energy from about 10 keV to about 500 keV; a position guide, coupled to the emitter, that positions, based on the eye model, the emitter with respect to a location in or on the eye, to deliver the x-ray beam to a target in or on the eye; and a planning module that determines, based on the eye model, at least two parameters of treatment of the eye by the x-ray beam, and that outputs a signal indicative of at least one of the two parameters to the position guide or the emitter. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least two parameters comprise at least two of a beam target, a beam on-time, a beam intensity, a beam energy, a beam trajectory, a treatment field size, a treatment field shape, a distance from the emitter to the target, an exposure time, and a radiation dose. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the position guide directs, in response to a first signal from the planning module, a first x-ray beam from a first position toward a first region of a sclera of the eye to target a treatment region of the eye, and directs, in response to a second signal from the planning module, a second x-ray beam from a second position toward a second region of the sclera to target the treatment region of the eye. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the treatment region comprises at least one of the macula of the eye, the sclera of the eye, the trabecular meshwork of the eye, and a capsule of the lens of the eye. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a collimator that collimates the x-ray beam. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the collimator is configured to collimate the x-ray beam to a width of from about 0.5 mm to about 6 mm. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein the collimator is configured to produce an x-ray beam having a penumbra at the target of less than about five percent within a distance, from the collimator to the target, of about 50 cm. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein, when the position guide has positioned the emitter with respect to the location, and the x-ray beam is delivered to the target, the collimator is positioned within about 15 cm of the target. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the emitter is configured to deliver an x-ray beam with a maximum photon energy between about 25 keV and about 150 keV. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the anatomic data of the patient's eye comprises data indicative of at least one of the nose of the patient, the forehead of the patient, cartilage, bony structures of the head of the patient, soft tissue of the head of the patient, an anatomic dimension of the eye, and an anatomic structure of the eye. 11. A treatment system, for delivering radiation to a patient, comprising: an anatomical representation of a patient's eye based on imaging data of the eye; an emitter that emits a radiation beam; a position guide, coupled to the emitter, that, based on the anatomical representation, moves the emitter into a position from which the radiation beam is delivered to a target on or in the eye. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the emitter is configured to emit the radiation beam with a maximum photon energy between about 10 keV and about 500 keV. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the radiation beam comprises an x-ray beam. 14. The system of claim 11, further comprising: a planning module, configured to determine, based on the anatomical representation, at least two of the following parameters: a beam target, a beam intensity, a beam energy, a beam trajectory, a treatment field size, a treatment field shape, a distance from the emitter to the target, an exposure time, a beam on time, and a treatment dose; and wherein the planning module outputs, to the position guide or the emitter, a signal indicative of each of the at least two parameters. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the position guide positions the emitter, based on information from the planning module, such that the emitter directs a first radiation beam from a first position through a first portion of the eye to a treatment region within the eye, and such that the emitter directs a second radiation beam from a second position through a second portion of the eye to the treatment region within the eye. 16. The system of claim 14, further comprising a sensing module that senses a position of the eye and relays information concerning the position of the eye to the planning module. 17. The system of claim 11, further comprising a sensing module that senses a position of the eye and relays information concerning the position of the eye to the position guide. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the sensing module comprises a portion that physically contacts the eye. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the sensing module optically senses the position of the eye. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the sensing module senses the position by detecting a reflection from an ocular structure. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the ocular structure comprises a cornea of the eye. 22. The system of claim 11, further comprising a collimator that is positioned within about 15 cm of the target when the position guide has moved the emitter into the position, and the radiation beam is delivered to the target. 23. The system of claim 11, further comprising a detector, coupled to the emitter, that detects that the eye has moved such that the radiation beam is not directed at the target. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the emitter is configured not to emit the radiation beam if the eye has moved out of a predetermined position or range of positions. 25. The system of claim 11, further comprising a light source, coupled to the emitter, that directs a light toward the eye. 26. The system of claim 11, wherein the anatomic representation of the patient's eye comprises data indicative of at least one of the nose of the patient, the forehead of the patient, cartilage of the patient, bony structures of the head of the patient, soft tissue of the head of the patient, and an anatomic structure of the eye. 