The present invention generally comprises a method for achieving fault tolerance in a PV FAB. A plurality of processing tools may be coupled together along a processing line, and a plurality of substantially identical processing lines may be arranged within the FAB. Whenever a processing tool within any processing line is shut-down, rather than shut-down the entire processing line containing the shut-down processing tool, work-pieces may be routed around the shut-down processing tool by transferring the work-pieces to an adjacent processing line within the FAB. At a location after the shut-down processing tool, the work-pieces may be transferred back to the processing line containing the shut-down processing tool. During the time period that the processing tool is shut-down, the other processing lines within the FAB may increase their throughput in order to maintain a substantially constant optimum throughput for the FAB over a given period of time.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of achieving fault tolerance for a photovoltaic factory, comprising: disposing a plurality of work-pieces into a factory, the factory comprising a plurality of substantially identical processing lines, each processing line having a plurality of processing tools coupled together, the factory further comprising one or more buffer or stocker stations between each processing line at a location adjacent to each processing tool; processing the work-pieces within the individual processing lines without transferring the work-pieces between the processing lines, the processing occurring at a predetermined optimum throughput that is below a maximum throughput; detecting a shut-down at one or more processing tools in a first processing line of the plurality of substantially identical processing lines; transferring the work-pieces from the first processing line to other processing lines at the one or more buffer or stocker stations at a location before the shut-down tool of the first processing line; receiving transferred work-pieces from the first processing line into the other processing lines; and increasing throughput for the other processing lines to a level above the optimum level in order to achieve fault tolerance and maintain a substantially constant throughput averaged over a predetermined period of time. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of processing tools within each processing line of the plurality of processing lines are arranged linearly such that the work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially linear path. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of processing tools within each processing line of the plurality of processing lines are arranged non-linearly such that the work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially non-linear path. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of processing lines are arranged within the factory such that at least one processing line comprises a plurality of processing tools arranged linearly such that the work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially linear path and at least one processing line comprises a plurality of processing tools arranged non-linearly such that the work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially non-linear path. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: repairing the shut-down tool; and operating the plurality of processing lines without transferring the work-pieces. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: repairing the shut-down tool; and operating the plurality of processing lines without transferring the work-pieces. 7. A method of achieving fault tolerance for a photovoltaic factory, comprising: determining a minimum economic unit for a processing line within the factory to achieve an optimum throughout in the factory, the processing line having a plurality of processing tools coupled together; coupling a plurality of processing lines together within the factory, each processing line having the minimum economic unit, the plurality of processing lines coupled together at one or more of the processing tools; detecting a shut-down of one or more tools within one or more processing lines; and compensating for the shut-down of the one or more tools to achieve fault tolerance, the compensating comprising: transferring work-pieces between the plurality of processing lines at a first buffer or stocker station disposed prior to the shut-down of the one or more tools adjacent processing lines; transferring the work-pieces between the plurality of processing lines at a second buffer or stocker station disposed after the shut-down of the one or more tools; and increasing throughput through the plurality of processing lines above the optimum throughput such that the average throughput for the factory over a predetermined period of time remains substantially constant. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: repairing the shut-down tool; and operating the plurality of processing lines without transferring the work-pieces. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the plurality of processing tools within each processing line of the plurality of processing lines are arranged linearly such that the work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially linear path. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the plurality of processing tools within each processing line of the plurality of processing lines are arranged non-linearly such that the work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially non-linear path. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the plurality of processing lines are arranged within the factory such that at least one processing line comprises a plurality of processing tools arranged linearly such that the work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially linear path and at least one processing line comprises a plurality of processing tools arranged non-linearly such that the work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially non-linear path. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: repairing the shut-down tool; and operating the plurality of processing lines without transferring the work-pieces. 13. A photovoltaic factory having fault tolerance capabilities, comprising: a plurality of substantially identical processing lines disposed within the factory, each processing line comprising a plurality of processing tools that collectively produce photovoltaic devices; one or more buffer or stocker stations disposed between adjacent processing lines at locations between each processing tool, the one or more stocker stations permitting transferring therethrough of photovoltaic work-pieces between processing lines; and one or more work-piece transfer devices, the devices capable of retrieving a work-piece into a processing tool, and rotating and extending to the one or more buffer or stocker stations disposed between processing lines to transfer a work-piece between processing lines and achieve fault tolerance. 14. The factory of claim 13, wherein the one or more work-piece transfer devices are capable of linearly actuating to access an adjacent processing tool along the same processing line. 15. The factory of claim 13, wherein the plurality of processing tools within each processing line of the plurality of processing lines are arranged linearly such that work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially linear path. 16. The factory of claim 13, wherein the plurality of processing tools within each processing line of the plurality of processing lines are arranged non-linearly such that work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially non-linear path. 17. The factory of claim 13, wherein the plurality of processing lines are arranged within the factory such that at least one processing line comprises a plurality of processing tools arranged linearly such that work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially linear path and at least one processing line comprises a plurality of processing tools arranged non-linearly such that work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially non-linear path. 18. The factory of claim 13, wherein the one or more work-piece transfer devices further comprise a plurality of work-piece transfer devices, and wherein a plurality of work-piece transfer devices may access a common processing tool simultaneously. 19. The factory of claim 13, wherein the one or more buffer or stocker stations comprises one or more up and over stations. 20. The factory of claim 19, wherein the plurality of processing tools within each processing line of the plurality of processing lines are arranged non-linearly such that work-pieces move through the processing lines along a substantially non-linear path. 