A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle comprises a chassis, a pair of right and left drive pulleys, a right and left planetary wheel, a right and left track, a right and left arm mechanism, and a right and left drive motor. The drive pulleys are rotatably attached to the chassis and each pair of drive pulleys is in the same plane. The planetary wheels are movable relative to the chassis such that each planetary wheel is in the same plane as its respective drive pulleys. The tracks extend around the pair of drive pulleys and the planetary wheel on the respective sides. The arm mechanisms connect the respective planetary wheel to the chassis. Each arm mechanism is rotatably attached to the chassis with a cam. The cam defines a motion path of one end of the arm whereby the motion of the planetary wheel provides a path for the planetary wheel such that the track path defined by the respective drive pulleys and the planetary wheel is a constant track length. The motors are each operably connected to the respective pair of drive pulleys for driving the track.
Claims What is claimed as the invention is: 1. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle comprising: a chassis; a pair of right drive pulleys and a pair of left drive pulleys rotatably attached to a right and a left side of the chassis, respectively, each pair of right drive pulleys and left drive pulleys defining a right plane and left plane, respectively; a right and a left planetary wheel movable relative to the chassis such that each of the right and left planetary wheel is in the same plane as the respective right and left planes of the pairs of right and left drive pulleys; a right and a left track belt, each track belt extending around the pair of drive pulleys and the planetary wheel on the respective side of the chassis, each track belt having a track length; a right and a left planetary wheel arm operably connecting the respective planetary wheels to the chassis, each planetary wheel arm being rotatably attached to the chassis with a cam, the cam defining the motion path of one end of the planetary wheel arm whereby the motion of the planetary wheel arm provides a track path for the planetary wheel such that the track path defined by the respective drive pulleys and the planetary wheel has a constant length wherein each planetary wheel arm has a track tensioning mechanism that includes a fixed cam, a crank and a follower whereby the crank is rotatably attached to the chassis and the follower is slidingly engaged in the crank, one end of the follower is rotatably attached to the cam and other end is attached to the planetary wheel; a drive means for the right and left track belt; and a means for positioning the right and left planetary wheels. 2. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 wherein the drive means is a right drive motor and a left drive motor, each operably connected to the respective pair of drive pulleys for driving the track belt. 3. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 2 wherein the positioning means is a planetary motor operably connected to the right and left planetary wheels. 4. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 3 further including a right and left skid support for the bottom of the track belt. 5. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 4 wherein each skid support is compliant to impact. 6. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 5 wherein each pair of drive pulleys is compliant to impact. 7. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 wherein the follower includes a tension follower, a guider and a spring therebetween whereby the spring biases the planetary wheel outwardly. 8. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 7 wherein each of the pair of drive pulleys has a diameter that is the same as the others. 9. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 8 wherein each planetary wheel has a diameter that is the same as the drive pulley diameter. 10. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 9 wherein the path of the planetary wheel is an ellipse having the drive pulleys as the foci of the ellipse. 11. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 7 wherein the right and left planetary wheel arms are attached together with an arm main shaft such that movement of the arm main shaft effectively moves the right and left planetary wheels in concert. 12. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 11 wherein the drive means is a right drive motor and a left drive motor each operably connected to the respective pair of drive pulleys for driving the track. 13. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 12 wherein the positioning means is a planetary motor operably connected to the right and left planetary wheels. 14. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 further including a right and left skid support for the bottom of the track belt. 15. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 14 wherein each skid support is compliant to impact. 16. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 further including a robotic arm mounted on the chassis. 17. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 16 further including accessories attached thereto wherein the accessories are chosen from the group consisting of PTZ cameras, bio-chem sensors, x-ray equipment, disrupters, wireless equipment, standard sensors and combinations thereof. 18. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 wherein the positioning means is a planetary motor operably attached to the right and left planetary wheel. 19. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 wherein the vehicle is operated remotely. 20. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 19 wherein the vehicle is invertable remotely without disturbing its operation. 21. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 19 wherein the planetary wheel is used to facilitate stair ascending and descending. 22. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 19 wherein the planetary wheel is used to facilitate ditch crossing. 23. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 wherein each pair of drive pulleys is compliant to impact. 24. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 further including a remote control unit operably connected to the vehicle. 25. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 24 wherein the remote control unit is connected by way of radio frequency. 26. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 24 wherein the remote control unit includes an arm command that moves a robotic arm attached to the chassis into a stowed position. 27. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 26 further includes another arm command that moves the robotic arm into a predetermined location. 28. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 24 wherein the remote control unit includes a chassis command that moves the chassis in a straight line between a point A and a point B. 29. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 28 wherein the remote control unit includes another chassis command that moves the chassis in a circle of a selected radius. 30. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 29 wherein readings from a GPS system attached to the vehicle are used to correct the straight line chassis command and the circle chassis command. 31. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 28 wherein readings from a compass attached to the vehicle are used to correct the straight line chassis command. 32. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in 24 wherein the remote control unit includes an automatic climb stair command and a descend stair command. 33. A variable configuration articulated tracked vehicle as claimed in 32 wherein the climb stair command and the descend stair command adjusts the position of the planetary wheel thereby adjusting the centre of gravity according to a stability calculation based on the centre of gravity. 34. A tracked vehicle comprising: a chassis; a pair of right drive pulleys and a pair of left drive pulleys rotatably attached to the right and left side of the chassis respectively, each pair of drive pulleys are in the same plane; a right and a left tensioning pulley, each tensioning pulley being in the same plane as the respective pair of drive pulleys; a right and a left track belt, each extending around the pair of drive pulleys and the tensioning pulley on the respective sides; a right and left tensioning arm that connects the respective right and left tensioning pulley to the chassis wherein each tensioning arm includes a tension follower, a guider and a spring therebetween, whereby the spring biases the tensioning pulley outwardly thereby tensioning the track belt; and a drive means for the right and left track belt. 35. A tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 34 wherein the drive means is a right drive motor and a left drive motor, each operably connected to the respective pair of drive pulleys for driving the track belt. 36. A tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 34 further including a right and left skid support for the bottom of the track. 37. A tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 36 wherein the right and left skid supports are compliant to impact. 38. A tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 37 wherein each pair of drive pulleys is compliant to impact. 39. A tracked vehicle comprising: a chassis; a pair of right drive pulleys and a pair of left drive pulleys rotatably attached to the right and left side of the chassis respectively, each pair of drive pulleys are in the same plane; a right and a left track belt each extending around the pair of drive pulleys on the respective sides of the chassis, each track belt having a track length; a drive means for the right and left track belt; an inclinometer operably connected to the tracked vehicle for determining the inclination of the tracked vehicle; and a means for varying the centre of gravity whereby the centre of gravity is adjusted when the inclinometer indicates that the tracked vehicle is unstable. 40. The tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 39 further including: a right and a left planetary wheel movable relative to the chassis such that each of the right and left planetary wheel is in the same plane as the respective planes of the pairs of right and left drive pulleys and the respective right and left track belts further extending around the respective right and left planetary wheel; a right and a left planetary wheel arm operably connecting the respective planetary wheels to the chassis, each planetary wheel arm being rotatably attached to the chassis with a cam, the cam defining the motion path of one end of the planetary wheel arm whereby the motion of the planetary wheel arm provides a track path for the planetary wheel such that the track path defined by the respective drive pulleys and the planetary wheel has a constant length; a means for positioning the right and left planetary wheels; and wherein the means for varying the centre of gravity includes varying the position of the right and left planetary wheel arms. 41. The tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 40 wherein each planetary wheel arm has a track tensioning mechanism that includes a fixed cam, a crank and a follower whereby the crank is rotatably attached to the chassis and the follower is slidingly engaged in the crank, one end of the follower is rotatably attached to the cam and other end is attached to the planetary wheel. 42. The tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 40 wherein the centre of gravity is adjusted automatically. 43. The tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 42 further including a remote control unit operably connected to the vehicle, the remote control unit including an automatic climb stair command and a descend stair command. 44. The tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 40 further including a remote control unit operably connected to the vehicle and wherein the centre of gravity is altered responsive to the remote control unit. 