The present invention provides methods for fabricating a sensor on a substrate having a pair of electrodes. The methods are especially amenable to broad variations amongst individual sensor on a single substrate. The intra-sensor variation within the array can be achieved in various fashions. The method provide intra-sensor variation using quantitative and qualitative differences in each sensor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for fabricating an olfactory sensor on a substrate having a pair of electrodes, said method comprising: a) depositing at least one conducting material as a first layer onto said substrate having a pair of electrodes, the first layer being capable of sensing a chemical analyte that contacts the first layer; b) depositing at least one non-conductive or insulating film that is capable of absorbing the chemical analyte that is provided thereon as a second layer, onto said first layer of conducting material, thereby fabricating said sensor; and c) post-processing said second layer after depositing upon said first layer of conducting material, in order to burn-in the olfactory sensor, wherein said olfactory sensor is comprised of at least one sensor composition, and wherein the chemical analyte is absorbed within the second layer so as to make contact with the first layer; and wherein the post-processing comprises: exposing the second layer to either a non-polar substance or a polar substance, wherein the exposing step is performed in cycles over a predetermined time period. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said conducting material comprises carbon black. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said deposition of said conducting material is by aerosol spraying. 4. The method according to claim 2, further comprising drying said carbon black before deposition of said second layer. 5. The method according to claim 2, wherein said carbon black layer has a thickness between about 0.01 micron to about 10 microns. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein said carbon black layer has a thickness between about 0.1 micron to about 1 micron. 7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising depositing said first layer of conducting material through a mask. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein said mask comprises a plurality of apertures. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein said deposition of said first layer of conducting material comprises robotic amateur. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein said deposition of said second layer comprises robotic amateur. 11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising depositing said second layer through a mask. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein said mask comprises a plurality of apertures. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein said post-processing is selected from the group consisting of vacuum processing, photoactive polymerization and cross-linking. 14. The method according to claim 1, wherein said sensor is an array of sensors having a first sensor composition and a second sensor composition, the method further comprising: forming at least one sensor in the array of sensors to have a star-shaped configuration and forming at least another sensor in the array of sensors to have a spiral-shaped configuration. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein said first sensor is compositionally different than said second sensor composition. 16. The method according to claim 14, wherein said first sensor composition has a different polymer film layer than said second sensor composition. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein said substrate comprises a dielectric material. 18. The method according to claim 1, wherein said substrate further comprises a member selected from the group consisting of a heater, a thermistor and a combination thereof. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein said substrate further comprises a member selected from the group consisting of a temperature probe, humidity probe and a combination thereof. 20. The method according to claim 1, wherein the exposing step comprises: exposing the second layer to both the non-polar substance and the polar substance at respective saturated vapor concentrations for the non-polar substance and the polar substance, wherein the exposing step is performed at room temperature. 21. A method for fabricating an olfactory sensor on a substrate having a pair of electrodes, said method comprising: a) depositing a first layer of conducting material onto said substrate having a pair of electrodes to form a substrate having a conducting material disposed thereon, the first layer being capable of sensing a chemical analyte that contacts the first layer; b) drying said substrate having a conducting material disposed thereon to remove any solvent; c) depositing a second layer of non-conductive or insulating film that is capable of absorbing the chemical analyte that is provided thereon, onto said first layer of conducting material, to form a fabricated sensor; and d) post-processing said fabricated sensor to cure said second layer, wherein the chemical analyte is absorbed within the second layer so as to make contact with the first layer, wherein the post-processing comprises: exposing the second layer to either a non-polar substance or a polar substance, wherein the exposing step is performed in cycles over a predetermined time period. 22. The method according to claim 21, wherein said sensor is an array of sensors. 23. The method according to claim 21, wherein said sensor is an array of sensors having a first sensor composition and a second sensor composition, and wherein the method further comprises: forming at least one sensor in the array of sensors to have a star-shaped configuration and forming at least another sensor in the array of sensors to have a spiral-shaped configuration. 24. The method according to claim 21, wherein the exposing step comprises: exposing the second layer to both the non-polar substance and the polar substance at respective saturated vapor concentrations for the non-polar substance and the polar substance, wherein the exposing step is performed at room temperature. 