A lower extremity enhancer to be worn by a user to enable the user to carry a load includes two leg supports having a plurality of jointed links. Proximal ends of the leg supports are connected to a back frame adapted to carry the load. Distal ends of the leg supports are connected to two foot links. The leg supports are powered by a plurality of actuators adapted to apply torques to the leg supports in response to movement of the user's legs.
Claims We claim: 1. A lower extremity enhancer to be worn by a user to enable the user to carry a load, the enhancer comprising: two leg supports having a plurality of jointed links; a back frame adapted to carry the load and connected to proximal ends of the leg supports; two foot links connected to distal ends of the leg supports; and a plurality of mechanical actuators adapted to apply torques to the leg supports in response to movement of the user's legs, wherein each foot link is rotatably jointed to a shank link of each leg support by a spring joint and configured to move in flexion and extension. 2. The enhancer of claim 1, wherein the plurality of jointed links for each leg support comprises a thigh link and a shank link rotatably jointed and configured to move in flexion and extension. 3. The enhancer of claim 2, wherein each foot link is rotatably jointed to the shank link and configured to move in abduction and adduction. 4. The enhancer of claim 2, wherein the thigh link is rotatably jointed to the back frame at a first hip joint configured to move in flexion and extension. 5. The enhancer of claim 4, wherein the thigh link is rotatably jointed to the back frame at a second hip joint configured to move in abduction and adduction. 6. The enhancer of claim 5, wherein the thigh link is rotatably jointed to the back frame at a third hip joint configured to move in rotation. 7. The enhancer of claim 1, wherein the plurality of mechanical actuators comprise an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of electric actuators, hydraulic actuators, and pneumatic actuators. 8. The enhancer of claim 1, further comprising a first set of sensors adapted to detect relative angles between the plurality of jointed links. 9. The enhancer of claim 1, further comprising a second set of sensors adapted to detect actuator torques. 10. The enhancer of claim 1, further comprising a third set of sensors adapted to detect accelerations of the plurality of jointed links. 11. The enhancer of claim 1, further comprising a controller adapted to generate actuator command, wherein the plurality of mechanical actuators respond to the actuator commands to apply torques to the leg supports. 12. The enhancer of claim 11, further comprising a first set of sensors adapted to detect relative angles between the plurality of jointed links, wherein the controller generates the actuator commands based on the relative angles detected by the first set of sensors. 13. The enhancer of claim 11, further comprising a second set of sensors adapted to detect actuator torques, wherein the controller generates the actuator commands based on the actuator torques detected by the second set of sensors. 14. The enhancer of claim 11, further comprising a set of contact sensors configured to measure contact force between the user and the enhancer, wherein the controller generates the actuator commands based on the measurement of contact forces so that the enhancer moves in concert with the user with minimal interaction forces between the user and the enhancer. 15. The enhancer of claim 11, wherein the controller generates the actuator commands using a positive feedback controller. 16. A lower extremity enhancer to be worn by a user to enable the user to carry a load, the lower extremity enhancer comprising: two leg supports having a plurality of joints; a back frame connected to proximal ends of the leg supports, the back frame configured to bear the load to be carried; two foot links connected to distal ends of the leg supports; a first set of sensors connected to the plurality of joints, the first set of sensors configured to detect joint angles of the plurality of joints; a plurality of mechanical actuators disposed on the two legs supports, each one of the plurality of mechanical actuators attached to at least one of the plurality of joints; and a control system connected to the first set of sensors and the plurality of mechanical actuators, the control system configured to control the mechanical actuators to rotate the joints to move the leg supports and the foot links based on the joint angles detected by the first set of sensors, and wherein the control system is configured to regulate the plurality of mechanical actuators to track a desired force. 17. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 16, wherein the plurality of joints comprises: two flexing ankle joints configured to move in flexion and extension; two abducting ankle joints configured to move in abduction and adduction; two knee joints configured to move in flexion and extension; two flexing hip joints configured to move in flexion and extension; two abducting hip joints configured to move in abduction and adduction; and two rotating hip joints configured to move in rotation. 18. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 16, wherein the first set of sensors includes rotary encoders to detect joint angles and velocities, and further comprising accelerometers located adjacent to the joints to detect joint angular acceleration. 19. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 16, further comprising a second set of force sensors that measure both the force applied by the mechanical actuators and the forces applied by the user and/or the environment on the joints. 20. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 16, further comprising a third set of sensors attached to the two foot links to detect the user ground reaction force. 21. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 20, wherein the third set of sensors includes: a first contact switch located at a heel of the foot to detect contact between the heel and the ground; a second contact switch located at a middle of the foot to detect contact between the middle of the foot and the ground; a third contact switch located at a ball of the foot to detect contact between the ball of the foot and the ground; a fourth contact switch located at a toe of the foot to detect contact between the toe of the foot and the ground; and a fifth contact switch located at a tip of the foot to detect contact between the tip of the foot and the ground. 22. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 16, further comprising a fourth set of sensors attached to the back frame. 23. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 22, wherein the fourth set of sensors includes an inclinometer to detect an absolute foot angle. 24. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 22, wherein the fourth set of sensors includes a contact sensor configured to detect contact force between the user and the back frame. 25. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 24, wherein the contact sensor is a multi-axis force/torque sensor. 26. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 18, further comprising: a second set of sensors attached to the plurality of mechanical actuators to detect joint torque applied to the joints by the plurality of mechanical actuators; a third set of sensors attached to the two foot links to detect contact configuration between the foot links and the ground; an inclinometer attached to the back frame, wherein an absolute foot angle is determined based on the inclinometer and the joint angles. 27. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 26, wherein the control system is configured to control the mechanical actuators based on the joint angles, joint velocities, joint angular accelerations, joint torque, contact configuration, and absolute foot angle. 28. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 16, wherein the back frame includes a hip region and a spine region, wherein the proximal ends of the leg supports are connected to the hip region through spring joints. 29. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 16, further comprising: a backpack attached to the back frame to carry the load. 30. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 16, further comprising: a power supply attached to the back frame. 31. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 30, wherein the power supply utilizes a hydrogen peroxide monopropellant. 32. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 16, wherein the control system further comprises: a plurality of remote input/output modules connected to the first set of sensors; a supervisor input/output module connected to the plurality of remote input/output modules; and a digital processor connected to the supervisory input/output module, and configured to receive data from the first set of sensors, implement control algorithms, and output commands to the mechanical actuators. 33. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 32, wherein the remote input/output modules include at least one A/D converter, at least one encoder quadrature counter, and at least one D/A converter. 34. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 32, wherein the digital processor is attached to the back frame. 35. A method of making a lower extremity enhancer to be worn by a user to enable the user to carry a load, the method comprising: obtaining two leg supports having a plurality of jointed links; obtaining a back frame adapted to carry the load; connecting the back frame to proximal ends of the leg supports; obtaining two foot links; connecting the two foot links to distal ends of the leg supports; and attaching a plurality of mechanical actuators to the leg supports, wherein the mechanical actuators are adapted to apply torques to the leg supports in response to movement of the user's legs, and wherein each foot link is rotatably jointed to a shank link of each leg support by a spring joint and configured to move in flexion and extension. 36. A method of operating a lower extremity enhancer to be worn by a user to enable the user to carry a load, the enhancer having: two leg supports having a plurality of joints; a back frame connected to proximal ends of the leg supports, the back frame configured to bear the load to be carried; two foot links connected to distal ends of the leg supports; a first set of sensors connected to the plurality of joints; a plurality of mechanical actuators disposed on the two leg supports, each one of the plurality of mechanical actuators attached to at least one of the plurality of joints; and a control system connected to the first set of sensors and the plurality of mechanical actuators, and the method comprising: detecting joint angles of the plurality of joints using the first set of sensors; controlling the mechanical actuators using the control system to rotate the joints to move the leg supports and the foot links based on the joint angles detected by the first set of sensors; and regulating the mechanical actuators using the control system to track a desired force. 