A portable orthovoltage radiotherapy system is described that is configured to deliver a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, the ocular structures are placed in a global coordinate system based on ocular imaging. In some embodiments, the ocular structures inside the global coordinate system lead to direction of an automated positioning system that is directed based on the ocular structures within the coordinate system.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method, of treating an eye of a patient, comprising: providing a geometric representation of the eye, based, at least in part, on anatomic data obtained by an imaging apparatus; producing a first x-ray beam and a second x-ray beam, each beam having a width of less than about 6 mm; directing the first x-ray beam such that the first beam passes through a first region of a sclera of the eye to a target of a retina; and directing the second x-ray beam such that the second beam passes through a second region of the sclera to substantially the same target of the retina as the first beam, wherein the first region and second region of the sclera are selected based on the geometric representation of the eye; and wherein the first and second x-ray beams are directed such that central axes of the first and second x-ray beams are projected through the sclera at a distance of from about 0.5 mm to about 6 mm from a limbus of the eye. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the directing the first x-ray beam comprises determining a trajectory of the first beam based on the geometric representation of the eye. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the directing of the first x-ray beam and the directing of the second x-ray beam occur sequentially. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the producing comprises producing the first x-ray beam and the second x-ray beam with maximum photon energies of from about 25 keV to about 150 keV. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising administering to the patient at least one of heating, cooling, a VEGF antagonist, a VEGF-receptor antagonist, an antibody directed to VEGF or a VEGF receptor, microwave energy, radiofrequency energy, a laser, a photodynamic agent, a radiodynamic agent, and a therapeutic agent, prior to, or after, the directing of the first x-ray beam. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the producing the first and second x-ray beams is by an x-ray source that is positioned less than about 50 cm from the retina. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second x-ray beams are emitted from an x-ray source having an anode that is placed within about 25 cm of the eye. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising exposing the retina to about 15 Gy to about 25 Gy of x-ray radiation during one treatment session. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising maintaining the eye in substantially the same position during the producing the first x-ray beam and the second x-ray beam. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising tracking a position of the eye during the producing the first x-ray beam and the second x-ray beam and adjusting a trajectory of the first or second x-ray beams based on the position of the eye. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said beam is characterized by regions with higher energy and lower energy. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said retinal target comprises drusen, a macular edema, a tumor, a blood vessel, or an inflammatory membrane. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising imaging the eye, during the producing the first x-ray beam and the second x-ray beam, with at least one of fundoscopy, optical coherence tomography, scanning laser ophthalmoscope, ultrasound imaging systems, CT scans, MRI, PET, slit lamp microscopy systems, video, and still photography. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second beams is directed to cross the pars plana region as it passes through eye tissue. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second x-ray beams are directed such that the x-ray beam paths do not substantially intersect with the optic nerve of the eye. 16. A method, of treating an eye of a patient, comprising: providing a geometric representation of the eye, based, at least in part, on anatomic data obtained by an imaging apparatus; producing a first x-ray beam and a second x-ray beam, each beam having a width of less than about 6 mm; directing the first x-ray beam such that the first beam passes through a first region of the eye to a target within the eye; and directing the second x-ray beam such that the second beam passes through a second region of the eye to substantially the same target within the eye, wherein the first region and second region of the eye are selected based on the geometric representation of the eye; and wherein the first region of the eye comprises a first region of a sclera of the eye and the second region of the eye comprises a second region of the sclera, and an edge-to-edge distance from the first region of the sclera to the second region of the sclera is from about 0.1 mm to about 2 mm. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the target comprises the posterior lens capsule of the eye. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the target comprises the trabecular meshwork of the eye. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the target comprises a region of the retina. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the target comprises a tumor of the eye. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein the first region comprises the cornea of the eye. 22. The method of claim 16, wherein the producing comprises producing the first x-ray beam and the second x-ray beam with maximal photon energies of from about 25 keV to about 150 keV. 23. The method of claim 16, further comprising collimating the first and second x-ray beams with a collimator positioned within about 15 cm of the eye. 24. The method of claim 16, wherein the first and second x-ray beams are emitted from an x-ray source positioned within about 15 cm of the eye. 25. The method of claim 16, further comprising moving an x-ray source within about 15 cm of the eye. 26. The method of claim 16, wherein the first and second x-ray beams are directed from a nasal region external to the eye. 27. The method of claim 16, further comprising directing the first and second x-ray beams such that they overlap at the macular region, wherein the first and second x-ray beams are collimated to a diameter of less than about 6 mm. 