High throughput methods for screening genetic variants that are phenotypically distinguishable are provided. Methods for identifying "long-lived" genetic variants among a set of variants are also provided. Methods for identifying pharmaceutical compounds that can promote longevity in various subjects, including mammals, and that can delay the onset of various diseases associated with aging are also provided. Various vectors and host cells containing identified genes/gene products are useful for screening longevity-promoting compounds that can interact with life-span-regulating genes/gene products. Pharmaceutical compositions that can promote longevity are also provided.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A high throughput method for screening a genetic variant for a long-lived phenotype of interest, the method comprising: providing a set of unknown genetic variants, iteratively, for each genetic variant in the set of genetic variants; selecting a number N of cells for the genetic variant; quantitatively measuring replicative life span (RLS) for each of the N cells of the genetic variant and determining the mean replicative life span of the N cells; and classifying the genetic variant as positive, negative, or ambiguous for a long-lived phenotype of interest, wherein the variant is positive if the mean RLS value exceeds a positive threshold value, negative if the mean RLS value is below a negative threshold value, and ambiguous if the mean RLS value is neither above the positive threshold value nor below the negative threshold value. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising establishing the negative threshold value by determining the mean life span value of a statistically reliable set of a wildtype reference, and establishing the positive threshold value by determining the mean life span value of a statistically reliable set of variants exhibiting a life span substantially greater than that of the wildtype reference. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the positive variant has a mean replicative life span substantially greater than the mean replicative life span of a wildtype reference, and wherein the negative variant has a mean replicative life span less than the mean replicative life span of the wildtype reference. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the mean replicative life span of the positive variant is at least about 20% greater than the mean replicative life span of the wildtype reference. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the number of cells N is an integer greater than 3 and less than 20 and the variant is a yeast strain containing a mutation that affects the expression of at least one gene. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein determining the number of cells N further comprises minimizing the classification of a positive variant having a mean replicative life span substantially greater than that of a wildtype reference as a negative variant; and minimizing the classification of a negative variant having a mean replicative life span less than that of the wildtype reference as a positive variant. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein measuring replicative life span further comprises: establishing a first dataset that includes replicative life span values for N cells of a variant, wherein the replicative life span value for each cell of N is included; establishing a second dataset by selecting a subset of the first dataset, wherein the second dataset includes between one and N-1 of the highest replicative life span values observed for the first dataset; determining the mean replicative of the second dataset; and utilizing the mean replicative life span of the second dataset in classifying the variant. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the method further comprises: iteratively computing mean replicative life span for one or more additional genetic variants; computing a median replicative life span for the set of genetic variants; computing an average median mean replicative life span for the set of genetic variants; and normalizing the mean replicative life span for each variant. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein normalizing further comprises multiplying the computed mean replicative life span for each variant by a coefficient value, wherein the coefficient value is computed by dividing the median replicative life span for the set of genetic variants by the average median mean replicative life span for the set of genetic variants. 10. A method for identifying genes having life-span-regulating activity, the method comprising: identifying a gene that is differentially expressed in a variant classified as positive or negative according to the method of claim 1 relative to a wild-type reference; comparing the replicative lifespan (RLS) of the variant with the RLS measured under conditions in which expression of the gene is suppressed, wherein the gene has life-span regulating activity if the RLS is significantly different when expression of the gene is suppressed. 