An explosive and narcotics detection system detects the presence of trace particles of materials that are adhering to surfaces. In order to detect such particles, to the particles are first dislodged or released from the surface, then transported to the detection instrument, and then accumulated on or in a particle collection device. When the sample collecting system and the target surface are in relative motion across the line-of-sight greater than fifteen centimeters per second, non-contact sample collection may be accomplished using a vortex or vortex attractor particle collector together with a plurality of air or aerosol jets. A plurality of large diameter vortex collectors may obtain samples at relative line-of-sight velocities greater than five feet per second over a large surface area and for a complex-shaped surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for non-contact collection of trace particles of explosives or narcotics from a target surface, comprising: releasing said trace particles from the target surface; providing transport for said trace particles that includes a vortex directed outwardly towards said target surface, wherein said vortex projects from an exit orifice for an outwardly blowing and spinning gas flow that is concentric with an inwardly flowing gas and air flow; collecting said trace particles from said inwardly flowing gas and air flow, wherein a relative velocity across the line-of-sight between said target surface and said exit orifice for said outwardly blowing and spinning gas flow is greater than 15 centimeters per second. 2. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 1, wherein said releasing said particles includes use of a jet that is at least one of: a jet of gas and an aerosol jet. 3. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 2, wherein said jet is directed towards the area on said target surface that is within the portion of said vortex that is the inwardly flowing gas and air flow. 4. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 2, wherein said jet blows said trace particles into said inwardly flowing gas and air flow. 5. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 1, wherein said outwardly blowing and spinning gas flow rotates about the axis defined by the inwardly flowing gas and air flow. 6. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 5, wherein said gas is at least one of: air, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and argon. 7. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 5, wherein a temperature of said gas of the outwardly blowing and spinning gas flow is at or above ambient temperature. 8. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 5, wherein the outwardly blowing and spinning gas flow contains additive chemicals that enhance detection performance. 9. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 5, wherein said outwardly blowing and spinning gas flow and said inwardly flowing gas and air flow are provided by a unified system. 10. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 9, wherein the unified system is a vortex attractor. 11. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 1, wherein said inwardly flowing gas and air flow forms a partial vacuum of sufficient strength to provide a force directed radially inwards towards the axis defined by the center of the inwardly flowing gas and air flow, said force being substantially equal to the centrifugal force directed radially outwards due to the rotation of the outwardly blowing and spinning gas flow. 12. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 1, wherein said providing said outwardly blowing and spinning gas of said vortex is by at least one of: a gas pump, a fan, an impeller, a blower, an air knife, and a pressurized air supply. 13. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 1, wherein said providing said inwardly flowing gas and air of said vortex is by at least one of: a vacuum pump, a fan, an impeller, and a Venturi vacuum generator. 14. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 1, wherein said exit orifice for said outwardly blowing and spinning gas flow is greater than 3.75 centimeters in diameter. 15. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 1, wherein said collecting said trace particles includes use of at least one of: a mesh filter, a woven three dimensional mesh, a filter made of filter materials, a surface that is chemically coated to enhance adhesion or adsorption, a vortex particle separator, an electrostatic particle collector, a particle impactor, and an engineered material with etched openings to pass gas and air but preferentially retain particles. 16. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of systems for non-contact collection of trace particles are employed in order to increase the sampled area of target surface. 17. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of systems for non-contact collection of trace particles are employed in order to balance suction forces on a lightweight target surface. 18. The method for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of systems for non-contact collection of trace particles are employed in order to decrease the time required to obtain said collection of trace particles. 19. A system for non-contact collection of trace particles of explosives or narcotics from a target surface, comprising: a particle release component that releases the trace particles from the target surface; a particle transport component that transports the trace particles from the target surface, wherein the particle transport component provides a vortex directed outwardly towards the target surface, wherein the vortex projects from an exit orifice for an outwardly blowing and spinning gas flow that is concentric with an inwardly flowing gas and air flow; a particle collection component that collects the trace particles from the inwardly flowing gas and air flow, wherein a relative velocity across the line-of-sight between said target surface and said exit orifice for the outwardly blowing and spinning gas flow is greater than 15 centimeters per second. 20. The system for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 19, wherein particle release component includes a nozzle that outputs at least one of: a jet of gas and an aerosol jet. 21. The system for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 19, wherein the particle transport component includes a vortex sampling system. 22. The system for non-contact collection of trace particles according to claim 19, wherein the particle collection component includes at least one of: a mesh filter, a woven three dimensional mesh, a filter made of filter materials, an absorbent surface that may be chemically coated to enhance adhesion, a vortex particle separator, an electrostatic particle collector, a particle impactor, and an engineered material with etched openings to pass air but retain particles. 