An apparatus for filling vials comprises a shelving unit defining an array of storage locations. The shelving unit may be an array in an XY plane or one or more carousels. A plurality of storage containers are provided, each removably carried by one of the storage locations. A counting and dispensing unit, a source of vials, a label printer and application unit or units, and an output device are also provided. The output device may take a variety of forms such as an output chute, which is preferably used when a capping unit is provided, an output conveyor, a plurality of output lanes, and an output carousel, which may be a dedicated carousel or a portion of the carousel providing the plurality of storage locations. A computer controlled engagement device provides motion in a Z direction. The engagement device may be comprised of a first stage for engaging the storage containers and a second stage for engaging the vials. A computer controlled system carries the engagement device and moves the engagement device in XY directions among the plurality of storage locations, counting and dispensing unit, source of vials, label printer and application unit, and output device. Methods of operating and refilling the vial filling apparatus are also disclosed.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A method for filling vials in an automated prescription filling apparatus, comprising: rotating one of a first and second carousel into a pick position; removing a cassette from the carousel using a first stage of an engagement device and placing the cassette in a counting and dispensing unit; moving a vial from a vial source to a counting and dispensing unit using a second stage of the engagement device, wherein the engagement device is configured to enable simultaneous carrying of the cassette and the vial; dispensing from the cassette into the vial; moving the vial to an output position; and returning the cassette to the carousel. 2. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising selecting between the first and second carousel to rotate into a pick position. 3. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising removing a cassette from the carousel and placing the cassette in an input/output area. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein a cassette is placed in the input/output area for one of refilling, servicing and swapping stock. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said moving the vial to an output position includes selecting an output position based on an order grouping criterion. 6. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising capping the vial after said dispensing. 7. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising printing and applying a label to the vial. 