The invention is directed to a method by exposing at least a portion of a luminescent coating disposed on a surface of an article to ultraviolet light at one or more preselected wavelengths causing said luminescent coating to exhibit a luminescence spectrum, the luminescence spectrum exhibiting a plurality of intensity peaks that have been predetermined to create a standard; determining the intensity of at least two peaks in the luminescence spectrum of the coating; determining a peak intensity ratio of the at least two peaks; comparing the peak intensity ratio determined with the standard; and, classifying the article according to whether or not the peak intensity ratio does or does not match the standard; wherein the luminescent coating is a particulate luminescent composition comprising a rare earth doped fluoride represented by the chemical formula RE.sub.x(Ca.sub.aSr.sub.bBa.sub.c).sub.1-xF.sub.2+x-2yO.sub.y wherein RE represents a three-valent rare-earth element, 0.005.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.20, and 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.2, a+b+c=1, with the proviso at least two of a, b, and c are not equal to zero; the particulate luminescent composition exhibiting a luminescence spectrum having a plurality of intensity peaks at characteristic wavelengths.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising exposing at least a portion of a luminescent coating disposed on a surface of an article to ultraviolet light at one or more preselected wavelengths causing said luminescent coating to exhibit a luminescence spectrum wherein the luminescence spectrum exhibits a plurality of intensity peaks that have been predetermined to create a standard; determining the intensity of at least two peaks in the luminescence spectrum of the coating; determining a peak intensity ratio of at least two peaks; comparing the peak intensity ratio thereby determined with the standard; and, classifying the article according to whether or not the peak intensity ratio does or does not match the standard; wherein the luminescent coating comprises a particulate luminescent composition comprising a rare-earth-doped solid-state solution of alkaline earth fluorides represented by the chemical formula RE.sub.x(Ca.sub.aSr.sub.bBa.sub.c).sub.1-xF.sub.2+x-2yO.sub.y wherein RE represents a three-valent rare-earth element, 0.005.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.20, and 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.2, a+b+c=1, with the proviso at least two of a, b, and c are not equal to zero; the particulate luminescent composition exhibiting a luminescence spectrum having a plurality of intensity peaks at characteristic wavelengths. 2. A method comprising within a first time period, a coater causing to be disposed upon the surface of a first plurality of articles a first luminescent coating producing a first plurality of coated articles; and, within a second time period, the coater causing to be disposed upon the surface of a second plurality of articles a second luminescent coating, thereby producing a second plurality of coated articles; a classifier causing to be exposed at least a portion of one or more of the first or second plurality of coated articles to ultraviolet light at one or more preselected wavelengths thereby causing the coating to exhibit, respectively a first or second luminescence spectrum, each said first or second luminescence spectrum exhibiting a plurality of intensity peaks the wavelengths of the peaks having been predetermined using light comprising the preselected wavelength or wavelengths to create a first standard corresponding to the first plurality of coated articles and a second standard corresponding to the second plurality of coated articles; determining the peak intensity ratio of at least two intensity peaks in the first or second luminescence spectrum of the first or second coating; comparing the peak intensity ratio so determined with, respectively, the first or second standard depending upon whether the coated article is from the first or second plurality of coated articles; and, classifying the article according to whether or not the peak intensity ratio does or does not match the first or second standard, respectively; each said coating comprising a particulate luminescent composition, the particulate luminescent composition comprising a rare-earth-doped solid-state solution of alkaline earth fluorides represented by the chemical formula RE.sub.x(Ca.sub.aSr.sub.bBa.sub.c).sub.1-xF.sub.2+x-2yO.sub.y wherein RE represents a three-valent rare-earth element, 0.005.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.20, and 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.2, a+b+c=1, with the proviso at least two of a, b, and c are not equal to zero; the particulate luminescent composition exhibiting a luminescence spectrum having a plurality of intensity peaks at characteristic wavelengths. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one pair of the plurality of peaks exhibits an intensity ratio with respect to one another that differs by at least 5% from the corresponding peak intensity ratio of the corresponding reference composition. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein at least one pair of the plurality of peaks exhibits an intensity ratio with respect to one another that differs by at least 5% from the corresponding peak intensity ratio of the corresponding reference composition. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the coating further comprises a polymer. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein the first coating and the second coating further comprise a polymer. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein RE is Eu.sup.+3, Tb.sup.+3 or Er.sup.+3. 8. The method of claim 2 wherein RE is Eu.sup.+3, Tb.sup.+3 or Er.sup.+3. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein c=0. 10. The method of claim 2 wherein c=0. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein 0.01.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.10. 12. The method of claim 2 wherein 0.01.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.10. 13. The method of claim 3 wherein the intensity ratios differ by at least 10%. 14. The method of claim 4 wherein the intensity ratios differ by at least 10%. 15. The method of claim 5 wherein the polymer is ethyl cellulose. 16. The method of claim 6 wherein the polymer is ethyl cellulose. 