A multi-chamber processing system is described for depositing materials on multiple workpieces (wafers, display panels, or any other workpieces) at a time in a vacuum chamber. The system includes a sputtering chamber and a separate pre-clean chamber, where wafers can be transferred between the two chambers by a robotic arm without breaking a vacuum. The wafers are mounted one-by-one onto a rotating pallet in the pre-cleaning chamber and sputtering chamber. The pallet is firmly fixed to a rotatable table in the sputtering chamber. Copper tubing in the table couples RF energy to the wafers, and a liquid running through the copper tubing controls the temperature of the wafers. Multiple targets, of the same or different materials, may concurrently deposit material on the wafers as the pallet is rotating. Multiple magnets (one for each target) in the magnetron assembly in the sputtering chamber oscillate over their respective targets for uniform target erosion and uniform deposition on the wafers. An electrically insulated target backing plate between each magnet and a target has a liquid channel running through it for controlling temperature. The distance between the magnets and the targets is made very small by a thin aluminum plate fixed to the bottom segment of the target backing plate by a dip brazing process. Various shields are described to prevent cross-contamination from the targets and prevent the sputtered target material from entering gaps in the chamber and shorting out insulators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sputtering system comprising: a sub-atmospheric pressure chamber; a pallet in the chamber, the pallet having a plurality of workpiece support areas for concurrently supporting a plurality of workpieces on the pallet; a target support surface for supporting a plurality of targets having sputtering surfaces facing the pallet; a rotating table supporting the pallet, the pallet having a bottom surface in thermal and electrical contact with the table; a conduit in thermal contact with the table to control a temperature of the workpieces supported on the pallet, the conduit for having a temperature controlling liquid flowing through it; and a motor for rotating the pallet such that workpieces oppose different target sputtering surfaces at different times during sputtering operations, wherein the conduit comprises a thermally conductive pipe that contacts the table, the pipe rotating with the table, wherein the pallet is secured to the table with screws, wherein screw holes for the screws are located in the workpiece support areas so that sputtered material will be blocked by the workpieces and not be deposited on the screws. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the pipe is electrically conductive and in electrical contact with the table. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising a voltage source for coupling a voltage to the pipe so as to couple the voltage to the pallet. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein the voltage is DC. 5. The system of claim 3 wherein the voltage is at a radio frequency. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the pallet is secured to the table with screws. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the workpiece support areas comprise electrostatic chucks. 8. The system of claim 1 further comprising a heated liquid flowing through the conduit. 9. The system of claim 1 further comprising a cooled liquid flowing through the conduit. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein the motor rotates the pallet while sputtering is being performed. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein the motor stops rotating the pallet while sputtering is being performed. 