A test system for testing memory modules uses vertically-mounted personal computer (PC) motherboards. Many test adaptor boards that contain test sockets for testing memory modules are mounted horizontally across a test bench. Each test adaptor board connects to a motherboard that tests the memory modules in the test sockets. The motherboard is mounted below and perpendicularly to the test adaptor board. The motherboard is modified to extend the memory bus to edge contact pads along an edge of the motherboard. An edge socket on the test adaptor board mates with the edge contact pads to make electrical connection. A robotic arm inserts a memory module into the test socket, allowing the vertically-mounted motherboard to execute programs to test the memory module.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A high-density parallel test system for testing memory modules comprising: a plurality of motherboards, each motherboard being a main board for a computer using memory modules as a memory; test adaptor boards, each coupled to a motherboard in the plurality of motherboards, the test adaptor boards each having a test socket for receiving memory modules for testing by the motherboards, each test adaptor board being a circuit board for electrically connecting a memory module inserted into the test socket to a motherboard attached to the test adaptor board, the motherboard using the memory module inserted into the test socket as a portion of the memory of the motherboard; a plurality of connectors, each connector for electrically connecting one of the test adaptor boards to a motherboard in the plurality of motherboards, wherein the motherboard has a substrate that is substantially perpendicular to the test adaptor board; and a main system interface, coupled to the plurality of motherboards, for commanding the motherboards to test memory modules inserted into a test socket and for receiving test results from the motherboards, whereby the memory modules inserted into the test sockets on the test adaptor boards are tested by motherboards mounted perpendicularly to the test adaptor boards. 2. The high-density parallel test system of claim 1 wherein the test adaptor boards are mounted substantially horizontally along a bench-top surface of the high-density parallel test system; wherein the motherboards are mounted vertically, substantially perpendicular to the bench-top-surface, whereby the test adaptor boards are mounted horizontally but the motherboards are mounted vertically. 3. The high-density parallel test system of claim 2 wherein the motherboards are mounted below the test adaptor boards. 4. The high-density parallel test system of claim 3 wherein a connector in the plurality of connectors comprises an edge socket mounted to a lower surface of one of the test adaptor boards, while the test sockets are mounted to an upper surface of the test adaptor boards; wherein an edge of the motherboard fits into the edge socket to vertically mount the motherboard below the lower surface of the test adaptor board. 5. The high-density parallel test system of claim 4 wherein each motherboard in the plurality of motherboards comprises a modified motherboard, the modified motherboard having a plurality of edge connector pads and an extension of a memory bus that connects to the plurality of edge connector pads; wherein the plurality of edge connector pads are for mating with contacts in the edge socket on the test adaptor board. 6. The high-density parallel test system of claim 5 wherein the motherboard has a memory module socket for receiving a memory module, the memory module socket connected to the memory bus. 7. The high-density parallel test system of claim 3 wherein a connector in the plurality of connectors comprises a card socket mounted to a surface of a motherboard in the plurality of motherboards; wherein an edge of the test adaptor board fits into the card socket to vertically mount the motherboard to the test adaptor board. 8. The high-density parallel test system of claim 7 wherein the card socket is mounted to a component side of the motherboard, the component side having integrated circuits mounted thereon and expansion sockets mounted thereon for expansion boards. 9. The high-density parallel test system of claim 3 further comprising: a robotic arm, responsive to commands from the main system interface, for inserting memory modules into the test sockets. 10. A memory-module tester comprising: a robotic device that moves memory modules from an input stack of untested memory modules to an output stack of tested memory modules; a host computer for controlling the robotic device; a plurality of test stations for testing memory modules that are loaded and unloaded by the robotic device, each test station comprising: a test adaptor board that is a circuit board; a test socket mounted on the test adaptor board, the test socket for receiving a memory module inserted by the robotic device; a motherboard for a personal computer, the motherboard executing a test program in response to commands from the host computer, the test program testing the memory module inserted into the test socket; and a connector between the test adaptor board and the motherboard, the connector connecting the motherboard to the test adaptor board at a substantially perpendicular angle, whereby memory modules are tested by the motherboard that is perpendicularly mounted to the test adaptor board. 11. The memory-module tester of claim 10 wherein the connector is mounted to the test adaptor board or the connector is mounted to the motherboard, the connector making electrical contact between the test adaptor board and the motherboard. 12. The memory-module tester of claim 10 wherein the motherboard is a modified personal computer motherboard having an extended region containing extension traces of a memory bus, the extension traces extending the memory bus for connection to the test adaptor board through the connector. 13. The memory-module tester of claim 12 wherein the extended region contains an insertable edge having contact pads that are coupled to the extension traces, the insertable edge for insertion into the connector. 14. The memory-module tester of claim 10 wherein each test adaptor board further comprises: a second test socket mounted on the test adaptor board, the second test socket for receiving a second memory module inserted by the robotic device, wherein the motherboard tests both the memory module and the second memory module, whereby two memory modules are tested by each motherboard. 15. The memory-module tester of claim 10 wherein the test adaptor boards are horizontally-mounted while the motherboards are vertically-mounted substantially below the test adaptor boards. 16. A multiple-motherboard memory tester comprising: main system means for controlling testing of memory modules on multiple motherboards; a plurality of test station means for testing memory modules, each test station means comprising: test socket means for receiving a memory module for testing; motherboard means, controlled by the main system means, for executing a test program to test a memory module inserted into the test socket means; and test adaptor board means, mounted perpendicularly to the motherboard means, for electrically connecting the test socket means to a memory bus means on the motherboard means; wherein the test adaptor board means is a circuit board that has a substrate that is substantially perpendicular to a substrate of the motherboard means; wherein the multiple-motherboard memory tester has a plurality of the motherboard means, each motherboard means having an attached test adaptor board means with a test socket means, each motherboard means for executing the test program on a different memory module in parallel with other motherboard means, whereby parallel testing of memory modules is performed by the motherboard means that is substantially perpendicular to the test adaptor board means. 17. The multiple-motherboard memory tester of claim 16 further comprising: robotic means, controlled by the main system means, for grasping a memory module and inserting the memory module into the test socket means, the robotic means also for grasping and removing the memory module from the test socket means after completion of the test program, and moving the memory module to an output means for storing tested memory modules when the motherboard means indicates to the main system means that the memory module has passed the test program, whereby the memory modules are moved by the robotic means. 18. The multiple-motherboard memory tester of claim 17 wherein each test station means further comprises: socket means, mounted on the test adaptor board means, for receiving an edge of the motherboard means to make electrical connection. 19. The multiple-motherboard memory tester of claim 18 wherein each motherboard means further comprises: extension means for extending an area of a substrate of the motherboard means; contact pad means, located on the extension means, for making electrical contact to the socket means when the edge of the motherboard means is inserted into the socket means. 20. The multiple-motherboard memory tester of claim 17 wherein each test station means further comprises: card-socket means, mounted on the motherboard means, for receiving an edge of the test adaptor board means to make electrical connection. 