A tomographic system includes a reporting device colocated and juxtaposed an object so that both are ground through grinding to various sectioning depths as the reporting device is ground down exposing a reporting marker along a length of the reporting device for indicating the depth of sectioning for accurate precise depth of grinding well suited for precise sectioned tomographic imaging.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for grinding an object to a depth, the system comprising, a grinder for grinding, an object being ground by the grinder to the depth, a device having a device material with a marker material disposed therein, the device having a bottom surface and having a top surface, the grinder for grinding the top surface into a ground top surface, the marker material being disposed between the ground top surface and the bottom surface during the grinding, the marker material of the device being colocated in depth, the device being juxtaposed to the object, the marker material being exposed in part as a marker on a ground top surface of the device as the device material is ground while the object is being ground, the exposed portion of the marker material being the marker, the exposed portion of the marker being visible on the ground top surface, the bottom surface and the marker material being separated in distance by the device material for defining a relationship for indicating the depth of grinding, the relationship being between a marker position of the exposed portion of the marker material for indicating the depth of the grinding, the marker position on the ground top surface moving across the ground top surface of the device as the device material and the marker material and object are concurrently ground by the grinder, the movement of the marker across the ground top surface of the device as the device and object are being ground defining the relationship between the depth of the grinding and the position of the marker on the ground top surface, and a fixture for rigidly securing the device and object in the colocated and juxtaposed positions during grinding. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein, the movement is a nonretrograde movement. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein, the system is a tomography system, the system further comprising, an imaging station for inspection of the device and object, the imaging station serving to capture an image of the device and object, the image including the marker at the marker position on the ground top surface for indicating the depth of grinding. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein, the system is a tomography system, the system further comprising, an imaging station for inspection of the device and object, the imaging station serving to capture an image of the device and object, the image including the marker at the marker position on the ground top surface for indicating the depth of grinding, the grinding by the grinder and the imaging by the imaging station being repeated for generating a three dimensional data set of the object. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein, the system is a tomography system, the system further comprising, an imaging station for inspection of the device and object, the imaging station serving to capture an image of the device and object, the image including the marker at the marker position on the ground top surface for indicating the depth of grinding, a grinding station comprising the grinder, and a robot for moving the fixture between the grinder station and the imaging station. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein, the system is a tomography system, the system further comprising, an imaging station for inspection of the device and object, the imaging station serving to capture an image of the device and object, the image including the marker at the marker position on the ground top surface for indicating the depth of grinding, a grinding station comprising the grinder, the grinder being an abrasive grinder, and a robot for moving the fixture between the grinder station and the imaging station. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein, the system is a tomography system, the system further comprising, an imaging station for inspection of the device and object, the imaging station serving to capture an image of the device and object, the image including the marker at the marker position on the ground top surface for indicating the depth of grinding, a grinding station comprising the grinder, the grinder being an abrasive grinder, a wash station for washing the object and device for improved imaging, and a robot for moving the fixture between the grinder station and the imaging station and the wash station. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein, the system is a tomography system, the system further comprising, an imaging station for inspection of the device and object, the imaging station serving to capture an image of the device and object, the image including the marker at the marker position on the ground top surface for indicating the depth of grinding, a plurality of grinding stations comprising respective grinders, the grinders being abrasive grinders providing coarse and fine grinding, a wash station for washing and etching the object and device for improved imaging, and a robot for moving the fixture between the grinder station and the imaging station and the wash station. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein, the object and device are rigidly affixed to each other as a specimen. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein, the relationship is selected from the group consisting of linear, logarithmic, nonlinear, and polynomial relationships. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein, the fixture has a scale juxtaposed to the device, the scale directly indicating the depth through alignment of the marker to the scale. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein, the marker material is a horizontal planar film disposed relative to a vertical dimension in depth, the bottom surface is a linear inclined bottom surface, and the relationship is a linear relationship. 13. The system of claim 1 wherein, the marker material is a horizontal planar film disposed relative to a vertical dimension in depth, the bottom surface is a machined linear inclined bottom surface, and the relationship is a linear relationship. 14. The system of claim 1 wherein, the marker material is a metal. 15. The system of claim 1 wherein, the marker material is selected from the group consisting of platinum, palladium, silver, gold, chrome, and nickel. 16. The system of claim 1 wherein, the device has a top portion and a bottom portion between which is disposed the maker material, the object comprising an object material, the top portion and bottom portion are made of the device material, and the device material is softer than the object material. 