A device and method for situating pipette or dispenser tips in a system for manipulating liquid samples, has a robot manipulator for orienting the tips relative to sample containers, drives for moving the robot manipulator and processors for controlling movements and actions of the robot manipulator and/or the tips. At least two tips are situated at an axial distance from each another, on at least two blocks on an arm of the robot manipulator. The axial distance corresponds to a grid spacing of wells of a microplate. At least one of the blocks is individually movable in an X direction and in a Y direction. The method allows time-saving pipetting over of liquid samples between diverse sample containers, such as between sample tubes and microplates having 24, 96, 384, or 1536 wells.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for situating pipette tips in a system for manipulating liquid samples, this device comprising: A robot manipulator for orienting pipette or dispenser tips in an X direction and in a Y direction, which runs essentially in a Z direction perpendicularly to the X and Y direction; in relation to sample containers situated in or on the system; Pipette or dispenser tips, which extend essentially vertically and may be raised and lowered in the Z direction running essentially perpendicularly to the X and Y direction; Drives for moving the robot manipulator; and Processors for controlling the movement and actions of the robot manipulator and/or of the pipette or dispenser tips; Wherein the device comprised at least two blocks situated on an arm of the robot manipulator, on each of which at least two of said pipette or dispenser tips are situated at an axial distance to one another which essentially corresponds to the grid spacing of wells of a microplate, at least one of these blocks--for the alternating interlaced orientation of the pipette or dispenser tips of the two blocks along a shared line--being implemented as individually movable in the X direction and in the Y direction. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the pipette or dispenser tips are fixed immovably on the block supporting them, the block being implemented so it may be raised and lowered in the Z direction. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the pipette or dispenser tips are fixed movably on the block supporting them, each of the pipette or dispenser tips being implemented so it may be raised and lowered individually in the Z direction. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein each two of the blocks are implemented having essentially identical constructions and are situated mirror-reversed to on another. 5. The device according to claim 4, wherein the blocks may be situated neighboring one another and having an intermediate space to one another, so that the pipette or dispenser tips are situated along the shared line. 6. The device according to claim 4, wherein the blocks may be situated mirror symmetrically opposite one another at a distance, so that the pipette or dispenser tips are opposite one another in two spaced lines. 7. The device according to claim 1, wherein the number of the pipette or dispenser tips per block is defined by an integral multiple of the number 2, or by the number 4 or 8. 8. The device according to claim 1, wherein the axial distance between the pipette or dispenser tips in a block is 4.5 mm, 9 mm, or 18 mm. 9. A system for manipulating liquid samples having at least one essentially horizontal work field and sample containers which may be situated thereon, comprises at least one device for situating pipette or dispenser tips according to claim 1. 10. The system according to claim 9, wherein the blocks of the device having the pipette or dispenser tips are movable back and forth in the X direction and in the Y direction in essentially the entire area of the work table. 11. The system according to claim 10, comprising at least one carrier or one rack, on which microplates having wells or sample tubes are positioned. 12. A method for situating pipette or dispenser tips in a system for manipulating liquid samples having a device, which comprises: A robot manipulator for orienting pipette or dispenser tips in an X direction and in a Y direction, which runs essentially in a Z direction perpendicularly to the X and Y direction; in relation to sample containers situated in or on the system; Pipette or dispenser tips, which extend essentially vertically and may be raised and lowered in the Z direction running essentially perpendicularly to the X and Y directions; Drives for moving the robot manipulator; and Processors for controlling the movements and actions of the robot manipulator and/or of the pipette or dispenser tips; Wherein the device comprises at least two blocks situated on an arm of the robot manipulator, on each of which at least two of said pipette or dispenser tips are situated at an axial distance to one another which essentially corresponds to the grid spacing of wells of a microplate, at least one of these blocks--for the alternating interlaced orientation of the pipette or dispenser tips of the two blocks along a shared line--being implemented as individually movable in the X direction and in the Y direction. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein two blocks are situated neighboring one another and having an intermediate space to one another, so that the pipette or dispenser tips are situated along the shared line and assume a second position. 14. The method according to claim 12, wherein the blocks are situated opposite one another mirror symmetrically at a distance, so that the pipette or dispenser tips are opposite in two spaced lines and assume a third position. 15. The method according to claim 12, wherein, by regrouping the blocks, the pipette or dispenser tips--starting from the first position and leading to the second position or to the third position--perform pipetting over and distribution of samples from a 384-well microplate to 96-well microplates. 16. The method according to claim 12, wherein, by regrouping the blocks, the pipette or dispenser tips--starting from the second position or from the third position and leading to the first position--perform pipetting over and consolidation of the liquid samples from 96-well microplates to a 384-well microplate. 