An interface which allows a surgeon to operate multiple surgical devices from a single input device. The input device may be a foot pedal that provides output signals to actuate a number of different surgical devices. The surgical devices may include a robotic arm, a laser, an electrocautery device, or an operating table. The interface has an input channel that is coupled to the input device and a plurality of output channels that are coupled to the surgical devices. The interface also has a select input channel which can receive input commands to switch the input channel to one of the output channels. The select channel may be coupled to a speech interface that allows the surgeon to select one of the surgical devices with a voice command. The surgeon can operate any device by providing an input command which switches the input channel to the desired output channel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: receiving at a switching interface a first input from a mechanical input device, the first input selecting a first surgical apparatus; receiving at the switching interface a second input from a speech interface, the second input selecting a second surgical apparatus; determining that a conflict exists between the first input and the second input; determining a priority between the first input and the second input according to a specified prioritization scheme; and selecting one of the first surgical apparatus and second surgical apparatus according to the determined priority. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the conflict exists between the first input and the second input when the first input and the second input are received at substantially the same time. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the prioritization scheme identifies a particular input channel as having priority to the switching interface. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the prioritization scheme identifies a particular input device as having priority to the switching interface. 5. A method comprising: receiving a control input from a mechanical input device; receiving a voice selection command; converting the voice selection command to a command signal; switching, responsive to the command signal, the control input to one of a first surgical apparatus or a second surgical apparatus to allow for control of a selected surgical apparatus using the mechanical input device; and controlling the surgical apparatus including receiving one or more control inputs including a control input to vary a power of the selected surgical apparatus. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the control input varies the power of a laser. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the control input varies the power of an electrocautery device. 