There is disclosed a tool for engaging, capturing and depositing food items, said tool including: a bracket arranged to couple the tool to a device for imparting controlled movement to the tool, preferably a programmable robot arm; a plurality of penetration pins arranged to facilitate the capture of food items by impalement; a penetration pin support member attached to said bracket and to which are anchored said pins, said pins being arranged such as to extend away from said support member; an ejection member for interacting with said support member, having apertures through which said pins project, means for imparting relative movement between the support member and the ejection member; wherein penetration and capture of said food items is effected by movement of the tool via said device; and wherein deposition of said food items is effected by said relative movement of the support member and the ejection member thereby to push said food items off the end of said pins. Also disclosed is a method of utilizing said tool to create a shingled array of penetrable items.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of compiling and depositing a shingled array of a predetermined number of penetrable food items, using an engaging tool having a bracket arranged to couple the tool to a device for imparting controlled movement to the tool, preferably a programmable robot arm; a plurality of fixed penetration pins arranged to facilitate the capture of food items by impalement; a penetration pin support member attached to said bracket and to which are anchored said pins, said pins being arranged such as to extend away from said support member; an ejection member for interacting with said support member, having apertures through which said pins project, and means for imparting relative movement between the support member and the ejection member, said method including the steps of: a) presenting a plurality of food items on a substantially flat surface; b) positioning said tool above a first item such that two or more pins which are offset from the center of said array of pins are directly above said item; c) lowering said tool such that said offset pins are caused to penetrate substantially through said item thereby to capture it via impalement; d) raising said tool and said captured item and repositioning it above a second item, such that said first item is positioned above said second item in an offset manner, said offset distance being less than the dimension of the first item in the direction of offset; e) repeating steps c) and d) above until the predetermined number of items has been captured; f) positioning said tool above the destination of the array of items; and g) depositing said array by actuating said ejection plate in a downward motion to eject with an ejection member said array of said items from said pins as a group resembling a shingle. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said food items are impaled such that they are captured and held by frictional forces in a position along said pins between the penetrating tip of said pins and said ejection member. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein deposition of said items is effected by actuation of movement of said ejection plate in a relative direction away from said support member, thereby to push said food items off the end of said pins. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said pins are between 0.5 mm and 2.5 mm in diameter. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said pin diameter is about 1 mm. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said the pins are disposed in at least one row, said row or rows consisting of a plurality of relatively evenly spaced pins extending substantially parallel with one another. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein there are two or more rows of nine individual pins, wherein the pins within said rows are spaced apart by between 5mm and 15 mm, preferably about 10 mm, and wherein the rows are spaced apart by between about 15 mm and 35 mm, preferably about 25 mm. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the pins within said rows are spaced apart by about 10 mm, and wherein the rows are spaced apart by about 25 mm. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said ejection member is a plate that is arranged substantially parallel with the adjacent surface of the support member, and wherein said ejection plate moves relatively away from said support member while maintaining a substantially parallel alignment with said member to effect deposition. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the penetration pins extend through individual holes in said ejection plate. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the ejection plate features slots extending from one side of said plate, and wherein said pins extend through said slots. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more actuation devices, such as pneumatic cylinders, hydraulic cylinders or electrical servo-motors, are mounted on said support member and feature extension arms that are connected to said ejection member, wherein extension of said arms actuates said relative motion of said ejection member with respect to said support member. 