Apparatus and a method of preparing fiber preforms disperses fibers and binder on a forming support surface such that the materials are conditioned and then applied to the surface where the composite material solidifies. Reinforcing material, such as fiber, is mixed with binder, such as thermoplastic or thermoset materials, so that the materials adhere. Then, the adhesive mixture is dispersed in a controlled pre-determined weight ratio on the support surface where the mixture sticks to the support surface, cools and solidifies. The deposited mixture can be an open mat having interstices between fibers. The deposited mixture can also be shaped further into a final desired shape before complete solidification. This method eliminates the need for solvents and their associated problems. The process does not require a vacuum or plenum system to hold the reinforcing material in place. The preform can be made in any shape, including sections or asymmetric configurations and remain in mold while being processed to a composite molded article.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end effector for connection to a robot arm for applying a heated adhesive mixture of a binder and a reinforcing fiber to a surface, said effector comprising: a frame support; at least two spaced burners mounted on the frame to produce respective flames, with the two flames being oriented to heat a region disposed therebetween, wherein the at least two spaced burners are elongated, are symmetrically disposed on the frame, extend parallel to one another and are inclined inwardly; a nozzle arrangement for dispensing a mixed stream of binder and reinforcing fiber into the heated region to cause heating of the mixture; a respective manifold associated with each of the at least two spaced burners and having an inlet for a cooling medium connected thereto; and, a respective shield member disposed between each manifold and an associated burner to minimize interaction between the stream of cooling medium and the heated region. 2. The end effector according to claim 1 connected to the robot arm. 3. The end effector according to claim 1 wherein the manifolds are elongated, are symmetrically disposed on the frame, extend parallel to one another, and extend along the length of the associated at least two spaced burners to produce a curtain of cooling medium. 4. The end effector according to claim 3 wherein the shields are elongated, are symmetrically disposed on the frame, and extend parallel to one another. 5. The end effector according to claim 4 wherein the nozzle arrangement includes a venturi tube mounted on the frame between the at least two spaced burners and having an inlet opening for receiving the reinforcing material at one end and a spray pattern outlet nozzle for the mixed stream at its other end, an inlet port extending into the interior of the venturi tube for the introduction of a liquid binder, and an air inlet to the interior of the for the introduction of a carrier gas. 6. The end effector according to claim 5 wherein the outlet nozzle has an elongated shape extending parallel to the extension direction of the at least two spaced burners. 7. The end effector according to claim 6 wherein a pair of said venturi tubes are provided with their output nozzles being axially aligned in the extension direction of the at least two spaced burners. 8. The end effector according to claim 1 wherein the nozzle arrangement includes at least one venturi tube mounted on the frame between the at least two spaced burners, and having an inlet opening for receiving the reinforcing material at one end and a spray pattern outlet nozzle for the mixed stream at its other end, an inlet port extending into an interior of the at least one tube for the introduction of a liquid binder, and an air inlet to the interior of at least one the venturi tube for the introduction of a carrier gas. 9. The end effector according to claim 8 wherein the outlet nozzle has an elongated shape extending parallel to the extension direction of the burners. 10. The end effector according to claim 9 wherein a pair of said venturi tubes are provided with their output nozzles being axially aligned in the extension direction of the at least two spaced burners. 