The present invention relates to an apparatus and method for grasping, retaining, inverting, coating and transporting a plurality of frangible conical confection shells. The present invention also relates to a modular and reconfigurable manufacturing system for producing frozen cone confections and the like.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for grasping a frangible conical confection shell, said apparatus comprising: (a) a mounting plate having first and second sides, said mounting plate having a plurality of apertures adapted to accept a frangible conical confection shell from said first side; (b) a pair of opposed arms associated with each said aperture and attached to said second side of said mounting plate, the opposed arms adapted to be moved between a closed gripping position engaging the confection shell, and an open position releasing the confection shell and wherein each pair of opposed arms associated with each aperture comprises a single loop of flexible material embodying the pair of opposed arms, the single loop of flexible material adapted to be flexed between a relatively open position and a relatively closed position; and (c) an actuator that moves the opposed arms between a closed gripping position whereby the arms engage the confection shell, and an open position releasing the confection shell. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each pair of opposed arms includes flattened surfaces adapted to engage a conical shell. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the actuator that moves said opposed arms comprises at least one actuator plate bearing pairs of fixed pins that engage respective ends of each said loop of flexible material, said actuator plate positioned so as to be capable of moving with respect to said mounting plate so as to cause each said loop of flexible material to flex between a relatively open position and a relatively closed position. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each aperture is provided with a cylindrical cone-holding member extending from the first side of the mounting plate. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1 additionally comprising a transport mechanism adapted to move the mounting plate from a position wherein the conical shell is held in an upright posture to a position wherein the conical shell is held in a inverted posture, and to convey said conical shell while held in said inverted posture. 6. An apparatus for grasping, inverting and a coating material to a portion of a frangible conical confection shell, the apparatus comprising: (a) a mounting plate having first and second sides, the mounting plate having a plurality of apertures adapted to accept a frangible conical confection shell from the first side; (b) a pair of opposed arms associated with each aperture and attached to the second side of the mounting plate, the opposed arms adapted to be moved between a closed gripping position engaging the confection shell, and an open position releasing the confection shell; and (c) an actuator that moves the opposed arms between a closed gripping position whereby the opposed arms engage the confection shell, and an open position releasing the confection shell; (d) a transport mechanism adapted to move the support plate from a position wherein the conical shell is held in an upright posture to a position wherein the conical shell is held in an inverted posture, and to convey the conical shell while held in the inverted posture; and (e) a coating material application device disposed beneath the transport mechanism and arranged so as to contact the coating material with a portion of the conical shell while the conical shell is in the inverted posture. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the coating material application device propels the coating material upward, such that the interior portion of the conical shell is provided with a coating of the material while the conical shell is in the inverted posture. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the coating material application device is selected from the group consisting of sprayers and bubblers. 9. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the coating material application device comprises a liquid bath that is disposed under the transport mechanism and is adapted to be lifted upward so as to provide a liquid coating to the open end edge of the conical shell. 10. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein each pair of opposed arms associated with each aperture comprises a single loop of flexible material embodying the pair of opposed arms, the single loop of flexible material adapted to be flexed between a relatively open position and a relatively closed position. 11. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein each pair of opposed arms includes flattened surfaces adapted to engage a conical shell. 12. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the actuator that moves said opposed arms comprises at least one actuator plate bearing pairs of fixed pins that engage respective ends of each said loop of flexible material, said actuator plate positioned so as to be capable of moving with respect to said mounting plate so as to cause each said loop of flexible material to flex between a relatively open position and a relatively closed position. 13. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein each aperture is provided with a cylindrical cone-holding member extending from the first side of the mounting plate. 