A system for packaging articles includes a first collection area for receiving and arranging a plurality of articles having a substantially non-uniform geometry. A transport device is included and a consolidation area for constructing an article layer, each article layer constructed from the plurality of arranged articles transported from the first collection area by the transport device. The consolidation area includes a stabilizer providing substantially continuous lateral support along the periphery of arranged articles of the article layer being constructed to substantially prevent tipping of the plurality of arranged articles. A portion of the arranged articles transported by the transport device is oriented differently from the other arranged articles.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for packaging articles, the steps comprising: arranging a plurality of articles having a substantially non-uniform geometry within a first collection area; transporting the plurality of articles from the first collection area to a consolidation area for constructing an article layer; laterally supporting the periphery of the plurality of articles arranged within the consolidation area to substantially prevent tipping of the plurality of articles; arranging a subsequent plurality of articles within the first collection area; transporting the subsequent plurality of articles from the first collection area to the consolidation area adjacent the plurality of arranged articles, the periphery of the plurality of arranged articles being continuously laterally supported while the subsequent plurality of articles is being arranged, the orientation of the subsequent plurality of articles being different than the orientation of the plurality of arranged articles, and upon the arrangement of the subsequent plurality of articles, the periphery of the plurality of arranged and subsequently arranged articles being laterally supported; repeating the arranging and transporting steps for subsequent plurality of articles until the article layer is constructed; and substantially enclosing the article layer in a layer of resilient material substantially maintaining the arrangement of the article layer. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the difference of orientation between the subsequent plurality of articles and the plurality of arranged articles results in an increased volumnar density of the article layer. 3. The method of claim 1 including the step of arranging subsequent enclosed article layers until a full pallet of enclosed article layers is constructed. 4. The method of claim 3 further including the step of placing a slip sheet between article layers. 5. The method of claim 4 further including the step of placing a top sheet or a tray over the top article layer. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein in the transporting step, the subsequent plurality of articles is inverted with respect to the orientation of the plurality of arranged articles. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of laterally supporting the periphery of the plurality of articles is achieved by a stabilizer. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein in the step of transporting the subsequent plurality of articles, a portion of the periphery of the plurality of arranged articles is laterally supported by the subsequent plurality of articles while the subsequent plurality of articles is being arranged. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein in the step of transporting the subsequent plurality of articles, the periphery of the plurality of arranged and subsequently arranged articles is laterally supported by a stabilizer. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of transporting the subsequent plurality of articles includes arranging the subsequent plurality of articles in a row that is substantially parallel to the row formed by the plurality of arranged articles. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of transporting the subsequent plurality of articles includes arranging the subsequent plurality of articles in a row that is substantially aligned with the row formed by the plurality of arranged articles. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of transporting the plurality of articles includes arranging the plurality of articles in a row. 13. A system for packaging articles comprising: a first collection area for receiving and arranging a plurality of articles having a substantially non-uniform geometry; a transport device; a consolidation area for constructing an article layer, each article layer constructed from the plurality of arranged articles transported from the first collection area by the transport device, the consolidation area including a stabilizer providing substantially continuous lateral support along the periphery of arranged articles of the article layer being constructed to substantially prevent tipping of the plurality of arranged articles; an area for substantially enclosing the article layer in a layer of material; wherein a portion of the arranged articles transported by the transport device is oriented differently from the other arranged articles; and wherein the article enclosing area includes a material layer source in association with a material layer tensioning device. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the periphery of the article layer is continuously laterally supported while the article layer is being enclosed in the material layer to substantially maintain the arrangement of the enclosed article layer. 15. The system of claim 13 wherein the material layer tensioning device is gravity driven. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein the material layer tensioning device includes an axle disposed on a ramp and in a looped engagement with the material layer, wherein the axle is configured and disposed to traverse the ramp by force of gravity to increase the size of the loop sufficient for enclosing a portion of the article layer with the material layer. 17. The system of claim 16 includes a proximity switch disposed at a predetermined position along ramp for indicating proper operation of the material layer tensioning device. 18. The system of claim 16 comprising a pair of material layer tensioning devices, each material layer tensioning device associated with a material layer source, one material layer source associated with enclosing an upper portion of the article layer, the other material layer source associated with enclosing a lower portion of the article layer. 