A surface inspection system, as well as related components and methods, are provided. The surface inspection system includes a beam source subsystem, a beam scanning subsystem, a workpiece movement subsystem, an optical collection and detection subsystem, and a processing subsystem. The signal processing subsystem comprises a series of data acquisition nodes, each dedicated to a collection detection module and a plurality of data reduction nodes, made available on a peer to peer basis to each data acquisition nodes. Improved methods for detecting signal in the presence of noise are also provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A surface inspection system for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system comprising: an optical collection and detection subsystem having a plurality of collection and detection modules for collecting light produced by impingement of an incident beam on the surface, and generating signals in response to the light; and a processing subsystem operatively coupled to the collection and detection subsystem for processing the signals, the processing system having a data acquisition system comprising a plurality of data acquisition nodes, each of said data acquisition nodes having associated therewith one of the collection and detection modules in the optical collection and detection subsystem; a data reduction system comprising a plurality of data reduction nodes; a communication network connecting the data acquisition system to the data reduction system so that each of said data reduction nodes is available on a peer to peer basis to each of the plurality of data acquisition nodes; wherein the plurality of collection and detection modules comprises: a front collection and detection module; a center collection and detection module; a pair of wing collection and detection modules; and a pair of back collection and detection modules. 2. The surface inspection system of claim 1, wherein one of said data reduction nodes comprises dual PC-type processors in the workstation class. 3. The surface inspection system of claim 1, wherein one of said data reduction nodes comprises a processing system having a 64-bit architecture. 4. The surface inspection system of claim 1, wherein said data reduction nodes comprise blade processors; and the data reduction system comprises a series of said blade processors mounted in a rack. 5. The surface inspection system of claim 1, wherein the communication network comprises an Ethernet type communication system. 6. The surface inspection system of claim 1, wherein the communication network comprises a Serial PCI compatible, switched interconnect communication system. 7. The surface inspection system of claim 1, wherein the Serial PCI compatible, switched interconnect communication system is based on an open interconnect standard. 8. The surface inspection system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of collection and detection modules comprises a slit positioned between each of the detection subsystems and the collection subsystems. 9. The surface inspection system of claim 8, wherein the slit on the front and back collection and detection modules are disposed at an appropriate Schiempflug angle to match the angle of a test object surface plane. 10. The surface inspection system of claim 1, wherein a data reduction module is coupled to each of the plurality of collection and detection modules. 11. A surface inspection system for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system comprising: an optical collection and detection subsystem having a plurality of collection and detection modules for collecting light produced by impingement of an incident beam on the surface, and generating signals in response to the light; and a processing subsystem operatively coupled to the collection and detection subsystem for processing the signals, the processing system having a data acquisition system comprising a plurality of data acquisition nodes, each of said data acquisition nodes having associated therewith one of the collection and detection modules in the optical collection and detection subsystem; a data reduction system comprising a plurality of data reduction nodes, each of said nodes constituting a potential computing destination for each of said data acquisitions nodes; and a communication network connecting the data acquisition system to the data reduction system to provide each of said data acquisition nodes with access to each of said data reduction nodes; wherein the plurality of collection and detection modules comprises: a front collection and detection module; a center collection and detection module; a pair of wing collection and detection modules; and a pair of back collection and detection modules. 12. A surface inspection system as recited in claim 11, wherein the communication network provides simultaneous access by the data acquisition nodes to at least two data reduction nodes to allow for simultaneous access to data by more than one of said data reduction nodes. 13. A surface inspection system as recited in claim 11, wherein the communication network provides simultaneous access by the data reduction nodes to at least two data acquisition nodes to allow for simultaneous access to data from more than one of said data acquisition nodes. 14. A surface inspection system according to claim 13, wherein the processing subsystem comprises a channel formation capability for formation of channels from a combination of at least two of the collection and detection modules, and wherein the simultaneous access by the data reduction nodes to at least two data acquisition nodes comprises simultaneous access by a reduction node to the combination of at least two of the collection and detection modules. 15. A surface inspection system as recited in claim 11, wherein the communication network provides simultaneous access by the data reduction nodes to at least two data acquisition nodes to allow for simultaneous access to data from more than one of said data acquisition nodes. 16. A surface inspection system as recited in claim 11, wherein the processing subsystem further comprises a tandem analysis capability for performing a first analysis in tandem with a second analysis. 17. A surface inspection system as recited in claim 11, wherein the first analysis comprises analysis of summed output, comprising output associated with all of the collection and detection modules, and wherein the second analysis comprises an analysis in which output associated with each of the wherein the collection and detection modules is analyzed individually. 18. The surface inspection system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of collection and detection modules comprises a slit positioned between each of the detection subsystems and the collection subsystems. 19. The surface inspection system of claim 18, wherein the slit on the front and back collection and detection modules are disposed at an appropriate Schiempflug angle to match the angle of a test object surface plane. 20. the surface inspection system of claim 11, wherein a data reduction module is coupled to each of the plurality of collection and detection modules. 21. A surface inspection system for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system comprising: an optical collection and detection subsystem having a plurality of collection and detection modules for collecting light produced by impingement of an incident beam on the surface, and generating signals in response to the light; and a processing subsystem operatively coupled to the collection and detection subsystem for processing the signals, the processing system having a data acquisition system comprising a plurality of data acquisition nodes, each of said data acquisition nodes having associated therewith one of the collection and detection modules in the optical collection and detection subsystem; a data reduction system comprising a plurality of data reduction nodes, each of said nodes constituting a potential computing destination for each of said data acquisitions nodes; and a communication network connecting the data acquisition system to the data reduction system to provide each of said data acquisition nodes with access to each of said data reduction nodes; wherein the plurality of collection and detection modules comprises: a front collection and detection module; a center collection and detection module; a pair of wing collection and detection modules; and a pair of back collection and detection modules. 22. The surface inspection system of claim 21, wherein the plurality of collection and detection modules comprises a slit positioned between each of the detection subsystems and the collection subsystems. 23. The surface inspection system of claim 22, wherein the slit on the front and back collection and detection modules are disposed at an appropriate Schiempflug angle to match the angle of a test object surface plane. 24. The surface inspection system of claim 21, wherein a data reduction module is coupled to each of the plurality of collection and detection modules. 25. A surface inspection system for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system comprising: an optical collection and detection subsystem having a plurality of collection and detection modules for collecting light produced by impingement of an incident beam on the surface, and generating signals in response to the light; and a processing subsystem operatively coupled to the collection and detection subsystem for processing the signals, the processing system having a data acquisition system comprising a plurality of data acquisition nodes, each of said data acquisition nodes having associated therewith one of the collection and detection modules in the optical collection and detection subsystem; a data reduction system comprising a plurality of data reduction nodes; a communication network connecting the data acquisition system to the data reduction system so that each of said data reduction nodes is available on a peer to peer basis to each of the plurality of data acquisition nodes, wherein the optical collection and detection subsystem comprises at least one light channel collection and detection module and at least one dark channel collection and detection module wherein the outputs from the at least one light channel collection and detection module and at least one dark channel collection and detection module are connected through an associated amplifier to the input of a filtering unit comprising an A/D and a processing unit data acquisition. 26. The surface inspection system of claim 25, wherein the at least one light channel collection and detection module comprises a quad cell detector, wherein the quad cell detector comprises: an extinction element; a radial element; a tangential element; and a height/reflected power element. 27. The surface inspection system of claim 26, wherein the at least one light channel collection and detection module comprises a quad cell detector, wherein the quad cell detector comprises: an extinction element; a radial element; a tangential element; and a height/reflected power element. 28. A surface inspection system for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system comprising: an optical collection and detection subsystem having a plurality of collection and detection modules for collecting light produced by impingement of an incident beam on the surface, and generating signals in response to the light; and a processing subsystem operatively coupled to the collection and detection subsystem for processing the signals, the processing system having a data acquisition system comprising a plurality of data acquisition nodes, each of said data acquisition nodes having associated therewith one of the collection and detection modules in the optical collection and detection subsystem; a data reduction system comprising a plurality of data reduction nodes, each of said nodes constituting a potential computing destination for each of said data acquisitions nodes; and a communication network connecting the data acquisition system to the data reduction system to provide each of said data acquisition nodes with access to each of said data reduction nodes; wherein the optical collection and detection subsystem comprises at least one light channel collection and detection module and at least one dark channel collection and detection module wherein the outputs from the at least one light channel collection and detection module and at least one dark channel collection and detection module are connected through an associated amplifier to the input of a filtering unit comprising an A/D and a processing unit data acquisition. 29. A surface inspection system for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system comprising: an optical collection and detection subsystem having a plurality of collection and detection modules for collecting light produced by impingement of an incident beam on the surface, and generating signals in response to the light; and a processing subsystem operatively coupled to the collection and detection subsystem for processing the signals, the processing system having a data acquisition system comprising a plurality of data acquisition nodes, each of said data acquisition nodes having associated therewith one of the collection and detection modules in the optical collection and detection subsystem; a data reduction system comprising a plurality of data reduction nodes, each of said nodes constituting a potential computing destination for each of said data acquisitions nodes; and a communication network connecting the data acquisition system to the data reduction system to provide each of said data acquisition nodes with access to each of said data reduction nodes; wherein the optical collection and detection subsystem comprises at least one light channel collection and detection module and at least one dark channel collection and detection module wherein the outputs from the at least one light channel collection and detection module and at least one dark channel collection and detection module are connected through an associated amplifier to the input of a filtering unit comprising an A/D and a processing unit data acquisition. 30. The surface inspection system of claim 29, wherein the at least one light channel collection and detection module comprises a quad cell detector, wherein the quad cell detector comprises: an extinction element; a radial element; a tangential element; and a height/reflected power element. 