A front-loading, refuse collecting vehicle is modularly provided with a combination of a low-profile, front-loadable waste bin (intermediate container) and one or more, side-loading robotic arms. To reduce mechanical stresses along couplings between the vehicle and the combination of the intermediate container and the robotic arm(s), a major portion of the mass of the robotic arm mechanism is situated to the rear of the intermediate container so that a mass and beam combination is defined where the mass-supporting beam has reduced length. More specifically, hydraulic and/or other relatively massive motor means of the robotic arm mechanism are mounted to the rear of a refuse-containing wall of the intermediate container. Elastomeric and/or other dampening means may be interposed between the vehicle and the bulk mass of the combination of the intermediate container and robotic arm mechanism for converting into heat some of the vibrational energy which may otherwise move between the vehicle and the combination of the intermediate container and robotic arm mechanism. A modular sled system may be provided for supporting different robotic arms in combination with refuse containers made of different materials as may be appropriate for different waste collection situations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for reducing transfer of mechanical vibrations between a front-loading, waste collecting vehicle and a combination of a fork-liftable refuse container and a side-loading robotic arm mechanism, where the vehicle has frontwardly extending forks for supporting said combination of the container and the side-loading robotic arm mechanism; said vibration reducing method comprising: (a) situating a majority of mass of the side-loading robotic arm mechanism rearwardly of a rearmost, refuse-containing wall of the container; (b) providing the container with fork-receiving pocket means attached to sides of the container for receiving the forks of the front-loading vehicle; and (c) providing clearance assuring means for spacing the rearwardly-mounted major-mass portion of the robotic arm mechanism in front of a hypothetical clearance plane, where the hypothetical clearance plane extends through rear end points of the forks of the front-loading vehicle when the forks are operatively inserted in the fork-receiving pocket means. 2. The vibration reducing method of claim 1 and further comprising: (d) including in the fork-receiving pocket means, a vibration dampener interposed between a fork-engaging portion and a container-supporting portion of the fork-receiving pocket means. 3. A method for simultaneously collecting waste items situated on opposed sides of a driveway, the method comprising: (a) providing an integrally-liftable combination of a refuse container and a side-loading robotic arm mechanism, where the robotic arm mechanism has at least first and second multi-axis robotic arms each configured to automatically reach out in a respective one of opposed first and second sideways directions relative to the container to grasp waste items located to the respective side of the container, and to translate the grasped waste items for automatic deposit into the container, where the integrally-liftable combination of the refuse container and the side-loading robotic arm mechanism are liftably supported by a waste collection vehicle such that the combination moves in unison in an over-a-top dump operation performed by the vehicle; and (b) selectively actuating each of the first and second robotic arms while driving said vehicle in a given direction along the driveway so as to automatically grasp waste items situated on the opposed sides of the driveway. 4. The collection method of claim 3 and further comprising: (c) providing the multi-arm robotic arm mechanism with a plurality of motors for mechanically driving at least the reaching-out, grasping and further translating actions of said first and second multi-axis robotic arms, and situating at least two of said plural motors rearward of a rearmost refuse-containing wall of the container. 5. A method for using a robot-assisted waste collecting system where the system has a container having a rear and a front, the container defining a refuse containment volume, the system further having a user interface and a waste-fetching and disposing robot that can deposit fetched waste into said refuse containment volume, where a major portion of the mass of said robot is interposed between said user interface and said refuse containment volume, the method of using the system comprising: (a) inserting lifting forks frontwardly from the rear of the container for supporting at least the weight of the container on the inserted forks and for further supporting on the forks, the weight of the robot, and the weight of waste fetched by the robot and disposed by the robot into the refuse containment volume of the container; and (b) operatively coupling the combination of said container and robot to a vibration dampener interposed between the lifting forks and the combination, where the dampener includes a plurality of metal inner sleeves for respectively engaging with each of the forks. 6. A refuse collecting method comprising: (a) using a waste collecting vehicle to integrally lift a combination of a side-loading robotic arm mechanism and an intermediate refuse container and to move the lifted combination forward and roughly parallel to a curb-side of a driveway that can have refuse provided by its curb-side, where said refuse container defines a total refuse containment volume into which the robotic arm mechanism can deposit side-loaded refuse during collections of refuse from curb-side locations spaced away from a curb-adjacent side of the intermediate refuse container; and (b) causing during said collections of refuse from the curb-side locations, at least a major mass portion of the lifted robotic arm mechanism to be disposed between said total refuse containment volume and the waste collecting vehicle. 7. The refuse collecting method of claim 6 and comprising: (c) causing said side-loading robotic arm mechanism to reach out to the spaced away curb-side locations, grasp refuse or refuse containers located thereat, and to thereafter retract and deposit the refuse into said total refuse containment volume. 8. The refuse collecting method of claim 7 wherein said major mass portion of the lifted robotic arm mechanism includes at least first and second motors and wherein said portion of step (c) of causing the side-loading robotic arm mechanism to retract includes: (c.1) actuating said first motor to provide power for said retracting operation of the side-loading robotic arm mechanism. 9. The refuse collecting method of claim 8 wherein said portion of step (c) of causing the side-loading robotic arm mechanism to deposit the refuse into said total refuse containment volume includes: (c.2) actuating the second motor to provide power for said depositing operation of the side-loading robotic arm mechanism. 10. The refuse collecting method of claim 9 wherein said major mass portion of the lifted robotic arm mechanism includes a third motor and wherein said portion of step (c) of causing the side-loading robotic arm mechanism to grasp the refuse or the refuse containers includes: (c.3) actuating the third motor to provide power for said grasping operation of the side-loading robotic arm mechanism. 11. A method of producing a side-loading robotic arm mechanism having mass and being configured for use in front loading refuse collection runs performed by a forward driving collection vehicle that liftingly supports the mass of the robotic arm mechanism during said refuse collection runs, where said producing of the robotic arm mechanism enables at least a portion of the mass of the robotic arm mechanism to be situated rearward of a total refuse containment volume defined by an intermediate refuse container that is further liftingly supported by the collection vehicle during the front loading collection runs, where the intermediate refuse container is disposed in front of the collection vehicle during said front loading refuse collection runs, where said lifting support of the robotic arm mechanism and the intermediate refuse container includes an ability to integrally lift the robotic arm mechanism and the intermediate refuse container in unison relative to the vehicle, and where the robotic arm mechanism is configured to be able to deposit refuse into the total refuse containment volume by reaching out toward a curb area located adjacent to a curb-side portion of the intermediate refuse container and retrieving refuse from the curb area, the method comprising: (a) manufacturing a reciprocating member of the side-loading robotic arm mechanism so that the reciprocating member is structured to cause a refuse grasping portion of the robotic arm mechanism to translate outwardly to a refuse holding curb area located to the right of the forward driving vehicle for grasping refuse or a refuse-containing basket located in the refuse holding curb area: and (b) manufacturing a forearm structured to locate said refuse grasping portion and a portion of the forearm conformably adjacent to a curbside portion of the intermediate refuse container during part of said refuse collection runs. 12. A method of producing a side-loading robotic arm mechanism having mass and being configured for use in front loading refuse collection runs performed by a forward driving collection vehicle that liftingly supports the mass of the robotic arm mechanism during said refuse collection runs, where said producing of the robotic arm mechanism enables at least a portion of the mass of the robotic arm mechanism to be situated rearward of a total refuse containment volume defined by an intermediate refuse container that is further liftingly supported by the collection vehicle during the front loading collection runs, where the intermediate refuse container is disposed in front of the collection vehicle during said front loading refuse collection runs, where said lifting support of the robotic arm mechanism and the intermediate refuse container includes an ability to integrally lift the robotic arm mechanism and the intermediate refuse container in unison relative to the vehicle, and where the robotic arm mechanism is configured to be able to deposit refuse into the total refuse containment volume by reaching out toward a curb area located adjacent to a curb-side portion of the intermediate refuse container and retrieving refuse from the curb area, the method comprising: (a) manufacturing a reciprocating member of the side-loading robotic arm mechanism so that the reciprocating member is structured to cause a refuse grasping portion of the robotic arm mechanism to translate outwardly to a refuse holding curb area located to the right of the forward driving vehicle for grasping refuse or a refuse-containing basket located in the refuse holding curb area; and (b) manufacturing a rotating mechanism that can rotate a forearm of said refuse grasping portion to thereby arc an item grasped by the grasping portion from the refuse holding curb area located to the right of the vehicle over the right side of the intermediate container to a height above a top portion of the intermediate container. 13. A method of producing a side-loading robotic arm mechanism having mass and being configured for use in front loading refuse collection runs performed by a forward driving collection vehicle that liftably supports the mass of the robotic arm mechanism during said refuse collection runs, where said producing of the robotic arm mechanism enables at least a portion of the mass of the robotic arm mechanism to be situated rearward of a total refuse containment volume defined by an intermediate refuse container that is further liftably supported by the collection vehicle during the front loading collection runs, where the intermediate refuse container is disposed in front of the collection vehicle during said front loading refuse collection runs, where said liftable support provided by the vehicle for the robotic arm mechanism and the intermediate refuse container includes an ability to integrally lift the robotic arm mechanism and the intermediate refuse container in unison relative to the vehicle, and where the robotic arm mechanism is configured to be able to deposit refuse into the total refuse containment volume by reaching out toward a curb area located adjacent to a curb-side portion of the intermediate refuse container and retrieving refuse from the curb area, the method comprising: (a) manufacturing a forearm structured to allow a refuse grasping portion of the robotic arm mechanism to translate outwardly to a refuse holding curb area located to the right of the vehicle for grasping refuse or a refuse-containing basket located in the refuse holding curb area and structured to allow the refuse grasping portion to retract into a conformal side-hugging state adjacent a right side of the intermediate refuse container. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said producing of the robotic arm mechanism enables at least a major portion of the mass of the robotic arm mechanism to be situated rearward of a total refuse containment volume. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein said forearm includes an L-shaped portion that is translatable by the robotic arm mechanism to conformably fit about a corner formed by an edge of the right side of the intermediate refuse container. 16. A method of providing a side-loading robotic arm mechanism to be operable with a supplied front-loading refuse collection bin so that during refuse collection runs performed by a supplied, co-compatible and forward driving collection vehicle, a major mass portion of the robotic arm mechanism is situated in front of a front portion of the collection vehicle and a rear of a total refuse containing volume of the collection bin such that the robotic arm mechanism can deposit refuse that is robotically lifted from a side area adjacent to the bin into said total refuse containing volume and where the method comprises: (a) providing first couplings for operatively positioning the major mass portion of the robotic arm mechanism to be situated behind said total refuse containing volume while the supplied forward driving collection vehicle is driving forward during a side-loading collection run; and (b) providing second couplings for operatively positioning the major mass portion of the robotic arm mechanism to be safely situated forward of the front portion of the collection vehicle so that the major mass portion of the robotic arm mechanism is not normally damaged by collision with said collection vehicle. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the collection vehicle has forward extending forks and said second couplings fixedly position the major mass portion of the robotic arm mechanism relative to the forks so as to thereby assure that the major mass portion is not damaged by collision with said collection vehicle. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said second couplings include positioning pins that are insertable into corresponding first holes defined in the forks. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said second couplings further include one or more support frames having corresponding second holes defined therein for receiving the positioning pins, where the one or more support frames operatively support the major mass portion of the robotic arm mechanism. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein the major mass portion of the robotic arm mechanism is supported on fork receiving pockets and wherein said second couplings include an insertion limiting clamp that limits how far forward the forks can be moved into the fork receiving pockets. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein said second couplings further include an insertion limiting bumper that limits how far forward the forks can be moved into the fork receiving pockets. 22. The method of claim 17 wherein the major mass portion of the robotic arm mechanism is supported on first fork receiving pockets and the first fork receiving pockets are modularly insertable into second fork receiving pockets. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the front-loading refuse collection bin is mounted or mountable on the second fork receiving pockets. 24. The method of claim 17 wherein the major mass portion of the robotic arm mechanism is supported on first fork receiving pockets and the first fork receiving pockets extend back beyond a back of the major mass portion by a sufficient distance so as to thereby assure that the major mass portion is not damaged by collision with said collection vehicle. 25. The method of claim 17 wherein said first couplings include support brackets extending rearward from and beyond a back side of the front-loading refuse collection bin. 26. The method of claim 16 wherein the side-loading robotic arm mechanism is provided with a shape that wraps about at least a back side of the front-loading refuse collection bin and a side side of the front-loading refuse collection bin. 27. The method of claim 16 and further comprising: (c) providing third couplings for conveying operational energy from the collection vehicle to the robotic arm mechanism while the major mass portion of the robotic arm mechanism is situated behind said total refuse containing volume. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the third couplings further convey control signals from the collection vehicle to the robotic arm mechanism for controlling the robotic arm mechanism. 29. The method of claim 27 wherein the third couplings include modular quick disconnect couplers that allow plural units of the robotic arm mechanism to be modularly stacked one after the next. 30. The method of claim 16 and further comprising: (c) providing a protective cage about a rear of the major mass portion of the robotic arm mechanism so as to thereby further protect the major mass portion from collision with said collection vehicle. 