Passive gravity balancing orthosis apparatus for assisting and training patients suffering from muscle weakness by relieving the patients afflicted member of its weight using a plurality of articulated supporting members. Relief is obtained by identifying and fixing the center of mass of the combined articulated equipment members and supported weight of the patient's member in space using a defined parallelogram mechanism and once so identified making the total potential energy for any configuration of the articulated members of the system constant. At least one zero free length spring is used to connect the center of mass to a support outside the articulated members. Additional springs connect the center of mass to the articulated members.
Claims What is claimed: 1. Apparatus for transferring a weight of an articulated system comprising a plurality of pivotally connected members from a first support to which said pivotally connected members are directly attached to a primary support, the apparatus comprising: (1) a parallelogram arm structure connecting a scale length on each of said plurality of pivotally connected members to a combined center of mass of said plurality of pivotally connected members; (2) a first connecting spring connecting said center of mass to said primary support, and (3) a second connecting spring connecting said center of mass to said plurality of pivotally connected members, wherein said first and second springs are selected such that the total potential energy of the articulated system is invariant with member configuration. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said articulated system pivotally connected members are each adapted to attach to and support an external weight and wherein the scaled length of each member is calculated to include the attached weight. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein both the first support and the primary support are located on a harness adapted to be worn by a human and the articulated system forms an exoskeleton adapted for attachment to at least one human limb. 4. The apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the human limb is one of a human leg or a human arm. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the primary support is located on a fixed structure external to the harness. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the fixed structure further includes a treadmill. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the articulated system comprises three degrees of freedom and is adapted for mounting on a person forming an exoskeleton having pivoting members attached to a person's torso, thigh, and calf and wherein said first supporting point is said person's ankle and said primary point is located external to said exoskeleton. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7 further comprising a counterweight attached to said exoskeleton. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said members have a length and said length is adjustable. 10. A method for using the apparatus of claim 1 for transferring the weight of the system comprising the plurality of articulated members from the first support to the primary support, the method comprising: (i) determining the combined center of mass of the plurality of articulated supporting members for any member configuration and any attached weight using auxiliary scaled length parallelograms; and (ii) selecting the springs to connect the combined center of mass to said primary support and to said plurality of articulated members such that the total potential energy of the system is invariant with member configuration. 11. The method according to claim 10 wherein at least one of said springs is a zero free length spring. 12. The method according to claim 10 further comprising attaching said articulated members to a person's body to form a passive exoskeleton supporting at least a part of said person's body. 13. The method according to claim 12 further comprising a harness supporting said exoskeleton on said person's body and wherein the method comprises placing said second support point on a structure external to both said harness and said exoskeleton. 14. A method for using the apparatus of claim 1 for transferring the weight from the first support to the primary support, said weight supported on a pivoting support and comprising weight of at least two interconnected articulated members pivotally attached to said pivoting support, the method comprising: I. identifying a center of mass for each of the articulated members, together with any additional weight supported by such articulated members; II. calculating a scale length for each of the articulated members; III. deriving a parallelogram comprising said scale length and identifying a system center of mass representing the combined center of mass for the articulated members regardless of an articulated members configuration on said parallelogram; IV. connecting said parallelogram to said at least two members; V. selecting springs to connect the combined center of mass to said primary supporting point and to said plurality of articulated members such that the total potential energy of the system is invariant with member configuration; and VI. connecting the system center of mass: (a) to the primary support with at least one of said selected springs; and (b) to the articulated members with at least another of said selected springs. 15. The method according to claim 14 wherein said articulated members support an attached weight and wherein the system center of mass includes the weight supported by each of said members respectively. 16. The method according to claim 15 wherein said selected at least one spring is a zero free length spring. 17. The method according to claim 14 further comprising the step of attaching said articulated members to a person. 18. The method according to claim 17 wherein said articulated members are attached to said person's leg. 