A pipetting apparatus (1) comprises a fluidic space (7), to which a pressure transducer (11) with a pressure sensor (12) is attached with a gas filled space (15). The fluidic space (7) is defined by a pipette tip (2), a first tubing (5) that connects the pipette tip (2) to a pump (4), and an active part (6) of the pump (4). The pipetting apparatus (1) according to the present invention is characterized in that the pipetting apparatus (1) further comprises an impulse generating means (16, 18, 19) that is in operative contact with a column (10) of system liquid (8) inside the fluidic space (7). The impulse generating means (16, 18, 19) is designed to induce a vertical movement in this system liquid column (10), which results in a pressure variation in the gas filled space (15) that is pneumatically connected with the fluidic space (7). This pressure variation--as recorded with the pressure transducer (11) and as processed by a first data processing unit (13) during utilization of this pipetting apparatus--is taken as an indicator for the detection of penetration or of quitting of a surface (17) of a liquid, with an orifice (3) of the pipette tip (2), of which liquid an amount is to be aspirated and dispensed. This pressure variation is also taken as an indicator for the detection of the presence or the absence of gas bubbles in the system liquid (8) contained in the fluidic space (7) of this pipetting apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Liquid level detection method for a pipetting apparatus (1) that comprises a fluidic space (7), to which a pressure transducer (11) is attached with a gas filled space (15); the fluidic space (7) being defined by a pipette tip (2), a first tubing (5) that connects the pipette tip (2) to a pump (4), and an active part (6) of the pump (4); wherein the liquid level detection method comprises the steps of: (a) filling the fluidic space (7) at least partially with a system liquid (8) and forming a substantially continuous system liquid column (10) within the fluidic space (7); (b) inducing a vertical movement in this system liquid column (10) by an impulse generating means (16, 18, 19) that is in operative contact with the system liquid column (10), thereby causing a pressure variation in the gas filled space (15) that is pneumatically connected with the fluidic space (7); (c) recording the pressure variation in the gas filled space (15) with the pressure transducer (11) and processing the recorded data with a first data processing unit (13); and (d) deciding according to the processed data, whether a liquid surface (17) had been penetrated or quitted with an orifice (4) of the pipette tip (2). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the pressure variation--as recorded with the pressure transducer (11) and as processed by a first data processing unit (13) according to step (c)--is indicative for the presence or absence of a filter in the pipette tip (2). 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the decision according to step (d) is carried out on the base of a pressure oscillation frequency recorded by the pressure transducer (11) during an initial or final part of an aspiration process. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein vertically moving this system liquid column (10) in step (b) is a discontinuous or continuous bidirectional oscillation movement, caused by oscillation of a piston (18) or of bellows of the pump (4), or caused by oscillation of a membrane (20,42) that is part of the pump (4) or of a constriction element (19). 5. The method of claim 4, wherein discontinuous oscillating, single pulsing, or single stepping this system liquid column (10) according to step (b) is carried out in between of two steps of moving the pipette tip orifice (4) towards the liquid surface (17). 6. The method of claim 4, wherein continuous oscillating, repeated pulsing, or repeated stepping this system liquid column (10) of step (b) is carried out during movement of the pipette tip orifice (4) towards the liquid surface (17). 7. The method of claim 1, wherein vertically moving this system liquid column (10) in step (b) is a single or repeated bidirectional pulse movement caused by impulses carried out with a piston (18) or with bellows of the pump (4), or caused by impulses carried out with a membrane (20, 42) that is part of the piston (18) or of a constriction element (19). 8. The method of claim 1, wherein vertically moving this system liquid column (10) in step (b) is a single or repeated unidirectional downward or upward step movement caused by a single or repeated forward or backward movement of a piston (18) or of bellows of the pump (4). 9. The method according to claim 1 for the aspiration and dispensation of volumes of liquids. 10. Bubble detection method for a pipetting apparatus (1) that comprises a fluidic space (7) to which a pressure transducer (11) is attached with a gas filled space (15); the fluidic space (7) being defined by a pipette tip (2), a first tubing (5) that connects the pipette tip (2) to a pump (4), and an active part (6) of the pump (4); wherein the bubble detection method comprises the steps of: (a) filling the fluidic space (7) at least partially with a system liquid (8) and forming a substantially continuous system liquid column (10) within the fluidic space (7); (b) inducing a vertical movement in this system liquid column (10) by an impulse generating means (16, 18, 19) that is in operative contact with the system liquid column (10), thereby causing a pressure variation in the gas filled space (15) that is pneumatically connected with the fluidic space (7); (c) recording the pressure variation in the gas filled space (15) with the pressure transducer (11) and processing the recorded data with a first data processing unit (13); and (d) deciding according to the processed data, whether gas bubbles are present in the system liquid (8) that is within the fluidic space (7). 11. The method according to claim 10 for the aspiration and dispensation of volumes of liquids. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the decision according to step (d) is carried out on the base of a pressure oscillation frequency recorded by the pressure transducer (11) during an initial or final part of an aspiration process. 