A virtual wheel provides a leg pair as a conveyance mechanism for a land vehicle. The virtual wheel propels the vehicle across a surface using a repetitive motion of the legs that contact the ground as would a wheel, due to their geometry. Vehicle embodiments include at least two-, three-, four- and six-wheeled vehicles, both transverse and in-line. Additionally, the invention provides a bipedal walking robot. One embodiment provides a robotic mule--a payload-carrying vehicle. The invention combines the flexible mobility of bipedal vehicles with the stability and functionality of very large-wheeled vehicles. Additionally, a bimodal conveyance mechanism readily converts between walking and rolling modes
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A conveyance mechanism comprising: a pair of radial members, each member having a curved foot attached to a distal end, wherein said curved foot subtends an arc of approximately 180.degree., the radius of said arc approximating the length of said members, each member attached to a common axle at a proximal end; wherein said members pivot freely about said axle so that said feet rotate in parallel planes to each other in a walking mode; and wherein said feet are configured to attach to each other in a common plane to form a circle in a rolling mode. 2. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein any of said members and said feet are jointed so that said circle is collapsible to a stowing mode. 3. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein maintaining an offset between said feet enables them to rotate in parallel planes, and wherein eliminating said offset allows them to be attached in a common plane. 4. The mechanism of claim 3,said members are offset from each other along said axle when said feet are offset from each other. 5. The mechanism of claim 3, wherein each proximal end includes a hub. includes a hub. 6. The mechanism of claim 5, wherein said hubs are shaped to engage each other as the feet are moved into a coplanar configuration. 7. The mechanism of claim 6, wherein the hubs are shaped to lock to one another rigidly so that said members form at least one rigid diametric spoke. 8. The mechanism of claim 5, wherein a radial portion of each member is shaped to offset the foot relative to the hub. 9. The mechanism of claim 5, wherein said member is connected to said hub by a hinged yoke. 10. The mechanism of claim 9, wherein a radial portion of each member is oriented so that the offset positions the feet in different planes, allowing for a walking motion. 11. The mechanism of claim 9, wherein said members are flipped about the axle using the hinged yoke so that direction of said offset is reversed, and wherein said feet are positioned in a common plane, allowing for a rolling motion. 12. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein said foot includes at least one hinge. 13. The mechanism of claim 12, further comprising a hinge along the arc of at least one foot, wherein said hinge allows said foot to fold into an arc subscribing less than 180.degree.. 14. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein a connection between a member and a foot is hinged, allowing said foot to pivot relative to said member. 15. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein said feet have attachment elements at their leading and trailing edges for , attaching a trailing edge of a first foot of asequenee said pair of feet to the leading edge of a next foot of said pair a sequence of feet; and attaching the leading edge of said first foot to the trailing edge of the last foot; wherein a rigid coplanar circle is formed. 