A handling robot system, including a table having a placement surface for placing articles; an article dispersing mechanism for dispersing the articles placed on the placement surface of the table across the placement surface; a vision sensor for detecting each of the articles dispersed on the placement surface of the table; and a robot operating, based on article detection data from the vision sensor, to hold the articles one by one. The article dispersing mechanism includes a partition member for producing a relative motion in relation to the table, the partition member being disposed in proximity to the placement surface with a gap defined therebetween, to divide a space adjoining the placement surface into a first region to which the articles are brought and a second region at which the robot operates to hold the articles transferred from the first region; and a drive control section for causing the relative motion between the table and the partition member in accordance with a program describing a mode of the relative motion. A certain number of articles are dispersed, as a result of the relative motion produced under the control of the drive control section, to permit the articles to pass through the gap on the placement surface, and are transferred from the first region to the second region.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A handling robot system, comprising: a table having a placement surface for placing a plurality of articles; an article dispersing mechanism for dispersing the articles placed on said placement surface of said table across said placement surface; a vision sensor for detecting each of the articles dispersed on said placement surface of said table; and a robot operating, based on article detection data from said vision sensor, to hold the articles one by one; said article dispersing mechanism comprising: a partition member capable of producing a relative motion in relation to said table, said partition member being disposed in proximity to said placement surface with a gap defined therebetween, to divide a space adjoining said placement surface into a first region to which the articles are brought and a second region at which said robot operates to hold the articles transferred from said first region; and a drive control section for causing said relative motion between said table and said partition member in accordance with a program describing a mode of said relative motion; wherein said drive control section causes, in accordance with said program, said relative motion in a first direction and said relative motion in a second direction opposite to said first direction, and wherein a certain number of articles are dispersed, as a result of said relative motion in said first direction and said relative motion in said second direction produced under a control of said drive control section, to permit the articles to pass through said gap on said placement surface, and are transferred from said first region to said second region. 2. A handling robot system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said article dispersing mechanism further comprises a driving section for producing said relative motion in said first direction and said relative motion in said second direction between said table and said partition member under the control of said drive control section. 3. A handling robot system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said drive control section is incorporated into a robot controller for controlling an operation of said robot. 4. A handling robot system as set forth in claim 3, wherein said robot operates under the control of said drive control section, to produce said relative motion in said first direction and said relative motion in said second direction between said table and said partition member. 5. A handling robot system as set forth in claim 1, wherein, when several types of articles are simultaneously brought into said first region, said vision sensor is configured to distinguish a type of each of said articles and said robot is configured to handle each article in accordance with the type as distinguished. 6. A handling robot system as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a storage section for storing a plurality of programs respectively describing several modes of said relative motion; wherein said drive control section selects, from among the plurality of programs stored in said storage section, a program describing a mode of relative motion producing an optimum article dispersing function, based on said article detection data obtained by said vision sensor, and executes said program as selected. 7. A handling robot system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said article dispersing mechanism further comprises an enclosing member disposed fixedly relative to said partition member, said partition member cooperating with said enclosing member to define said first region having an opening above said placement surface. 8. A handling robot system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said relative motion comprises a rotation about an axis generally perpendicular to said placement surface. 9. A handling robot system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said relative motion comprises a linear motion in a direction generally parallel to said placement surface. 10. A handling robot system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said drive control section alternately and repeatedly causes said relative motion in said first direction and said relative motion in said second direction. 11. A handling robot system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said vision sensor comprises one of a two-dimensional vision sensor and a three-dimensional vision sensor. 