A system is provided for palletizing articles including a stacking area for stacking palletized article layers. Each palletized article layer is constructed from a plurality of arranged articles. The stacking area includes a structural member for structurally carrying a stabilizer over the stacking area. The stabilizer provides substantially continuous lateral support along the periphery of arranged articles of the article layer being constructed to substantially prevent tipping of the plurality of arranged articles.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for palletizing articles, the steps comprising: arranging a plurality of articles within a first collection area; transporting the plurality of articles from the first collection area to a stacking area for constructing a palletized article layer; continuously laterally supporting the periphery of the plurality of articles arranged within the stacking area to substantially prevent tipping of the plurality of articles; arranging a subsequent plurality of articles within the first collection area; transporting the subsequent plurality of articles from the first collection area to the stacking area adjacent the plurality of arranged articles, the periphery of the plurality of arranged articles being continuously laterally supported while the subsequent plurality of articles is being arranged, and upon the arrangement of the subsequent plurality of articles, the periphery of the plurality of arranged and subsequently arranged articles being laterally supported; and repeating the arrangement and transporting of subsequent plurality of articles until the article layer is constructed. 2. The method of claim 1 including the steps of constructing subsequent article layers vertically stacked on top of each other until a full pallet of article layers is constructed. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of laterally supporting the periphery of the plurality of articles is achieved by a stabilizer. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the stabilizer is used in the step of constructing subsequent article layers to laterally support the periphery of the plurality of articles of an article layer being constructed and laterally support the periphery of the plurality of articles of an adjacent layer of articles. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein in the step of transporting the subsequent plurality of articles, a portion of the periphery of the plurality of arranged articles is laterally supported by the subsequent plurality of articles while the subsequent plurality of articles is being arranged. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein in the step of transporting the subsequent plurality of articles, the periphery of the plurality of arranged and subsequently arranged articles is laterally supported by a stabilizer. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of transporting the plurality of articles includes arranging the plurality of articles in a row. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of transporting the subsequent plurality of articles includes arranging the subsequent plurality of articles in a row that is substantially parallel to the row formed by the plurality of arranged articles. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of transporting the subsequent plurality of articles includes arranging the subsequent plurality of articles in a row that is substantially aligned with the row formed by the plurality of arranged articles. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of transporting the subsequent plurality of articles includes arranging the subsequent plurality of articles in at least two portions of a row, including a first row portion that is substantially aligned with the row formed by the plurality of arranged articles and a second row portion that is substantially parallel to the row formed by the plurality of arranged articles. 11. The method of claim 1 further including the step of placing a slip sheet between article layers. 12. The method of claim 11 further including the step of placing a top sheet or a tray over the top article layer. 13. A method for palletizing articles, the steps comprising: arranging a plurality of articles within a first collection area; transporting the plurality of articles from the first collection area to a stacking area for constructing a palletized article layer; continuously laterally supporting the periphery of the plurality of articles arranged within the stacking area to substantially prevent tipping of the plurality of articles while the plurality of articles are arranged; arranging a subsequent plurality of articles within the first collection area; transporting the subsequent plurality of articles from the first collection area to the stacking area adjacent the plurality of arranged articles, the periphery of the plurality of arranged articles being continuously laterally supported while the subsequent plurality of articles is being arranged, and upon the arrangement of the subsequent plurality of articles, the periphery of the plurality of arranged and subsequently arranged articles being laterally supported; repeating the steps of arranging and transporting of subsequent plurality of articles until the article layer is constructed; placing a covering over the constructed article layer; repeating the steps of arranging, transporting and laterally supporting plurality of articles, arranging, transporting and repeating the steps of arranging and transporting of subsequent plurality of articles to construct article layers vertically stacked on top of each other until a full pallet of article layers is constructed. 