An improved tidal and river energy converter having a semi-submerged device designed to harvest energy from the tidal and river sites. Each device is connected to other like devices to form an interconnected array of tidal and river energy devices that are anchored to the shore at right angles to the prevailing tidal and river current. Each device is composed of a supporting floatation hull attached to a submerged strut supporting an air compressor driven by a slow rotating propeller. The air compressor is connected through a streamlined mooring system to the other air compressors in the array and those in turn are connected to a high pressure line leading underwater to an onshore air turbine electric generator connected to the local power grid.
Claims I claim: 1. An energy module comprising: a. an energy absorber comprising: i. a nacelle; ii. a propeller comprising a plurality of blades attached to the nacelle at a hub to drive an air compressor to compress air; and b. a mooring system comprising: i. a negative-lift wing-shaped polymer shell attached to the nacelle, the negative-lift wing-shaped polymer shell designed to utilize the force of a passing current to create a downward force and thereby reduce any upward motion in the energy module, ii. a mooring cable housed inside the negative-lift wing-shaped polymer shell and anchored onshore to maintain the energy module in a fore and aft and a side-to-side position to provide stability, and to negate a rotational force on the energy module, and iii. a high pressure hose housed inside the wing-shaped polymer shell to transfer the compressed air to an air turbine generator for conversion into electricity. 2. The energy module of claim 1 further comprising a. a strut attached to the nacelle; and b. a stabilizer tube attached to the strut to provide support for the energy absorber, the stabilizer tube comprising a bow end and a stern end opposite the bow end. 3. The energy module of claim 2, wherein the bow end is configured with a negative lift shape and the stern end is configured with a negative lift shape. 4. The energy module of claim 2 further comprising a communications cable housed in the wing-shaped polymer shell for communicating signals to or from the energy module. 5. The energy module of claim 2 further comprising an anti-cavitation plate attached to the strut to reduce air intrusion to the propeller. 6. The energy module of claim 2 further comprising a wiring harness applied to a surface of the stabilizer tube for transmitting signals to or from the energy module. 7. The energy module of claim 2 further comprising a forward buoyancy tank and an aft buoyancy tank inside the stabilizer tube that can be ballasted with water to alter an angle of the propeller relative to an oncoming current. 8. The energy module of claim 2, wherein the strut is attached to the bow end of the stabilizer tube and tilted approximately 45 degrees towards the stern end. 9. The energy module of claim 2, wherein the strut slides up and down through the stabilizer tube controlled by a hydraulic pressure. 10. The energy module of claim 2 further comprising a second propeller attached to the nacelle opposite the first propeller, such that the second propeller rotates in the opposite direction relative to the first propeller. 11. The energy module of claim 1, wherein the plurality of blades are curved to shed debris. 12. An array of energy modules comprising a plurality of energy modules, each comprising: a. an energy absorber comprising a propeller attached to a nacelle, the nacelle comprising an air compressor to compress air; b. a negative-lift wing-shaped polymer shell attached to the nacelle; c. a mooring cable housed inside the negative-lift wing-shaped polymer shell connecting the plurality of energy absorbers to each other and connecting the plurality of energy absorbers to a riverbank to maintain the array of energy modules in a fore and aft and a side-to-side position to provide stability, and to negate a rotational force on the array of energy modules; and d. a high pressure hose housed inside the negative-lift wing-shaped polymer shell to transfer compressed air from each energy absorber to an air turbine generator for conversion into electricity. 13. The array of energy modules of claim 12 further comprising: a. a strut attached to the nacelle; and b. a stabilizer tube attached to the strut to support the energy absorber. 14. The array of energy modules of claim 12, wherein the propeller of a first energy module spins in an opposite direction relative to the propeller of a second energy module adjacent to the first energy module, to counteract a rotational force placed on the array of energy modules. 15. The array of energy modules of claim 12 further comprising a communications cable housed inside the wing-shaped polymer shell for communicating signals to or from the array of energy modules. 16. The array of energy modules of claim 12, wherein each energy module further comprises a wiring harness applied to a surface of the stabilizer tube for transmitting signals to or from the energy module. 17. The array of energy modules of claim 12, wherein each energy module comprises a forward buoyancy tank and an aft buoyancy tank inside the stabilizer tube that can be ballasted with water to alter an angle and depth of the propeller relative to an oncoming current. 18. A method of harnessing energy from a river comprising: a. providing a plurality of energy modules comprising a negative-lift wing-shaped polymer shell; b. interconnecting each energy module at the negative-lift wing-shaped polymer shell with a mooring cable and a high pressure hose housed inside the negative-lift wing-shaped polymer shell to maintain the plurality of energy modules in a fore and aft and a side-to-side position to provide stability, and to negate a rotational force on the plurality of energy modules; c. converting a mechanical energy created by a river flow into compressed air by the plurality of energy modules; and d. transferring the compressed air from the plurality of energy modules to an air turbine electric generator through the high pressure hose to convert the compressed air into electricity, thereby harnessing energy from the river. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising adjusting a depth level of the energy absorber for the purpose of maximizing the power converted or operating in conditions that does not allow for the power conversion at a particular depth. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the depth level is adjusted by filling or emptying a buoyancy tank to lower or raise, respectively, the depth level of the energy absorber as needed. 21. The method of claim 18 further comprising adjusting an angle of the energy absorber to compensate for changing river current conditions, thereby maximizing energy conversion. 