An automated process for detecting the presence of a target nucleic acid in a sample. The process includes separating the target nucleic acid from other material present in the sample at a first station, transferring the separated target nucleic acid from the first station to a second station using a rotatable transport mechanism, combining the transferred target nucleic acid and reagents for performing an amplification reaction at the second station, and performing an amplification reaction. A product of the amplification reaction is detected as an indication of the presence of the target nucleic acid in the sample.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for detecting the presence of a target nucleic acid in a sample containing the target nucleic acid, the process comprising the automated steps of: a) at a first station, immobilizing the target nucleic acid on a magnetically responsive particle; b) subjecting the magnetically responsive particle to a magnetic field and aspirating non-immobilized components of the sample; c) transferring the target nucleic acid immobilized in step a) from the first station to a second station using a rotatable transport mechanism; d) at the second station, combining the transferred target nucleic acid of step c) and reagents for performing an amplification reaction; e) performing an amplification reaction which produces an amplification product indicative of the presence of the target nucleic acid in the sample; and f) detecting the amplification product of step e) as an indication of the presence of the target nucleic acid in the sample. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein the non-immobilized components of the sample include non-target nucleic acid. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein the target nucleic acid is hybridized to a capture probe prior to immobilizing the target nucleic acid on the magnetically responsive particle. 4. The process of claim 1, wherein the target nucleic acid remains immobilized on the magnetically responsive particle during step c). 5. The process of claim 1 further comprising the step of forming a complex comprising the amplification product and a probe, wherein the amplification product is detected in step f) by detecting the formation of the complex. 6. The process of claim 5, wherein the probe includes a detectable label. 7. The process of claim 5, wherein the amplification product is a nucleic acid sequence that is the same as or complementary to a sequence of the target nucleic acid. 8. The process of claim 1, wherein steps a)-f) are performed with a stand-alone unit. 9. The process of claim 8, wherein the first and second stations and the transport mechanism are contained within a housing of the stand-alone unit. 10. The process of claim 9, wherein the first and second stations and the transport mechanism are located on a processing deck. 11. The process of claim 9, wherein the stand-alone unit is movable. 12. The process of claim 1, wherein the amplification reaction is selected from the group consisting of a polymerase chain reaction, a strand displacement amplification, and a transcription-associated amplification. 13. A process for detecting the presence of a target nucleic acid in a sample containing the target nucleic acid, the process comprising the automated steps of: a) at a first station, immobilizing the target nucleic acid on a magnetically responsive particle; subjecting the magnetically responsive particle to a magnetic field and aspirating non-immobilized components of the sample; and washing the magnetically responsive particle one or more times with a wash solution; b) transferring the target nucleic acid immobilized in step a) from the first station to a second station using a rotatable transport mechanism; c) at the second station, combining the transferred target nucleic acid of step b) and reagents for performing an amplification reaction; d) performing an amplification reaction which produces an amplification product indicative of the presence of the target nucleic acid in the sample; and e) detecting the amplification product of step d) as an indication of the presence of the target nucleic acid in the sample. 14. The process of claim 13, wherein the target nucleic acid remains immobilized on the magnetically responsive particle during step b). 15. The process of claim 13 further comprising the step of forming a complex comprising the amplification product and a probe, wherein the amplification product is detected in step e) by detecting the formation of the complex. 16. The process of claim 15, wherein the probe includes a detectable label. 17. The process of claim 13, wherein steps a)-e) are performed with a stand-alone unit. 18. The process of claim 17, wherein the first and second stations and the transport mechanism are contained within a housing of the stand-alone unit. 19. The process of claim 18, wherein the first and second stations and the transport mechanism are located on a processing deck. 20. The process of claim 18, wherein the stand-alone unit is movable. 21. The process of claim 13, wherein the amplification reaction is selected from the group consisting of a polymerase chain reaction, a strand displacement amplification, and a transcription-associated amplification. 22. The process of claim 15, wherein the amplification product is a nucleic acid sequence that is the same as or complementary to a sequence of the target nucleic acid. 