Disclosed is a method, system, and program for using storage slots efficiently. A storage element count is assigned to each one of multiple logical libraries, and the sum of the storage element count for each one of the multiple logical libraries exceeds the total number of storage slots in the library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for using storage slots, comprising: partitioning a physical library into multiple logical libraries; and assigning a storage element count to each one of the multiple logical libraries, wherein a sum of the storage element count assigned to each one of the multiple logical libraries exceeds a total number of storage slots in the physical library. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the storage element count for one or more of the multiple logical libraries is equal to a total number of storage slots in the physical library. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: allowing one or more of the multiple logical libraries to be associated with any storage slot in the physical library. 4. A method for assigning storage slots, comprising: partitioning a physical library into one or more logical libraries; assigning a storage slot count greater than a total number of storage slots in the physical library to the one or more logical libraries; adding new storage slots to the physical library; and allowing one or more of the logical libraries to be associated with the newly added storage slots without reconfiguration of the physical library. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the storage slot count equals a maximum number of storage slots that may subsequently be in the physical library. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: adding a new frame to the physical library that includes the new storage slots. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the new storage slots comprise storage slots whose status is changed from a status of not being eligible to be associated with one or more of the logical libraries to being eligible to be associated with one or more of the logical libraries. 