An apparatus 1 for controlling a movable robot recognizes the person to be followed up from an image taken by a camera C by an image processing portion 20, controls leg portions R1 of a movable robot A so as to keep a prescribed interval between the movable robot A and the person by a portion 50 for detecting an action, and notify the degree of the distance between the movable robot A and the person to the person by a voice from a voice outputting portion 62.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for controlling a movable robot comprising a camera, moving means, and a device for outputting a sound, which comprises: means for recognizing a subject to be followed up, which recognizes the subject on the basis of an image taken by the camera; means for recognizing a distance to from the subject having been recognized by the means for recognizing a subject to be followed up; means for controlling movement, which controls said moving means so as to keep the distance from said movable robot to the subject, having been recognized by said means for recognizing a distance to the subject to be followed up at a predetermined distance; and means for controlling the outputting of a sound, which outputs a sound or a voice related to the distance to the subject, wherein the sound or the voice from the means for controlling the outputting of a sound informs the subject about a situation regarding the distance to the subject, so as to notify the subject to keep the distance from said movable robot to the subject at the predetermined distance, and said notifying operation comprises informing the subject whether it needs to stop moving and wait based on an increase in the actual distance, determined based on the predetermined distance, between the movable robot and the subject. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said moving means of the movable robot moves by two legs' walking. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, which further comprises means for holding map information, which holds map information of an area within which said movable robot moves, and wherein said means for controlling movement determines the actuation of said moving means based on the map information held in said means for holding map information. 4. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein a restricted area which prohibits approach is set in said map information held in said means for holding map information. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the subject to be followed up is a person, and which further comprises means for judging instruction from a person. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said means for judging instruction from a person judges whether or not the robot follows up the person based on the results of recognition in which the person is recognized from the face image. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said means for judging instruction from a person judges the instruction from the person based on at least one of posture, and gesture of said person. 8. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said means for judging instruction from a person judges the instruction from the person based on a voice vocalized from said person. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for controlling the outputting of a sound changes a volume of voice outputted to said device for outputting a sound, based on a circumferential noise level. 10. A process for controlling a movable robot comprising a camera, moving means, and a device for outputting a sound, which comprises: a step for recognizing a subject to be followed up, which recognizes the subject on the basis of an image taken by the camera; a step for recognizing a distance to the subject having been recognized by the step for recognizing a subject to be followed up; a step for controlling movement, which controls said moving means so as to keep the distance to the subject having been recognized by said step for recognizing a distance to the subject to be followed up at a predetermined distance; and a step for controlling the outputting of a sound, which outputs a sound or a voice related to the distance to the subject, wherein the sound or the voice from the step for controlling the outputting of a sound informs the subject about a situation regarding the distance to the subject, so as to notify the subject to keep the distance from said movable robot to the subject at the predetermined distance, and said notifying operation comprises informing the subject whether it needs to stop moving and wait based on an increase in the actual distance, determined based on the predetermined distance, between the movable robot and the subject. 11. A computer-readable medium encoded with a program for controlling a movable robot comprising a camera, moving means, and a device for outputting a sound: which comprises having a computer to serves as means for recognizing a subject to be followed up, which recognizes the subject on the basis of an image taken by the camera; means for recognizing a distance to the subject having been recognized by the means for recognizing a subject to be followed up; means for controlling movement, which controls said moving means so as to keep the distance to the subject having been recognized by said means for recognizing a distance to the subject to be followed up at a predetermined distance; and means for controlling the outputting of a sound, which outputs a sound or a voice related to the distance to the subject, wherein the sound or the voice from the means for controlling the outputting of a sound informs the subject about a situation regarding the distance to the subject, so as to notify the subject to keep the distance from said movable robot to the subject at the predetermined distance, and said notifying operation comprises informing the subject whether it needs to stop moving and wait based on an increase in the actual distance, determined based on the predetermined distance, between the movable robot and the subject. 