Automated transaction machines dispense currency notes and enable the conduct of transactions. In some cases a user is enabled to dispense merchandise from a self-service dispensing machine and is also enabled to selectively receive cash value by charging the amount of such value to a source of monetary source associated with data read from a machine readable article such as a card (80, 82). A user may receive cash value by presenting a printed voucher or other item to a service provider located at a facility (14) at which the service provider exchanges the voucher or other item for cash. Alternatively, cash may be dispensed to the user directly from the self-service dispensing machine. Alternatively the user may pick up merchandise ordered through the machine at a delivery station disposed from the machine.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus comprising: an automated transaction machine including: a housing; at least one output device in operatively supported connection with the housing, wherein the at least one output device includes a display; at least one first input device in operatively supported connection with the housing, wherein the at least one first input device is operative to read card data presented by a user of the machine, and wherein the at least one first input device is operative to receive at least one first input which identifies a source of monetary value usable in payment by the machine user; at least one second input device in operatively supported connection with the housing, wherein the at least one second input device is operative to receive: at least one second input corresponding to at least one food item selected for purchase by the machine user, wherein the at least one food item has an associated cost, and at least one third input corresponding to an amount of cash requested by the machine user in a cash withdrawal transaction; a cash dispenser in supporting connection with the housing; at least one computer in operative connection with the at least one output device, the at least one first input device, the at least one second input device, and the cash dispenser, wherein the at least one computer is operative responsive to communication with at least one remote computer to: cause the cash dispenser during the cash withdrawal transaction to dispense the amount of cash requested by the machine user to the machine user, cause a charge corresponding to both the cost associated with the at least one food item selected and the amount of cash requested in the cash withdrawal transaction to be assessed against the identified source of monetary value, and provide at least one output through the at least one output device informing the machine user to pick up the at least one food item selected at a food pick up station disposed from the machine. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one second input device comprises an audio input device, and wherein the at least one computer includes speech recognition software operating therein, and wherein the at least one second input comprises a verbal input. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the at least one output device comprises an audio output device, and wherein the at least one computer includes simulated speech generation software, wherein the at least one output device is operative to provide at least one simulated speech output. 4. Apparatus comprising: an automated transaction machine including: a housing, at least one output device in operatively supported connection with the housing, wherein the at least one output device includes a display wherein the at least one output device comprises at least one audio output device at least one input device in operatively supported connection with the housing, wherein the at least one input device is operative to read card data presented by a machine user, wherein the at least one input device is operative to receive at least one first input which identifies a source of monetary value associated with the machine user, wherein the at least one input device is operative to receive at least one second input corresponding to at least one merchandise item selected for purchase by the machine user, wherein the at least one merchandise item has an associated cost, and wherein the at least one input device is operative to receive at least one third input corresponding to an amount of cash requested by the machine user, a cash dispenser in supporting connection with the housing, at least one computer in operative connection with the at least one output device, the at least one input device, and the cash dispenser, wherein the at least one computer includes software operative to cause images of a simulated person to be output through the display, wherein the at least one computer is operative to cause the images of the simulated person to appear to speak through the at least one audio output device, wherein the at least one computer is operative to cause the cash dispenser to dispense the amount of cash to the user, to cause a charge corresponding to the cost and the amount to be assessed against the source of monetary value, and to provide at least one output through the at least one output device indicating that the machine user may receive the at least one merchandise item at a delivery station disposed from the machine. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 and further comprising: a note acceptor in operatively supported connection with the housing, wherein the note acceptor accepts valid notes into the machine, and wherein the valid notes have an associated cash value, wherein the cash acceptor is in operative connection with the at least one computer, and wherein the at least one computer is operative to cause the cost of merchandise to be assessed against the cash value. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the at least one computer is operative to determine a difference between the cash value and the cost, and is operative to cause the cash dispenser to operate to dispense at least a portion of the difference to the user. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6 and further comprising: a note recycler in operatively supported connection with the housing, wherein the at least one computer is operative to cause notes accepted by the note acceptor to be stored through operation of the recycler, and wherein the recycler includes the cash dispenser. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7 and further comprising: at least one biometric input device in operatively supported connection with the housing, wherein the at least one computer is in operative connection with the at least one biometric input device. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the at least one biometric input device includes a camera, and wherein the camera is in operative connection with the at least one computer, and wherein the at least one computer includes face recognition software operating therein. 10. The apparatus according to claim 9 wherein the at least one merchandise item comprises at least one food item. 11. Apparatus comprising: an automated transaction machine including: a housing; at least one output device, wherein the at least one output device includes a display and an audio output device; at least one input device in operatively supported connection with the housing, wherein the at least one input device includes a card reader and at least one audio input device; at least one computer in operative connection with the at least one output device and the at least one input device, wherein the at least one computer includes speech recognition software, speech generation software and software operative to cause an image of a simulated person to be output through the display, wherein the at least one computer is operative to receive an order for merchandise including at least one food item having an associated cost, through verbal inputs received from a machine user through the audio input device, wherein the verbal inputs are received responsive to simulated speech outputs caused to be output through the audio output device responsive to operation of the at least one computer, wherein the simulated speech outputs appear to the machine user to come from the simulated person, a visual image of which simulated person is output through the display, and wherein the at least one computer is further operative to cause the cost to be assessed to a source of monetary value associated with a card read through operation of the card reader. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11 and further comprising a cash dispenser, wherein the cash dispenser is in operative connection with the at least one computer, and wherein responsive to at least one input to the at least one input device, the at least one computer is operative to cause the cash dispenser to dispense an amount of cash and to cause the amount to be assessed against the source of monetary value. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12 and further comprising: a cash acceptor in operatively supported connection with the housing, wherein the cash acceptor is operative to evaluate notes and accept valid notes in the machine; a cash recycler in operatively supported connection with the housing and in operative connection with the cash acceptor; wherein the cash acceptor and the cash recycler are in operative connection with the at least one computer, wherein the cash recycler includes the cash dispenser, and wherein the at least one computer is operative to cause the cost of merchandise to be assessed against a value associated with valid notes received through the cash acceptor. 14. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the at least one computer is operative to calculate a difference between the value associated with valid notes received through the cash acceptor and the cost associated with the merchandise, and wherein the at least one computer is operative to cause the cash recycler to dispense from the machine at least a portion of the difference. 15. The apparatus according to claim 14 and further comprising at least one camera, wherein the at least one camera is in operative connection with the at least one computer, and wherein the at least one computer includes face recognition software operating therein. 16. A method comprising: (a) operating an automated transaction machine to receive: an order for at least one food item, a request for cash, at least one input corresponding to a source of monetary value, wherein the machine receives at least one input by reading data from a user card, and verbal responses from a user of the machine to simulated speech outputs from the machine; (b) responsive to (a), dispensing the cash to the user at a location disposed from the machine through operation of a cash dispenser, whereby during at least a portion of the dispensing another person may operate the machine; (c) responsive to (a), providing the at least one food item to the user at a delivery station remote from the machine; (d) providing output images of a simulated person through a display of the machine, wherein the simulated speech outputs appear to the user to come from the simulated person speaking; and (e) operating at least one computer to cause the source of monetary value to be assessed a cost associated with the at least one food item and an amount associated with the dispensed cash. 17. The method according to claim 16 and further comprising: receiving a note into the machine, through operation of a note accepting device of the machine. 