A method and apparatus is provided for illuminating a wafer during wafer alignment using machine vision. An illumination device is fabricated using electroluminescent material, that provides diffuse illumination uniformly over the surface of the lamp to provide backlighting of the wafer. Contrast between the image of the wafer and the diffuse illumination produce edge features in the image that can be analyzed to determine the position and orientation of the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for backlighting a wafer during alignment comprising: a wafer alignment stage; a camera coupled to a machine vision system, the camera positioned to acquire an image of a wafer placed on the wafer alignment stage; and an electroluminescent lamp projecting illumination toward the camera, the wafer alignment stage disposed between the camera and the electroluminescent lamp. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the electroluminescent lamp further comprises: a rigid substrate; a sheet of electroluminescent material adhesively attached to the substrate; and a power supply electrically coupled to the electroluminescent material. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the electroluminescent lamp has a circular annular shape. 4. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the rigid substrate is an epoxy-glass composite. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the electroluminescent lamp emits illumination in a particular color, and the camera further comprises a band-pass filter tuned to the particular color of the electroluminescent lamp. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the camera coupled to the machine vision system is an integrated sensor. 7. An apparatus for backlighting a wafer during alignment comprising: a robot end effector; a camera coupled to a machine vision system, the camera positioned to acquire an image of a wafer placed on the robot end effector; and an electroluminescent lamp projecting illumination toward the camera, the wafer disposed between the camera and the electroluminescent lamp. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the electroluminescent lamp further comprises: a rigid substrate; a sheet of electroluminescent material adhesively attached to the substrate; and a power supply electrically coupled to the electroluminescent material. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the electroluminescent lamp has a circular annular shape. 10. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the rigid substrate is an epoxy-glass composite. 11. The apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the electroluminescent lamp emits illumination in a particular color, and the camera further comprises a band-pass filter tuned to the particular color of the electroluminescent lamp. 12. The apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the camera coupled to the machine vision system is an integrated sensor. 13. A method for backlighting a wafer during alignment comprising: positioning a wafer in a field of view of a camera, the wafer having a first side facing the camera and a second side facing away from the camera, the camera cooperatively coupled to a machine vision system; illuminating the second side of the wafer using an electroluminescent lamp and a portion of the field of view; and determining the position and orientation of the wafer using the acquired image and the machine vision system. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein the step of positioning the wafer comprises placing the wafer on a stage. 15. The method according to claim 13 wherein the step of positioning the wafer comprises moving the wafer through the field of view using a robotic end effector. 16. The method according to claim 15 wherein the step of illuminating the second side of the wafer comprises strobing the electroluminescent lamp. 