The present invention relates to an article fabrication system having a plurality of material deposition tools containing one or more materials useful in fabricating the article, and a material deposition device having a tool interface for receiving one of the material deposition tools. A system controller is operably connected to the material deposition device to control operation of the material deposition device. Also disclosed is a method of fabricating an article using the system of the invention and a method of fabricating a living three-dimensional structure.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An article fabrication system comprising: a plurality of material deposition tools containing one or more materials useful in fabricating the article; a material deposition device having a tool interface for receiving said material deposition tools, the tool interface of said material deposition device being movable in various paths, including curvilinear and/or non-planar paths, relative to a substrate to dispense material from the material deposition tools to the substrate, wherein all of the plurality of material deposition tools have an orifice through which material is deposited where the orifice is of a size less than the substrate's width; a system controller operably connected to said material deposition device to control operation of said material deposition device; and a tool rack comprising tool mounts, wherein the tool rack is suitable for holding the plurality of material deposition tools or components thereof on said tool mounts. 2. The fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein said material deposition device comprises a machine-operated positioning system for moving the tool interface relative to the substrate. 3. The fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein the material deposition device comprises a Cartesian coordinate gantry. 4. The fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein the substrate is mounted on a moveable support. 5. The fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein said material deposition tools are selected from the group consisting of fusible-material extrusion tools, ink jet tools, spray tools, and cartridge holding tools capable of receiving modular material cartridges. 6. The fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of said material deposition tools is a cartridge holding tool capable of receiving modular material cartridges, the cartridge holding tool comprising a volumetrically or force controlled dispensing system. 7. The fabrication system according to claim 6, wherein the modular material cartridges comprise: sensors for monitoring thermo/physical conditions of the material, wherein the sensors are operably connected to said system controller and/or actuators for maintaining or altering thermo/physical conditions of the material, wherein the actuators are operably connected to said system controller. 8. The fabrication system according to claim 6, wherein the cartridge is a syringe cartridge. 9. The fabrication system according to claim 8, wherein said material deposition tool comprises a linear actuator connected to the syringe cartridge. 10. The fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein the system controller is operably connected to one or more of said material deposition tools. 11. The fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein said material deposition tool further comprises sensors for detecting structures on the substrate, said sensors being operably connected to said system controller. 12. The fabrication system according to claim 11, wherein said material deposition tool further comprises: an actuator capable of maintaining or altering thermo/physical conditions of the material, said actuator being operably connected to said system controller. 13. The fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein said substrate comprises a calibration device in electrical communication with said system controller. 14. The fabrication system according to claim 1 further comprising: one or more modules attachable to the substrate, wherein said modules have a receptacle capable of receiving material dispensed from the material deposition tool. 15. The fabrication system according to claim 14, wherein the receptacle is contained in an enclosure. 16. The fabrication system according to claim 15, wherein said modules are capable of achieving a controlled environment. 17. The fabrication system according to claim 15, wherein the enclosure is permeable or non-permeable. 18. The fabrication system according to claim 15, wherein the enclosure comprises: an access port through which material from the material deposition tool is dispensed into the receptacle. 19. The fabrication system according to claim 15, wherein the enclosure is a hermetically sealed envelope. 20. The fabrication system according to claim 14, wherein the receptacle is configured to receive a liquid, a gas, and/or a solid. 21. The fabrication system according to claim 14, wherein the module comprises: one or more sensors in electrical communication with said system controller. 22. The fabrication system according to claim 14, wherein the module comprises: an actuator capable of maintaining or altering thermo/physical conditions of the receptacle, said actuator being operably connected to the system controller. 23. The fabrication system according to claim 1 further comprising: a transfer device capable of moving the plurality of material deposition tools or components thereof between the tool interface of said material deposition device and the tool mounts of said tool rack, wherein said transfer device is operably connected to said system controller. 24. The fabrication system according to claim 23, wherein said transfer device is a robotic arm. 25. The fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein the system is enclosed in a chamber capable of achieving a controlled environment. 26. An article fabrication system comprising: a material deposition tool containing one or more materials useful in fabricating the article; a material deposition device having a tool interface for receiving said material deposition tool, the tool interface of said material deposition device being movable relative to a substrate to dispense material from the material deposition tool to the substrate; an enclosure defining a receptacle for enclosing the substrate in a confined environment segregated from other components of said system and capable of receiving material dispensed from the material deposition tool, wherein said enclosure is attachable to the substrate; and a system controller operably connected to said material deposition device to control operation of said material deposition device. 27. The fabrication system according to claim 26, wherein said enclosed receptacle is permeable. 28. The fabrication system according to claim 26, wherein said enclosed receptacle is non-permeable. 29. The fabrication system according to claim 26, wherein said enclosed receptacle comprises: an access port through which material from the material deposition tool is dispensed into the receptacle. 30. The fabrication system according to claim 26, wherein said receptacle comprises a hermetically sealed envelope. 