An apparatus for controlling the movements of an avatar in a virtual environment includes a user input means, such as a gamepad with a plurality of joystick-controlled and button-controlled outputs, a tracker, and optional sliding foot pedals; a processor for running virtual environment (VE) software that includes an avatar moving through the VE; and a control mapping algorithm. The algorithm maps the gamepad, tracker, and optional sliding foot pedal outputs to the avatar's course, heading, displacement, and view, with the joysticks mapped to provide open loop directional control over the course and heading of the avatar, the tracker providing open loop control over the view, and the optional sliding foot pedals providing open loop control over displacement. The operator-controlled movement of the avatar in the virtual environment is displayed to the operator on a computer desktop display or a head mounted display.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for controlling the movements of an avatar in a virtual environment, comprising: a gamepad including a first joystick and a second joystick and having a plurality of outputs responsive to user-controlled movements of each joystick and user-controlled buttons; a tracker to provide an open-loop control over a head pose; a processor programmed for running a virtual environment software program including an avatar programmed to move in the virtual environment with a course, heading, and displacement and a control mapping algorithm for mapping the outputs of the gamepad to the avatar course, heading, and displacement, wherein the first joystick is mapped to provide an open loop directional control over the steering of the avatar and the second joystick is mapped to provide an open loop directional control over the offset of the avatar to thereby provide an open-loop control over the course and heading of the avatar, the avatar moves in accordance to a computed situated-heading and the head-pose, wherein the situated-heading is a global four degrees-of-freedom (X, Y, Z, Yaw) describing a translation and orientation of the head of the avatar, the head-pose has six degrees-of-freedom describing a translation (X,Y, Z) and rotation (Yaw, Pitch, Roll) of the head of the avatar relative to the situated-heading, and the head-pose combines with the situated-heading to yield a viewpoint of the avatar that is a global six degrees-of-freedom describing the translation and rotation of the head of the avatar in a virtual world, thereby varying the head-pose separately from the situated-heading to direct the viewpoint without redirecting the avatar's course or heading; and a display for displaying the movement of the avatar in the virtual environment. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second joystick is mapped to provide a course-offset. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second joystick is mapped to provide a heading-offset. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the tracker is attached to said gamepad and the tracker may register anywhere from two degrees-of-freedom (Yaw, Pitch) to six degrees-of-freedom (X, Y, Z, Yaw, Pitch, Roll). 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the display is a head mountable display and the tracker is attached thereto. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the situated-heading is a global four degrees-of-freedom (X, Y, Z, Yaw) describing a translation and orientation of the head of the avatar when the avatar is in an upright stance looking straight ahead and where the viewpoint determines a user's first-person view of the virtual world from a perspective of the avatar. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the display is a head-mountable display and further comprising a video rendering system for providing a mono or stereo video image to the head-mountable display. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the display is a desk-top monitor display and further comprising a video rendering system for providing a mono or stereo video image to the desk-top monitor display. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a pair of sliding foot pedals mapped for open-loop translational control of a displacement of the avatar, wherein each pedal slides forward and backward along a linear track and the combined displacement of the pedals provides a single degree-of-freedom value which is scaled and applied to displace the avatar along the course. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the movements of the avatar are three dimensional. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the heading is panned to turn the avatar in a smooth and continuous manner. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the course is realigned to the direction of the heading in effect when the second joystick becomes disengaged. 13. An apparatus for controlling the movements of an avatar in a virtual environment, comprising: a pair of dual-axis directional input control devices having a plurality of outputs responsive to user-controlled operations of the directional control axes and user-controlled buttons; a tracker to provide an open-loop control over a head pose; a processor programmed for running a virtual environment software program including an avatar programmed to move in the virtual environment with a course, heading, and displacement and a control mapping algorithm for mapping the outputs of the directional input control devices to the avatar course and heading, wherein a first directional control axes are mapped to provide open loop directional control over the steering of the avatar and a second directional control axes are mapped to provide an open loop directional control over the offset of the avatar to thereby provide an open-loop control over the course and heading of the avatar, the avatar moves in accordance to a computed situated-heading and the head-pose, wherein the situated-heading is a global four degrees-of-freedom (X, Y, Z, Yaw) describing a translation and orientation of the head of the avatar, the head-pose has six degrees-of-freedom describing a translation (X, Y, Z) and rotation (Yaw, Pitch, Roll) of the head of the avatar relative to the situated-heading, and the head-pose combines with the situated-heading to yield a viewpoint of the avatar that is a global six degrees-of-freedom describing the translation and rotation of the head of the avatar in a virtual world, thereby varying the head-pose separately from the situated-heading to direct the viewpoint without redirecting the avatar's course or heading; and a display for displaying the movement of the avatar in the virtual environment. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the heading is panned to turn the avatar in a smooth and continuous manner. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the course is realigned to the direction of the heading in effect when the second joystick becomes disengaged. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a third directional input control device. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the third directional input control device is mapped to provide a course or heading offset not directed by the second directional input control device. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the third directional input control device is mapped to direct the head-pose of the avatar as an open-loop control. 19. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the tracker is attached to said gamepad. 20. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the display is a head mountable display and the tracker is attached thereto. 21. An apparatus for controlling the movements of an avatar in a virtual environment, comprising: a gamepad including a first joystick and a second joystick and having a plurality of outputs responsive to user-controlled movements of each joystick and user-controlled buttons; a tracker to provide an open-loop control over a head pose; a processor programmed for running a virtual environment software program including an avatar programmed to move in the virtual environment with a course, heading, and displacement, and a control mapping algorithm for mapping the outputs of the gamepad to the avatar course and heading, wherein the first joystick is mapped to provide an open loop directional control over the steering of the avatar when the second joystick is not engaged, control over the course and heading are uncoupled when the second joystick is engaged, such that the first joystick provides open loop directional control over the heading and the second joystick is mapped to provide an open loop directional control over the offset of the course from the heading in effect when the second joystick becomes engaged, thereby providing open loop control over the course and heading of the avatar while facilitating a transition between steering, oblique, and scanning motions, the avatar moves in accordance to a computed situated-heading and the head-pose, wherein the situated-heading is a global four degrees-of-freedom (X, Y, Z, Yaw) describing a translation and orientation of the head of the avatar, the head-pose has six degrees-of-freedom describing a translation (X, Y, Z) and rotation (Yaw, Pitch, Roll) of the head of the avatar relative to the situated-heading, and the head-pose combines with the situated-heading to yield a viewpoint of the avatar that is a global six degrees-of freedom describing the translation and rotation of the head of the avatar in a virtual world, thereby varying the head-pose separately from the situated-heading to direct the viewpoint without redirecting the avatar's course or heading; and a display for displaying the movement of the avatar in the virtual environment. 