Methods and apparatus for increasing the processing throughput of multiple lots of semiconductor wafers through a cluster tool while maintaining a constant wafer history for each lot are provided. A first lot of wafers containing one through n-th wafers is introduced into a cluster tool containing one or more processing chambers. The first lot of wafers is processed for a first time period. A second lot of wafers containing one through n-th wafers is introduced into the cluster tool prior to completion of the first time period, wherein the second lot is introduced so as to minimize a time gap between the n-th wafer of the first lot of wafers and the first wafer of the second lot of wafers while maintaining a first constant wafer history for each wafer within the first lot and maintaining a second constant wafer history for each wafer in the second lot.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for increasing the processing throughput of multiple lots of semiconductor wafers through a cluster tool while maintaining a constant wafer history for each lot, comprising: defining a first substrate processing sequence that has two or more processing steps; defining a second processing sequence that has two or more processing steps, wherein at least one of the processing steps in the second substrate processing sequence has a processing time that is different than all of the processing steps within the first substrate processing sequence or the second substrate processing sequence has a different number of processing steps than the first substrate processing sequence; processing a first batch of substrates in the cluster tool using the first substrate processing sequence; processing a second batch of substrates in the cluster tool using the second substrate processing sequence, wherein the start of the first process step on the first substrate in the second batch is controlled relative to the start of the first process step on the last substrate in the first batch of substrates so that each substrate in the first batch of substrates has the same processing time for each processing step in the first substrate processing sequence, each substrate in the second batch of substrates has the same processing time for each processing step in the second substrate processing sequence, the relative time between each of the processing steps that each substrate in the first batch experiences is generally constant, and the relative time between each of the processing steps that each substrate in the second batch experiences is generally constant; transferring each substrate of the first batch of substrates and the second batch of substrates through the cluster tool using a first robot assembly at a maximum robot limited throughput for the first substrate processing sequence and the second substrate processing sequence; and implementing skip steps in the first substrate processing sequence and the second substrate processing sequence when sending each of the first batch of substrates and the second batch of substrates through the cluster tool such that an average substrate throughput of the cluster tool is equal to or greater than an average substrate throughput of a subsequent processing tool. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the processing steps is selected from a group comprising depositing one or more uniform resist layers on the surface of the first substrate, patterning the substrate surface by exposing the resist layer to a resist modifying electromagnetic radiation, and developing the patterned resist layer. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising minimizing a gap of time between the start of the first process step on the first substrate in the second batch and the start of the first process step on the last substrate in the first batch of substrates. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first substrate processing sequence comprises a lithography processing sequence. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein defining the first substrate processing sequence and defining the second substrate processing sequence further comprises maximizing cascading flexibility. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: storing the first substrate process sequence and the second substrate process sequence on a storage device; and transferring the the first substrate process sequence and the second substrate process sequence from the storage device to a controller in communication with the cluster tool. 7. A cluster tool for processing substrates, comprising: a first processing rack having one or more processing chambers; a first robot assembly adapted to access a substrate positioned in the one or more processing chambers; a controller adapted to control the movement of the substrate through the one or more processing chambers; a memory coupled to the controller, the memory comprising a computer readable medium having a computer readable program embodied therein for directing the operation of the cluster tool, the computer-readable program comprising: computer instructions to control the first robot assembly movement comprising: defining a first substrate processing sequence that has two or more processing steps; defining a second processing sequence that has two or more processing steps, wherein at least one of the processing steps in the second substrate processing sequence has a processing time that is different than all of the processing steps within the first substrate processing sequence or the second substrate processing sequence has a different number of processing steps than the first substrate processing sequence; processing a first batch of substrates in the cluster tool using the first substrate processing sequence; processing a second batch of substrates in the cluster tool using the second substrate processing sequence, wherein the start of the first process step on the first substrate in the second batch is controlled relative to the start of the first process step on the last substrate in the first batch of substrates so that each substrate in the first batch of substrates has the same processing time for each processing step in the first substrate processing sequence, each substrate in the second batch of substrates has the same processing time for each processing step in the second substrate processing sequence, the relative time between each of the processing steps that each substrate in the first batch experiences is generally constant, and the relative time between each of the processing steps that each substrate in the second batch experiences is generally constant, moving the first robot assembly at a maximum robot limited throughput for the first substrate processing sequence and the second substrate processing sequence; and implementing skip steps in the first substrate processing sequence and the second substrate processing sequence when sending each of the first batch of substrates and the second batch of substrates through the cluster tool such that an average substrate throughput of the cluster tool is equal to or greater than an average substrate throughput of a subsequent processing tool. 8. The cluster tool of claim 7, further comprising: a second processing rack having one or more processing chambers; and a second robot adapted to transfer a substrate between a substrate processing chamber in the first processing rack and a substrate processing chamber in the second processing rack. 9. The cluster tool of claim 7, wherein at least one of the one or more processing units comprises a coater chamber. 10. The cluster tool of claim 7, wherein at least one of the one or more processing units is selected from one of the following: a coater chamber, a developer chamber, a hexamethyldisilazane process chamber, a chill chamber, and a bake chamber. 11. The cluster tool of claim 7, wherein the one or more processing chambers are vertically stacked. 12. The cluster tool of claim 7, wherein the first robot assembly is adapted to transfer substrates between the one or more processing chambers contained in the first processing rack. 13. The cluster tool of claim 7, wherein the subsequent processing tool comprises a scanner tool. 14. The cluster tool of claim 7, wherein implementing the skip step comprises: scheduling a phantom substrate through the cluster tool; and moving the fist robot assembly through the cluster tool in response to the phantom substrate. 15. The cluster tool of claim 7, further comprising transferring each substrate from the first batch of substrates and the second batch of substrates to the scanner tool for further processing. 16. The cluster tool of claim 15, further comprising buffering each substrate from the first batch of substrates and the second batch of substrates if the scanner tool is occupied. 17. The cluster tool of claim 16, wherein the skip steps are implemented if the buffer begins to fill beyond a substrate send limit. 