A method of manufacturing or handling a substantially pure object includes shielding the substantially pure object from the environment by substantially enveloping the object in a fluid. A system for manufacturing a substantially pure object includes a mold for forming the object, and a machine adapted to remove the object from the mold. The machine includes a handling device for gripping the object and removing it from the mold. The handling device includes at least one nozzle through which fluid is delivered to substantially envelope the object during, for example, removal of the object from the mold. The object may be a medical object, such as a syringe, or a component or part thereof, such as a syringe barrel or plunger. In a preferred aspect, a molding process is conducted in a room exhibiting less than Class 100 conditions and/or in such a way that the object does not need to be subsequently cleaned or rinsed, as by air or water washing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing and handling a substantially pure object, comprising: molding the substantially pure object in a mold by thermo-forming; removing the substantially pure object from the mold; handling the substantially pure object; conveying at least one nozzle, for discharging a fluid, along with the substantially pure object during the handling; and shielding the substantially pure object from the environment by substantially enveloping the substantially pure object in an envelope made by the fluid upon the mold opening and maintaining the envelope of the fluid about the substantially pure object during the steps of removing and handling. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the substantially pure object is a medical container or a component of a medical container. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the fluid is a gas. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the gas is air, filtered air, conditioned air or deionized air. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the fluid comprises at least one sterilizing agent. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the removing step is conducted by a machine. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the machine is a robotic machine. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the mold comprises an ejector mounted therein. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein the machine comprises the at least one nozzle for discharging the fluid to substantially envelope the substantially pure object. 10. The method of claim 6 wherein the machine comprises a handling device for handling the substantially pure object. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the handling device comprises the at least one nozzle for discharging the fluid to substantially envelope the substantially pure object. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the handling device comprises a pair of grippers. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein the handling device comprises a housing for substantially surrounding the substantially pure object. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein, in the removing step, a movement of the substantially pure object from the mold is started at a low speed. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the removing step is conducted before object cooling is complete. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the mold comprises another at least one nozzle through which fluid is conveyed to substantially envelope the object. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the mold exhibits a surface that is treated to exhibit a minimum adhesive force. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein the shielding step further comprises substantially surrounding the substantially pure object with a housing. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the housing is substantially bell shaped. 20. The method of claim 1 further comprising siliconizing the substantially pure object. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein the substantially pure object is substantially enveloped by a fluid during subsequent handling and/or processing steps. 22. The method of claim 1 wherein the shielding step further operates to cool the substantially pure object. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the cooling effect is fast-cooling or slow-cooling. 24. The method of claim 1, further comprising: assembling one or more components with the substantially pure object. 25. The method of claim 1 wherein the substantially pure object is a syringe barrel. 26. The method of claim 1 wherein the mold is disposed in a room not exceeding Class 100,000 conditions. 27. The method of claim 1, further comprising: siliconizing the substantially pure object; inspecting the substantially pure object; and packaging the substantially pure object. 28. method of claim 1 wherein the fluid is adapted to influence surface characteristics of the substantially pure object. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the fluid hardens or dries to form a surface coating on the substantially pure object. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of molding the substantially pure object comprises molding the substantially pure object without the need for one or more subsequent cleaning steps. 31. The method of claim 1 further comprising one or more subsequent cleaning steps comprising air or water cleaning steps. 32. The method of claim 1 wherein the substantially pure object comprises a syringe barrel. 33. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of molding the substantially pure object comprises molding the substantially pure object with a molding machine located in a room not exceeding Class 1000 conditions. 34. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of removing the substantially pure object from the mold in a generally soft or semi-molten state, and wherein said step of shielding comprises substantially enveloping the object in a fluid to cool the substantially pure object to reduce cooling stresses in the substantially pure object. 