An automated process for detecting the presence of a target nucleic acid in a sample. The process is performed in a stand-alone unit and includes separating the target nucleic acid from other material present in the sample, engaging a robotic pipettor to combine the separated target nucleic acid and reagents for performing an amplification reaction, and performing an amplification reaction. A product of the amplification reaction is detected as an indication of the presence of the target nucleic acid in the sample.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for detecting the presence of a target nucleic acid in a sample containing the target nucleic acid, the process comprising the automated steps of: a) immobilizing the target nucleic acid on a magnetically responsive particle; b) subjecting the magnetically responsive particle to a magnetic field and aspirating non-immobilized components of the sample; c) combining the target nucleic acid immobilized in step a) and reagents for performing an amplification reaction using a robotic pipettor; d) performing an amplification reaction which produces an amplification product indicative of the presence of the target nucleic acid in the sample; and e) detecting the amplification product of step d) as an indication of the presence of the target nucleic acid in the sample, wherein the steps of the process are performed in a self-contained analyzer. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein the non-immobilized components of the sample include non-target nucleic acid. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein the target nucleic acid is hybridized to a capture probe prior to immobilizing the target nucleic acid on the magnetically responsive particle. 4. The process of claim 1 further comprising the step of forming a complex comprising the amplification product and a probe, wherein the amplification product is detected in step e) by detecting the formation of the complex. 5. The process of claim 4, wherein the probe includes a detectable label. 6. The process of claim 4, wherein the amplification product is a nucleic acid sequence that is the same as or complementary to a sequence of the target nucleic acid, and wherein the probe is hybridized to the amplification product. 7. The process of claim 1, wherein steps a)-e) are performed at a plurality of stations contained within a housing of the analyzer. 8. The process of claim 7, wherein the stations are located on a processing deck. 9. The process of claim 7, wherein the analyzer is movable. 10. The process of claim 1, wherein the amplification reaction is selected from the group consisting of a polymerase chain reaction, a strand displacement amplification, and a transcription-associated amplification. 11. A process for detecting the presence of a target nucleic acid in a sample containing the target nucleic acid, the process comprising the automated steps of: a) immobilizing the target nucleic acid on a magnetically responsive particle; b) subjecting the magnetically responsive particle to a magnetic field and aspirating non-immobilized components of the sample; c) after step b), washing the magnetically responsive particle one or more times with a wash solution; d) combining the target nucleic acid immobilized in step a) and reagents for performing an amplification reaction using a robotic pipettor; e) performing an amplification reaction which produces an amplification product indicative of the presence of the target nucleic acid in the sample; and f) detecting the amplification product of step e) as an indication of the presence of the target nucleic acid in the sample, wherein the steps of the process are performed in a self-contained analyzer. 12. The process of claim 11 further comprising the step of forming a complex comprising the amplification product and a probe, wherein the amplification product is detected in step f) by detecting the formation of the complex. 13. The process of claim 12, wherein the probe includes a detectable label. 14. The process of claim 11, wherein steps a)-f) are performed at a plurality of stations contained within a housing of the analyzer. 15. The process of claim 14, wherein the stations are located on a processing deck. 16. The process of claim 14, wherein the analyzer is movable. 17. The process of claim 11, wherein the amplification reaction is selected from the group consisting of a polymerase chain reaction, a strand displacement amplification, and a transcription-associated amplification. 18. The process of claim 12, wherein the amplification product is a nucleic acid sequence that is the same as or complementary to a sequence of the target nucleic acid, and wherein the probe is hybridized to the amplification product. 