An instrumentation interface that provides a standardized states of a plurality of devices to a control system. Coordinating the operation of the plurality of devices in an analytical system is simplified by allowing the control system to perform in terms of simplified standard states. Device specific states that vary for different types of devices are logically linked to the standardized states via a form of a translator. By having the control system not worry about the specifics of a device, its ability to coordinate large number of devices is improved.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for coordinated communication and management of biological instrumentation, the system comprising: a client component configured to manage the operation of a plurality of biological analyzers, said client component comprising a state logic component configured to process operational state changes associated with a first biological analyzer and determine an associated operational state of a second biological analyzer such that the client component, in response to processing a state change from a first state to a second state associated with the first biological analyzer, determines a desired operational state of the second biological analyzer based upon the second state of the first biological analyzer and transmits instructions to the second biological analyzer to effectuate the desired operational state; and a plurality of analyzer components associated with the plurality of biological analyzers configured to receive said instructions from the client component and translate the instructions into commands capable of inducing the associated biological analyzer to achieve the desired operational state. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions transmitted by the client component are generic instructions that are translated by the analyzer components into specific commands capable of inducing the associated biological analyzer to achieve the desired operational state such that the state logic component can be updated to process operational state changes associated with new and existing biological analyzers without substantial modification of the generic instructions. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of biological analyzers comprise applications configured to conduct biological data analysis. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of biological analyzers comprise instruments configured to conduct biological data analysis. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the plurality of biological analyzers comprise at least one instrument selected from the group consisting of: thermal cyclers, sequence detection instruments, mass spectrometers, and electrophoresis instruments. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of biological analyzers comprise at least one robotic instrument configured to identify and physically manipulate at least one biological sample. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one directory configured to provide information to the client component as to logical location and parameters of said plurality of analyzer components such that the client component is able to manage the plurality of biological analyzers by referencing the information provided by the at least one directory to induce a selected biological analyzer to achieve the desired operational state. 8. The system of claim 7, further comprising at least one server component configured to provide data to the at least one directory that describes the operational parameters associated with the selected biological analyzer. 9. The system of claim 7, further comprising a messaging service that provides a mechanism for communication between the plurality of analyzer components and the client component such that a new biological analyzer can be configured for management by the client component by associating at least one of the analyzer components with said new biological analyzer and updating the at least one directory with information as to the logical location of the analyzer component allowing the client component to manage the operational state of the new biological analyzer using the operational parameters provided by the at least one directory. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of analyzer components comprises application modules, including: a state model module configured to maintain the functional state of the biological analyzer within a corresponding state model, wherein the client component instructions effectuate transitions within the state model; and a translation module, which translates instructions received from the client component into operational commands recognized by the biological analyzer. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the instructions effectuate changes between a normal operational state and a fault state for a selected biological analyzer. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the normal operational state for the selected biological analyzer comprise a state selected from the group consisting of: task state, standby state, or completed state. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the client component instructs the second biological analyzer to enter the task state when it is in the standby state awaiting the completion of the first biological analyzer and the client component determines the first biological analyzer has entered the completed state. 14. The system of claim 1, further comprising a system monitoring device that monitors the operating conditions of the plurality of biological analyzers. 15. A method for coordinated communication and management of biological instrumentation, the method comprising: monitoring generically represented operational states for a plurality of biological analyzers determined at least in part from analyzer-specific operational states associated with the biological analyzers wherein the analyzer-specific operational states are transformed into the generically represented operational states; determining at least one desired generically represented operational state for a first biological analyzer based upon a change in operational state of a second biological analyzer from a first generically represented operational state to a second generically represented operational state, wherein the determination is based at least in part on the monitored generically represented operational states for the plurality of biological analyzers; and transmitting generically represented operational commands to the plurality of biological analyzers, wherein the generically represented operational commands are transformed into analyzer-specific operational commands recognizable by the plurality of biological analyzers to thereby effectuate the achievement of the desired operational state in the first biological analyzer upon detection of a change in the operational state of the second biological analyzer from the first generically represented operational state to the second generically represented operational state. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein monitoring the generically represented operational states for the plurality of biological analyzers comprises determining when a selected biological analyzer is in a state selected from the group consisting of: a normal state, a fault state, a task state, a standby state, and a completed state. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein determining interrelated operational functioning for the plurality of biological analyzers comprises evaluating a current operational state for a first biological analyzer and in response, changing a second biological analyzer's operational state based at least in part upon the first biological analyzer's operational state. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the second biological analyzer's operational state is changed to a task state from a standby state based upon the first biological analyzer's operational state being determined as a completed state. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the generically represented operational commands transmitted to a selected biological analyzer are transformed by a front end component associated with the selected analyzer. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein the generically represented operational commands transmitted to a selected biological analyzer are transformed at a location other than at the selected analyzer. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein monitoring generically represented operational states for a plurality of biological analyzers comprises monitoring operational states for biological analyzers configured to analyze information selected from the group consisting of: nucleic acids, peptides, and proteins. 22. The method of claim 15, wherein monitoring generically represented operational states for a plurality of biological analyzers comprises monitoring operational states for biological analyzers selected from the group consisting of: thermal cyclers, sequence detection instruments, mass spectrometers and electrophoresis instruments. 23. The method of claim 15, wherein monitoring generically represented operational states and transmitting generically represented operational commands is facilitated by at least one directory configured to provide information about logical location and operational parameters associated with the plurality of biological analyzers, such that the monitoring or transmitting is achieved at least in part by referencing the information provided by the at least one directory to effectuate changes in the operational states for a selected biological analyzer. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one directory is associated with at least one server component configured for transmitting information of the at least one directory. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein a messaging service provides a mechanism for communicating with the plurality of biological analyzers. 