A robotic joint configured as a 3-axis joint configured with a shoulder or other human joint form factor. The joint includes a first link made up of a block attaching to a torso and a stationary electric actuator assembly mounted to the block. A second link is connected to the first link to rotate about a first axis and be driven by the actuator assembly. A third link is attached to the second link to rotate about a second axis orthogonal to the first axis when the third link is driven by the actuator assembly. A fourth link is connected to the third link to rotate about a third axis orthogonal to the second axis when the fourth link is driven by the actuator assembly. The actuator assembly includes three electric motors with threaded drive capstans driving pulleys in the links while being spaced apart from the rotating links.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic joint, comprising: a first link for attaching to a structural member of a robot body and comprising an electric actuator assembly mounted to a block; a second link attached to the first link that is driven by the electric actuator assembly to rotate about a first axis; a third link attached to the second link that is driven by the electric actuator assembly to rotate about a second axis orthogonal to the first axis; a fourth link attached to the third link that is driven by the electric actuator assembly to rotate about a third axis orthogonal to the second axis; a set of cables connected to the electric actuator assembly and to the second, third, and fourth links; and a roll drum mounted to the second link and attached to the cables to be driven by an electric motor to rotate about the first axis, wherein the first axis extends through the first link. 2. The robotic joint of claim 1, wherein the electric actuator assembly comprises three electric motors independently operable to drive the second, third, and fourth links and wherein the electric motors are spaced apart from the second, third, and fourth links, whereby the second, third, and fourth links are adapted for rotation apart from the electric motors. 3. The robotic joint of claim 2, wherein the electric actuator assembly further comprises three pulleys each connected to the output of one of the electric motors and to the cables to drive the second, third, and fourth links and wherein the three pulleys are positioned within the block. 4. The robotic joint of claim 1, further comprising a pair of shoulder drive pulleys mounted for rotation about the second axis and attached to the cables such that each of the shoulder drive pulleys is driven independently by one of the electric motors that differs from the electric motor driving the roll drum, wherein the cables driving the shoulder drive pulleys extend through the roll drum substantially parallel to the first axis. 5. The robotic joint of claim 4, wherein the shoulder drive pulleys are each rigidly attached to a gear mounted for rotation on the third link and wherein the fourth link comprises a gear driven member meshing with the gears attached to the shoulder drive pulleys to provide a rotation output about the third axis. 6. The robotic joint of claim 5, wherein the gears are each bevel gears and wherein the gears attached to the shoulder drive pulleys have an equal number of teeth. 7. A robotic joint for positioning in a human-joint form factor such as a shoulder joint, comprising: a cable driven differential generating a rotation output about an output roll axis; a roll drum rotatably mounted for rotation about an input roll axis; a cable transmission comprising cables extending through a passageway in the roll drum to connections on the differential and cables connected to the roll drum; and an electric actuator assembly with an output connected to the cables of the cable transmission and operating to independently drive the differential to create the rotation output and the roll drum to cause the roll drum to rotate about the input roll axis, wherein the roll drum is positioned between the electric actuator and the differential, wherein the input roll axis extends through the electric actuator assembly. 8. The robotic joint of claim 7, wherein the differential comprises a pair of side bevel gears meshed with an output member with a bevel gear portion meshing with the side bevel gears to rotate at the rotation output and wherein the side bevel gears are connected to pulleys that are connected to the cables of the cable transmission and rotatably mounted to be driven by the electric actuator assembly about a pitch axis that is orthogonal to the input roll axis. 9. The robotic joint of claim 8, wherein the electric actuator assembly comprises three electric motors with output pulleys positioned within a housing and attached to the cables of the cable transmission to independently drive the roll drum and the pulleys connected to the side bevel gears of the differentials wherein the input roil axis extends through the housing. 10. The robotic joint of claim 9, further comprising a T-shaped link member upon which the side bevel gears are mounted to rotate about a pitch axis and upon which the output member is mounted to rotate with the T-shaped link about the pitch axis and to rotate based on movement of the side bevel gears about the output roll axis, wherein the pitch axis is orthogonal to the input roll axis and to the output roll axis. 11. The robotic joint of claim 7, wherein the differential is attached to the roll drum to rotate about the input roll axis with the roll drum. 12. A robotic figure with a shoulder, comprising: an actuator assembly comprising three electric motors with pulleys directly attached to outputs of the electric motors and a block housing the pulleys and supporting the electric motors; a differential spaced apart from the actuator and generating an output rotation; a set of cable segments connecting the actuator pulleys of first and second ones of the electric motors to the differential, wherein the differential is driven by operation of the first and second electric motors; and a roll drum positioned between the actuator pulleys and the differential and mounted for rotation about an input roll axis that extends through the block, wherein the roll drum is connected by one or more cable segments to the actuator pulley of a third one of the electric motors to be driven by the third electric motor and wherein the cable segments connecting the differential to the actuator pulleys of the first and second electric motors extends through an opening in the roll drum. 13. The robotic figure of claim 12, wherein the differential comprises three meshing gears with first and second ones of the gears mounted for rotating about a pitch axis orthogonal to the input roll axis and with a third one of the gears positioned between the first and second gears mounted for rotating at the output rotation about an output roll axis orthogonal to the pitch axis. 14. The robotic figure of claim 13, wherein the third gear is attached to cylindrical stub and wherein the third gear and the stub are driven by the actuator to rotate about the pitch axis while the third gear is driven by the first and second gears to rotate about the output roll axis. 15. The robotic figure of claim 13, wherein the first and second gears have equal numbers of teeth. 16. The robotic figure of claim 13, wherein the first and second gears are each attached to a pulley that is attached by the set of cable segments to one of the first and second electric motors to be driven to rotate about the pitch axis with the pulley by operation of the first and second electric motors and wherein the differential is linked to the roll drum to rotate about the input roll axis when the roll drum is driven by the third electric motor. 17. The robotic joint of claim 7, wherein the roll drum and the cable driven differential are spaced apart from the electric actuator assembly a distance of less than about 10 inches. 