The embodiments described herein include a system and method for measuring a surface appearance of a surface. An appearance sensor is positionable about a surface and is configured to measure the surface appearance. A surface relationship sensor senses the distance between the appearance sensor and the surface. The appearance sensor is then positioned about the surface based on the sensed distance.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system for measuring a surface appearance of a surface, the system comprising: an appearance sensor being positionable about the surface and being configured to measure the surface appearance; a surface relationship sensor for sensing the distance between the appearance sensor and the surface, the surface relationship sensor providing a signal to the appearance sensor that corresponds to the distance; and wherein the appearance sensor is positioned about the surface in response to the signal. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the surface relationship sensor is a proximity sensor. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the surface relationship sensor is an ultrasonic sensor. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising an integrated paint quality control system (IPQCS), wherein the IPQCS receives signals from the appearance sensor and the surface relationship sensor, the IPQCS controlling paint quality of the surface in response to the received signals. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the appearance sensor being positionable about the surface includes the appearance sensor being positioned at an angle in a range of 85.degree. to 95.degree. with respect to the surface. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the appearance sensor being positionable about the surface includes the appearance sensor being positioned within 10 centimeters (cm) of the surface. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a robotic arm having an operating end, wherein the appearance sensor and the surface relationship sensor are attached to the operating end of the robotic arm. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the appearance sensor being configured to measure the surface appearance includes the appearance sensor being configured to transmit a plurality of signals that are reflected by the surface and the appearance sensor measuring the reflected signals. 9. A method for measuring the surface appearance of a surface, the method comprising: sensing a distance between an appearance sensor and the surface through the use of a surface relationship sensor; generating a signal that corresponds to the distance; positioning the appearance sensor about the surface in response to the signal; and measuring the surface appearance through the use of the appearance sensor. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the surface relationship sensor is a proximity sensor. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the surface relationship sensor is an ultrasonic sensor. 12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving feedback signals from the appearance sensor and the surface relationship sensor at an integrated paint quality control system (IPQCS); and controlling paint quality of the surface in response to the feedback signals through the use of the IPQCS. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein positioning the appearance sensor about the surface includes positioning the appearance sensor at an angle in a range of 85.degree. to 95.degree. with respect to the surface. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein positioning the appearance sensor about the surface includes positioning the appearance sensor within 10 centimeters (cm) of the surface. 15. The method of claim 9, further comprising attaching the appearance sensor and the surface relationship sensor to an operating end of a robotic arm. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein measuring the surface appearance through the use of the appearance sensor includes transmitting a plurality of signals that are reflected by the surface and the appearance sensor measuring the reflected signals. 17. A system for measuring a surface appearance of a vehicle body surface, wherein the system includes a robotic arm having an operating end, the system comprising: an appearance sensor attached to the operating end, the appearance sensor being positionable about the vehicle body surface and being configured to measure the surface appearance, wherein the surface appearance is measured by transmitting a plurality of signals that are reflected by the surface, wherein the appearance sensor measures the reflected signals; a proximity sensor attached to the operating end, the proximity sensor sensing the distance between the appearance sensor and the vehicle body surface, the proximity sensor providing a signal to the appearance sensor that corresponds to the distance; and wherein the appearance sensor is positioned about the vehicle body surface in response to the signal. 18. The system of claim 17, further comprising an integrated paint quality control system (IPQCS), wherein the IPQCS receives signals from the appearance sensor and the proximity sensor, the IPQCS controlling paint quality of the vehicle body surface in response to the received signals. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the appearance sensor being positionable about the vehicle body surface includes the appearance sensor being positioned at an angle in a range of 85.degree. to 95.degree. with respect to the vehicle body surface. 20. The system of claim 17, wherein the appearance sensor being positionable about the vehicle body surface includes the appearance sensor being positioned within 10 centimeters (cm) of the vehicle body surface. 