An input device of a teleoperator system can be operatively associated with an image of a surgical worksite. Movement of the image may correspond to movement of the input device so that the worksite image appears substantially connected to the input device. The operator can manipulate the worksite into a desired position, typically by repositioning of an image capture device. Dedicated input devices may be provided for a surgical instrument.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of using a robotic system, the method comprising: displaying an image of a worksite on an image display; causing an end effector to move in response to operator manipulation of a master control when the end effector is operatively associated with the master control; receiving an indication that operative association of the master control has been switched from the end effector to an image control; and causing the displayed image to be altered so as to provide a different view of the worksite without moving the end effector in response to operator manipulation of the master control. 2. A robotic system comprising: an image capturing device for capturing an image of a worksite; an image display coupled to the image capturing device for displaying the captured image; an end effector; a master control; and a control system configured to switchably associate the master control between the end effector and the image capturing device so as to cause the end effector to move in response to manipulation of the master control when the end effector is associated with the master control and cause the displayed image to be altered without moving the end effector in response to manipulation of the master control when the image capturing device is associated with the master control. 3. The system as claimed in claim 2, further comprising: a selection input, the selection input being selectively actuatable to switch operative association between either the master control and the end effector or the master control and the image capturing device. 4. The system as claimed in claim 3, further comprising: a camera arm defining opposed ends, the image capturing device being mounted at one end of the camera arm. 5. The system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the master control includes a master arm with a hand-grippable part at one end and an opposed end, and wherein the control system is configured to switchably associate the master control with the image capture device so as to cause the image capture device to be displaced relative to the opposed end of the camera arm in response to movement of the hand-grippable part relative to the opposed end of the master arm, thereby to cause the image captured device to move relative to the worksite so as to alter the displayed image. 6. The system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the control system defines a camera reference frame attached relative to a viewing end of the image capture device and a world reference frame attached relative to the opposed end of the camera arm. 7. The system as claimed in claim 6, further comprising: camera arm sensors operatively associated with the camera arm, wherein the control system is configured to determine the location of the camera reference frame relative to the world reference frame from the camera arm sensors. 8. The system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the control system defines a master reference frame attached relative to the hand-grippable part and a world reference frame attached relative to the opposed end of the master arm. 9. The system as claimed in claim 8, further comprising: master arm sensors associated with the master arm, wherein the control system is configured to determine the location of the master reference frame relative to the world reference frame from the master arm sensors. 10. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the control system is arranged to compare the location of the camera reference frame relative to the world reference frame with the location of the master reference frame relative to the world reference frame. 11. The system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the control system is configured to compare a position of the camera reference frame relative to the world reference frame with a position of the master reference frame relative to the world reference frame. 12. The system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the control system is configured to compare an orientation of the camera reference frame relative to the world reference frame with an orientation of the master reference frame relative to the world reference frame. 13. The system as claimed in claim 10, further comprising: actuators associated with the camera arm for driving the image capture device to displace relative to the opposed end of the camera arm. 14. The system as claimed in claim 13, wherein the control system is configured to generate actuator command signals if the location of the camera reference frame relative to the world reference frame does not correspond with the location of the master reference relative to the world reference frame, the actuator command signals being generated so as to cause the actuators to drive the image capture device into a location in which the location of the camera reference frame relative to the world reference frame would correspond with the location of the master reference frame relative to the world reference frame in terms of a predetermined locational relationship between the camera reference frame relative to the world reference frame and the master reference frame relative to the world reference frame. 15. The system as claimed in claim 2, further comprising: a second master control, wherein each of the master control and the second master control includes a master arm defining opposing ends and a hand-grippable part mounted on one of the ends of the master arm, and the control system is configured to cause the displayed image to be altered in response to moving both hand-grippable parts relative to the opposed ends of the master arms. 16. The system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the control system is configured to inhibit movement of the hand-grippable parts relative to each other so as to cause the displayed image to be altered in response to moving both hand-grippable parts relative to the opposed ends of the master arms while movement of the hand-grippable parts relative to each other is inhibited. 17. The system as claimed in claim 16, wherein the control system defines a master reference frame attached relative to the hand-grippable parts and a world reference frame attached relative to the opposed ends of the master arms. 18. The system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the control system is configured to move the master reference frame relative to the world reference frame in response to sensors of the master arms sensing movement of the hand-grippable parts relative to opposed ends of the master arms. 19. The system as claimed in claim 15, further comprising: a second end effector, wherein the control system is configured to associate the end effector and the second end effector with the master control and the second master control to enable each of the end effectors to be moved in response to movement of the hand-grippable part of the associated master control. 20. A telerobotic system comprising: a viewer; a camera positionable at a remote site, the camera mounted on a robotic arm to enable it to be positionally adjustable at the remote site, and being operatively associated with the viewer to enable an image of the remote site to be displayed on the viewer; a slave instrument or tool positionable at the remote site, the tool being mounted on a robotic arm to enable it to be worked at the remote site; a master control device positioned in close proximity to the viewer to enable it to be manipulated by a user of the system whilst the user is viewing the remote site through the viewer, the master control device further being arranged selectively to establish control with the robotic arm of the camera and the robotic arm of the slave instrument, so that position adjustment of the camera and working of the tool can be effected by the master control. 21. A method implemented in a robotic system including a viewer and at least two master control devices, the viewer operatively associated with a remote camera arrangement so as to display an image viewed by the camera on the viewer, each of the at least two master control devices operatively connected to a remote instrument or tool so as to cause displacement of the instrument or tool in response to displacement of its associated master control device, the method for shifting the image relative to the instruments, the method comprising: locking the instruments at stationary positions; switching operative association of the master control devices from the instruments to the camera; moving the master control devices relative to the viewer whilst movement of the master control devices relative to each other is restrained; and causing the camera to displace relative to the instruments, whilst the instruments are held at their stationary positions, in response to the master control devices displacing relative to the viewer. 22. A method implemented in a minimally invasive surgical system including a viewer and two master control devices, the viewer operatively associated with an endoscope, each of the two master control devices operatively associated with at least one corresponding slave instrument, the method for shifting an image viewed through the viewer relative to the instruments, the method comprising: locking the slave instruments at stationary positions; switching operative association of the two master control devices from the slave instruments to the endoscope; moving the two master control devices relative to the viewer whilst the two master control devices are held at fixed positions relative to each other; and causing the endoscope to displace relative to the slave instruments, whilst the slave instruments are held at their stationary positions, in response to the two master control devices displacing relative to the viewer. 23. A robotic system comprising: an image capturing device for capturing an image of a worksite; an image display coupled to the image capturing device for displaying the captured image; an image transformer for transforming the captured image into regulatable information; an information regulator for regulating the regulatable information so as to enable the displayed image to be altered; an end effector; a master control; and a control system configured to switchably associate the master control between the end effector and the information regulator so as to cause the end effector to move in response to manipulation of the master control when the end effector is associated with the master control and cause the displayed image to be altered without moving the end effector in response to manipulation of the master control when the information regulator is associated with the master control. 24. The system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the control system is configured to associate the master control with the information regulator so as to cause the information regulator to regulate the regulatable information in response to movement of a hand-grippable part of the master control. 25. The system as claimed in claim 24, wherein the master control includes a master arm with the hand-grippable part at one end and an opposed end, wherein the hand-grippable part is positionally adjustable relative to the opposed end of the master arm, wherein the control system defines a master reference frame attached relative to the hand-grippable part and a world reference frame attached relative to the opposed end of the master arm, the control system configured to change a position of the master reference frame relative to the world reference frame in response to sensing movement of the hand-grippable part relative to the opposed end of the master arm, and wherein the control) system is configured to cause the information regulator to regulate the regulatable information in response to changing position of the master reference frame relative to the world reference frame. 26. The system as claimed in claim 24, wherein the master control includes a master arm with the hand-grippable part at one end and an opposed end, wherein the hand-grippable part is orientationally adjustable relative to the opposed end of the master arm, wherein the control system defines a master reference frame attached relative to the hand-grippable part and a world reference frame attached relative to the opposed end of the master arm, the control system configured to change an orientation of the master reference frame relative to the world reference frame in response to sensing movement of the hand-grippable part relative to the opposed end of the master arm, and wherein the control system is configured to cause the information regulator to regulate the regulatable information in response to changing orientation of the master reference frame relative to the world reference frame. 