In one embodiment, an apparatus for performing an atomic layer deposition (ALD) process is provided which includes a chamber body containing a substrate support, a lid assembly attached to the chamber body, a remote plasma system (RPS) in fluid communication with the reaction zone, a centralized expanding conduit extending through the lid assembly and expanding radially outwards, a first gas delivery sub-assembly configured to deliver a first process gas, and a second gas delivery sub-assembly configured to deliver a second process gas into the centralized expanding conduit. The first gas delivery sub-assembly contains an annular channel encircling and in fluid communication with the centralized expanding conduit, wherein the annular channel is adapted to deliver the first process gas through a plurality of passageways and nozzles and into the centralized expanding conduit. The second gas delivery sub-assembly contains a gas inlet in fluid communication to the centralized expanding conduit.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for performing an atomic layer deposition process, comprising: a chamber body comprising a substrate support; a lid assembly attached to the chamber body; a reaction zone between the lid assembly and the substrate support; a remote plasma system in fluid communication with the reaction zone; a centralized expanding conduit extending through the lid assembly and expanding radially outwards; a first gas delivery sub-assembly on the lid assembly and configured to deliver a first process gas, comprising: an annular channel encircling and in fluid communication with the centralized expanding conduit, wherein the annular channel is adapted to deliver the first process gas through a plurality of passageways and nozzles and into the centralized expanding conduit; and a first gas inlet and a second gas inlet coupled to the annular channel and positioned to provide the first process gas to the annular channel; and a second gas delivery sub-assembly on the lid assembly and configured to deliver a second process gas into the centralized expanding conduit, wherein the second gas delivery sub-assembly comprises a gas inlet in fluid communication to the centralized expanding conduit. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a first high speed actuating valve in fluid communication with the first gas inlet and a second high speed actuating valve in fluid communication with the second gas inlet. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first and second high speed actuating valves are independently configured to enable pulses of gases with a pulse time of about 1 second or less. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of nozzles is radially positioned or substantially radially positioned relative to the centralized expanding conduit. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of nozzles is tangentially positioned or substantially tangentially positioned relative to the centralized expanding conduit. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the centralized expanding conduit has a frusto-conical shape. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the centralized expanding conduit further comprises a conical concave lower surface to help evenly distribute gases within the chamber body. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the centralized expanding conduit extending through the lid assembly and expanding radially outwards to substantially cover a substrate disposed on the substrate support. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second gas inlet is positioned with the first gas inlet to form the circular gas flow pattern. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the circular gas flow pattern is selected from the group consisting of a vortex pattern, a spiral pattern and a derivative thereof. 11. An apparatus for performing an atomic layer deposition process, comprising: a chamber body comprising a substrate support; a lid assembly attached to the chamber body; a reaction zone between the lid assembly and the substrate support; a remote plasma system in fluid communication with the reaction zone; a centralized expanding conduit extending through the lid assembly and expanding radially outwards; and a first gas delivery sub-assembly on the lid assembly and configured to deliver a first process gas, comprising: an annular channel encircling and in fluid communication with the centralized expanding conduit, wherein the annular channel is adapted to deliver the first process gas through a plurality of passageways and nozzles and into the centralized expanding conduit; and a first gas inlet and a second gas inlet coupled to the annular channel and positioned to provide the first process gas to the annular channel. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the plurality of nozzles is radially positioned or substantially radially positioned relative to the centralized expanding conduit. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the plurality of nozzles is tangentially positioned or substantially tangentially positioned relative to the centralized expanding conduit. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the centralized expanding conduit has a frusto-conical shape. 15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the centralized expanding conduit further comprises a conical concave lower surface to help evenly distribute gases within the chamber body. 16. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a first high speed actuating valve in fluid communication with the first gas inlet and a second high speed actuating valve in fluid communication with the second gas inlet. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first and second high speed actuating valves are independently configured to enable pulses of gases with a pulse time of about 1 second or less. 18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the centralized expanding conduit extending through the lid assembly and expanding radially outwards to substantially cover a substrate disposed on the substrate support. 19. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the second gas inlet is positioned with the first gas inlet to form the circular gas flow pattern. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the circular gas flow pattern is selected from the group consisting of a vortex pattern, a spiral pattern and a derivative thereof. 