A semiconductor reticle transportation container includes a box and a base, the box having an opening and the base including a reticle support. The reticle is placed on the support and the box is placed on the base so that the reticle passes through the opening while being lifted off of the support by plungers contacting the lower edge of the reticle. After the box is closed, the reticle is compliantly constrained horizontally and vertically and is held away from the support.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A method of transporting a semiconductor reticle, said method comprising: providing a transportation container including a box and a base, said box having an opening and said base including a reticle support; placing a reticle on said support; and placing said box on said base so that said reticle on said support passes through said opening while lifting said reticle off of said support, said lifting defining a vertical direction. 2. A method of transporting a semiconductor reticle, said method comprising: providing a transportation container including a box and a base, said box having an opening and said base including a reticle support; placing a reticle on said support; and placing said box on said base so that said reticle on said support passes through said opening while engaging said reticle with a horizontally movable plunger, wherein said engaging comprises lifting said reticle off of said support, said lifting defining a vertical direction. 3. A method as in claim 2 wherein said lifting comprises engaging said reticle at its lower edges or corners. 4. A method as in claim 2 wherein said lifting comprises engaging said reticle with angled contact surfaces. 5. A method as in claim 2, and further comprising engaging the upper edges or corners of said reticle. 6. A method as in claim 2, and further comprising placing a vertical stop in a position just above said reticle without engaging said reticle. 7. A method as in claim 2, and further comprising transporting said reticle to a desired location, and, after said reticle is transported to said desired location, restraining it laterally and vertically in said box at a safe distance from said support until said box is opened. 8. A method as in claim 2 wherein there is no relative motion between said plunger and said reticle after said plunger engages said reticle. 9. A method of transporting a semiconductor reticle, said method comprising: providing a transportation container including a box and a base, said box having an opening and said base including a reticle support; placing a reticle on said support; and placing said box on said base so that said reticle on said support passes through said opening while engaging said reticle with a horizontally movable plunger; and further comprising retracting said plunger while opening said container so that it does not interfere with removal of said reticle from said support. 