Described herein is electroadhesion technology that permits controllable adherence between two objects. Electroadhesion uses electrostatic forces of attraction produced by an electrostatic adhesion voltage, which is applied using electrodes in an electroadhesive device. The electrostatic adhesion voltage produces an electric field and electrostatic adherence forces. When the electroadhesive device and electrodes are positioned near a surface of an object such as a vertical wall, the electrostatic adherence forces hold the electroadhesive device in position relative to the surface and object. This can be used to increase traction or maintain the position of the electroadhesive device relative to a surface. Electric control of the electrostatic adhesion voltage permits the adhesion to be controllably and readily turned on and off.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electroadhesive device configured to adhere to a substrate, the electroadhesive device comprising: a deformable surface adapted for interfacing with a surface of the substrate, wherein at least a portion of said deformable surface moves closer to the surface of the substrate when said electroadhesive device is adhering to the substrate: a first electrode configured to apply a first voltage at a first location of the deformable surface; a second electrode configured to apply a second voltage at a second location of the deformable surface, wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes an electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces an electrostatic force between the device and the substrate that is suitable to maintain a current position of the device relative to the substrate; and an insulation material disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode and configured to substantially maintain the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the insulation material includes the deformable surface. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein the insulation material is further disposed between the first electrode and a surface of the substrate and disposed between the second electrode and the surface. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein the insulation material includes a thickness less than about 2 millimeters between the first electrode and a surface of the substrate and between the second electrode and the surface of the substrate. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein the deformable surface includes a surface of a compliant material having an elastic modulus less than about 10 MPa. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein the deformable surface includes a surface of a material or structure that is bendable but not substantially elastically extendable. 7. The device of claim 1 wherein the surface of the substrate has a roughness greater than about 1 millimeter. 8. The device of claim 1 wherein the surface of the substrate is one of damp, greasy, or dusty. 9. The device of claim 1 wherein the electrostatic force between the device and the substrate is suitable to maintain a current position of the device relative to the substrate despite the presence of a particulate disposed between the deformable surface and the surface of the substrate. 10. The device of claim 1 further comprising circuitry configured to provide the electrostatic adhesion voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode. 11. The device of claim 10 wherein the circuitry includes step-up voltage circuitry that is configured to receive a voltage from a voltage source, which is less than about 40 volts, and configured to increase the voltage from the voltage source to the electrostatic adhesion voltage, which is above about 500 volts. 12. The device of claim 1 wherein the first voltage is about 500 volts greater than the second voltage. 13. The device of claim 12 wherein the second voltage is about zero volts. 14. The device of claim 1 further comprising a support structure mechanically coupled to a material that includes the deformable surface. 15. The device of claim 1 wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are less than about 1 millimeter from the surface of the substrate when the electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 16. The device of claim 15 wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are in contact with the surface when the electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 17. The device of claim 1 wherein the insulation material is in contact with the surface of the substrate when the differential voltage is applied. 18. An electroadhesive device configured to adhere to a substrate, the electroadhesive device comprising: a first electrode configured to apply a first voltage at a first location of the electroadhesive device; a second electrode configured to apply a second voltage at a second location of the electroadhesive device, wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes an electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces an electrostatic force between the device and the substrate that is suitable to maintain a current position of the device relative to the substrate; and a deformable insulation material a) disposed between the first electrode and a surface of the substrate, and/or b) disposed between the second electrode and the substrate surface, wherein the deformable insulation material includes a thickness less than about 2 millimeters between the first electrode and a surface of the substrate and between the second electrode and a surface of the substrate, and wherein the electrodes include one or more cilium configured to deform to the surface when the electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 19. The device of claim 18 wherein the deformable insulation material is also disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode and adapted to substantially maintain the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode. 20. The device of claim 18 wherein the deformable insulation material includes a compliant material with an elastic modulus less than about 10 MPa. 21. An electroadhesive device configured to adhere to a substrate, the electro adhesive device comprising: A deformable surface for interfacing with a surface of the substrate, wherein at least a portion of said deformable surface moves closer to the surface of the substrate when said electroadhesive device is adhering to the substrate: a first set of electrodes configured to apply a first voltage within about 2 millimeters of the deformable surface; a second set of electrodes configured to apply a second voltage within about 2 millimeters of the deformable surface, wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes and electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces and electrostatic force between the device and the substrate that is suitable to maintain a current position of the device relative to the substrate; and and insulation material disposed between electrodes in the first set of electrodes and electrodes in the second set of electrodes and adapted to substantially maintain the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first set of electrodes and the second set of electrodes. 22. The device of claim 21 wherein the first set of electrodes includes a first set of linear electrodes and the second set of electrodes includes a second set of linear electrodes that are interdigitated relative to the first set of linear electrodes. 23. The device of claim 21 wherein the interdigitation between the linear electrodes in the first set and linear electrodes in the second set includes a pitch is less than about 1 centimeter. 24. A method of adhering a device to a substrate comprising: Applying an electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between a first electrode at a first location of the deformable surface and a second electrode at a second location of the deformable surface; adhering the deformable surface of the substrate using an electrostatic attraction force provided by the electrostatic adhesion voltage device; after adhering the deformable surface of the device to the surface of the substrate. increasing surface area contact between the deformable surface and the surface of the substrate by deforming the deformable surface such that at least a portion of the deformable surface moves closer to the surface of the substrate; and maintaining the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode while the deformable surface of the device contacts the surface of the substrate. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the substrate acts as an insulator for the voltage difference between the first voltage and second voltage. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein the substrate has a resistivity greater than about 10.sup.12 ohm-cm. 27. The method of claim 24 wherein the substrate acts as a conductor for the voltage difference between the first voltage and second voltage. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the substrate has a resistivity less than about 10.sup.12ohm-cm. 29. The method of claim 24 further comprising an insulation material disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein the insulation material includes the deformable surface. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein the insulation material is further disposed between the first electrode and a surface of the substrate and disposed between the second electrode and the surface. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein the insulation material includes a thickness less than about 2 millimeters between the first electrode and a surface of the substrate and between the second electrode and the surface of the substrate. 33. The method of claim 24 wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are both in contact with the surface of the substrate when the differential voltage is applied. 34. The method of claim 24 wherein the substrate surface has a roughness greater than about 1 millimeter. 35. The method of claim 24 wherein the substrate surface is one of damp, greasy, or dusty. 36. The method of claim 24 wherein the electrostatic force between the device and the substrate is suitable to maintain a current position of the device relative to the substrate despite the presence of a particulate disposed between the deformable surface and the substrate surface. 37. The method of claim 24 wherein the electrostatic force includes a pattern that includes electric fields of different electric field strengths or different length scales in the substrate. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein the pattern is achieved by applying a second electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode at the first location of a deformable surface of the device and a third electrode at a third location of the deformable surface. 39. A method of adhering a device to a substrate comprising: applying an electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between a first electrode at a first location of a deformable surface of the device and a second electrode at a second location of the deformable surface; adhering the deformable surface to a surface of the substrate using an electrostatic attraction force provided by the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference; maintaining the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode while the deformable surface of the device contacts the surface of the substrate; and after adhering the deformable surface of the device to the surface of the substrate, increasing surface area contact between the deformable surface and the surface of the substrate by deforming the deformable surface. 40. The method of claim 39 further comprising a deformable insulation material, disposed between the first electrode and the substrate surface and disposed between the second electrode and the substrate surface, that includes the deformable surface. 41. The method of claim 40 wherein the deformable insulation material includes a thickness less than about 2 millimeters between the first electrode and the substrate surface and between the second electrode and the substrate surface. 42. The method of claim 40 wherein the deformable insulation material includes a compliant material with an elastic modulus less than about 10 MPa. 43. The method of claim 40 wherein the deformable insulation material is bendable but not substantially elastically extendable. 44. A method of adhering a device to a first and second substrate comprising: For an insulating substrate with a resistivity greater than about 10.sup.12ohm-cm, Applying an electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between a first electrode at a first location of the device and a second electrode at a second location of the device, Maintaining the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode and adhering a deformable surface of the device to a surface of the insulating substrate using an electrostatic attraction force provided by the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference, wherein at least a portion of the deformable surface moves closer to the surface of the insulating substrate when the device is adhering to the substrate; and for a conductive substrate with a resistivity less than about 10.sup.12ohm-cm, applying the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode at the first location of the device and the second electrode at the second location of the device, maintaining the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode, and adhering the deformable surface of the device to a surface of the conductive substrate using an electrostatic attraction force provided by the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference, wherein at least a portion of the deformable surface moves closer to the surface of the conductive substrate when the device is adhering to the substrate. 