Systems, methods, apparatus and software can provide visualization of the topology of a data protection system. Various devices making up the data protection system are displayed using graphical user interface elements such as icons. The display of the devices making up the data protection system illustrates the topology of the data protection system, connections among various system devices, device status information, device activity information, and/or device configuration information.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: data protection manager configured to at least one of: generate a data stream for backed up and direct a data stream to a storage device; an administration interface coupled to the data protection manager and to provide a user access to functionality of the data protection manager; a topology tool configured to: display, using the administration interface, a plurality of graphical user interface (GUI) elements, wherein at least one of the plurality of GUI elements represents at least one of a plurality of data protection system devices including a first protection device that stores backup data; and respond to user actuation of the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements by at least one of performing a command, displaying an additional GUI element, and displaying information about the at least one of the plurality of data protection system devices; a memory; and a processor coupled to the memory, wherein at least one of the data protection manager, the administration interface, and the topology tool are encoded as instructions stored in the memory and executable on the processor; wherein the topology tool is further configured to receive information about each of the plurality of data protection system devices, the information comprising device status information, device activity information, and device configuration information; wherein the device status information further comprises job failure information, service down information, and media loaded information. 2. A method comprising: providing, by an administration interface, a user access to functionality of a data protection manager; receiving information about each of a plurality of data protection system devices, including a first protection device that stores data copied from a first storage device during a backup operation, the information comprising device status information, device activity information and device configuration information; the device status information comprises service down information job failure information and media loaded information; displaying a plurality of graphical user interface (GUI) elements, the displaying performed by a topology tool using the administration interface, at least one of the plurality of GUI elements represents at least one of the plurality of data protection system devices; and the displaying presents an indication of a data protection system topology; and responding, by the topology tool, to the user actuation of the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements by at least one of performing a command, displaying an additional GUI element, and displaying information about the at least one of the plurality of data protection system devices. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the plurality of data protection system devices includes at least one of a master server computer system, a media server computer system, and a robotic device. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the information further comprises at least one of read activity information, write activity information, and data protection activity performance information. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the information further comprises at least one of shared device information and device connection information. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein the plurality of GUI elements further comprises at least one of an icon, a pull-down menu, a window, a window pane, a tree structure list, a button, a toolbar, a scrollbar, and a popup menu. 7. The method of claim 2 wherein the displaying further comprises: positioning the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements representing at least one of the plurality of data protection system devices with respect to another one of the plurality of GUI elements representing another one of the plurality of data protection system devices; and displaying at least one connecting line between the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements and the another one of the plurality of GUI elements. 8. The method of claim 2 wherein the user actuation of the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements further comprises at least one of clicking on the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements, dragging the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements, and selecting a menu option from the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements. 9. The method of claim 2 further comprising: obtaining additional information corresponding to at least one of the plurality of data protection system devices in response to the user actuation of the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements. 10. An apparatus comprising: means for providing, by an administration interface, a user access to functionality of a data protection manager; means for receiving information about each of a plurality of data protection system devices, including a first protection device that stores data copied from a first storage device during a backup operation, device status information, device activity information, and device configuration information; the device status information comprises service down information, job failure information job failure information and media loaded information; means for displaying a plurality of graphical user interface (GUI) elements, the displaying supported by a topology tool using the administration interface, at least one of the plurality of GUI elements represents at least one of the plurality of data projection system devices; and the displaying presents an indication of a data protection system topology; and means for responding, utilizing the topology tool, to the user actuation of the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements by at least one of performing a command, displaying an additional GUI element, and displaying information about the at least one of the data protection system devices. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising: a means for positioning the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements representing at least one of the plurality of data protection system devices with respect to another one of the plurality of GUI elements representing another one of the plurality of data protection system devices; and a means for displaying at least one connecting line between the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements and the another one of the plurality of GUI elements. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising: a means for obtaining additional information corresponding to at least one of the plurality of data protection system devices in response to the user actuation of the at least one of the plurality of GUI elements. 