A structural component having a stiffness which can be actively varied to control vibrations, for example in a helicopter rotor, an aircraft wing or tail, or in a robotic manipulator. The component has at least one recess or notch with opposed walls, which walls, in the absence of any intervening member, tend to move relative to each other when the component is stressed. A stiffness control element is situated in the recess or notch, this element comprising electrically or magnetically expandable material capable of being rapidly expanded from a first condition in which the element is out of contact with one of the walls, to an expanded condition in which the element extends across the recess or notch and transmits forces from one of the walls to the other, thus altering the stiffness of the component. The preferred expandable material is a stack of piezoelectric crystals.
Claims We claim: 1. A structural component having a stiffness which can be actively varied to control vibrations, characterised by having at least one recess or notch with opposed walls, which walls, in the absence of any intervening member, tend to move relative to each other when the component is stressed, and having a stiffness control element situated in the recess or notch, this element comprising electrically or magnetically expandable material capable of being rapidly expanded from a first condition in which the element is out of contact with one of said opposed walls, to an expanded condition in which the element extends across the recess or notch from one of said walls to the other and transmits forces from one of the walls to the other, thus altering the stiffness of the component. 2. A structural component according to claim 1, wherein the element is expandable at a rate sufficiently high to allow the stiffness of the component to be varied at a rate of at least 100 Hz. 3. A structural component according to claim 1, wherein the element is expandable at a rate sufficiently high to allow the stiffness of the component to be varied at a rate of at least 1000 Hz. 4. A component according to claim 1, wherein said element contains piezoelectric material, and is connected to electrical means for controlling the stiffness of the component. 5. A component according to claim 1, wherein said element contains electrostrictive material, and is connected to electrical means for controlling the stiffness of the component. 6. A component according to claim 1, wherein said element contains magnetostrictive material, and is connected to magnetic means for controlling the stiffness of the component. 7. A component according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of said stiffness controlling elements are situated in said recess, said elements being individually controlled and expandable to provide several degrees of stiffness for the component. 8. A component according to claim 1, wherein said opposed walls are oriented so as to move parallel to each other when the component is subjected to varying torsional strains, and wherein said element has a first end fixed to a first of said opposed walls of the recess, and has its second end engageable with the second opposed wall of the recess, said second end and said second wall including friction enhancing surfaces so that forces parallel to said walls can be transmitted between said second end and the second opposed wall, whereby said element significantly increases the torsional stiffness of the component when expanded to bring the second end into contact with said second wall. 9. A component according to claim 1, wherein said opposed walls are oriented so as to move parallel to each other when the component is subjected to varying torsional strains, and wherein said element has a first end fixed to a first of said opposed wall of the recess, and has its second end engageable with the second opposed wall of the recess, said second end and said second wall including interengaging teeth so that forces parallel to said walls can be transmitted between said second end and the second opposed wall, whereby said element significantly increases the torsional stiffness of the component when expanded to bring the second end into contact with said second wall. 10. A helicopter rotor incorporating a component according to claim 1. 