An intelligent sheet metal bending system is disclosed, having a cooperative generative planning system. A planning module interacts with several expert modules to develop a bending plan. The planning module utilizes a state-space search algorithm. Computerized methods are provided for selecting a robot gripper and a repo gripper, and for determining the optimal placement of such grippers as they are holding a workpiece being formed by the bending apparatus. Computerized methods are provided for selecting tooling to be used by the bending apparatus, and for determining a tooling stage layout. An operations planning method is provided which allows the bending apparatus to be set up concurrently while time-consuming calculations, such as motion planning, are performed. An additional method or system is provided for positioning tooling stages by using a backgage guide member which guides placement of a tooling stage along the die rail of the bending apparatus. A method is provided for learning motion control offset values, and for eliminating the need for superfluous sensor-based control operations once the motion control offset values are known. The planning system may be used for facilitating functions such as design and assembly system, which may perform designing, costing, scheduling and/or manufacture and assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for generating a plan which comprises a sequence of operations to be performed by a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the bending apparatus having a gripper for gripping a workpiece while performing a bend, said sequence of operations comprising a set of N bends for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: proposing means for proposing, for an mth operation within the sequence of operations, a plurality of proposed operations including a plurality of proposed bends to be performed by said apparatus; subplan means for providing a proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend, said proposed subplan comprising setup and control information for said bending apparatus; estimating means for estimating a cost to be associated with each proposed bend; and generating means for generating a plan including a sequence of bends from a first through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends, the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend, and the estimated cost associated with each proposed bend. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said proposing means comprises means for proposing bends among the complete set of N bends that are still remaining. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein said proposing means comprises means for proposing bends among the complete set of N bends that are still remaining less bends blocked due to constraints. 4. The system according to claim 1, said proposing means comprising means for proposing, for an mth operation, a repositioning of the gripper's hold on the workpiece. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the generated plan further includes at least part of the proposed subplans that accompany the chosen bends. 6. The system according to claim 1, further comprising means for representing the mth operation within the sequence of operations as an mth level of a search tree. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein said proposed subplans comprise final locations on the workpiece at which the gripper will grip the workpiece while performing the bends of the sequence of bends. 8. The system according to claim 1, wherein said proposed subplans comprise ranges of locations on the workpiece at which the gripper can grip the workpiece while performing the bends of the sequence of bends. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein said proposed subplans comprise numbers, each representing a predicted number of repositionings of the gripper needed to complete the sequence of bends. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein said proposed subplans comprise indications that a next bend in the sequence cannot be performed unless the gripper's grip on the workpiece is first repositioned. 11. The system according to claim 1, wherein said proposed subplans comprise locations on the workpiece at which a repositioning gripper will grip the workpiece while performing a repositioning operation between bends of the sequence of bends. 12. The system according to claim 1, wherein said proposed subplans comprise indications of tooling stages to be utilized to perform the bends of the sequence of bends. 13. The system according to claim 1, wherein said proposed subplans comprise locations of tooling stages to be utilized to perform the bends of the sequence of bends. 14. The system according to claim 1, wherein said proposed subplans comprise positions along a tooling stage at which the workpiece will be loaded into the bending apparatus in order to perform the bends of the sequence of bends. 15. The system according to claim 1, wherein said proposed subplans comprise motion plans for maneuvering around tooling stages in performing the beds of the sequence of bends. 16. The system according to claim 1, wherein said proposing means and said generating means collectively comprise a bend sequence planning module, and further wherein said subplan means and said estimating means collectively comprise a plurality of expert modules. 17. The system according to claim 16, wherein said expert modules each comprise means for operating said subplan means and said estimating means when said proposing means proposes a proposed operation for performance as said mth operation within the sequence of operations. 18. The system according to claim 16, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a holding expert module having means for operating said subplan means to provide a proposed holding subplan that includes information regarding a location on the workpiece at which the gripper can grip the workpiece while performing the bends of the bend sequence. 19. The system according to claim 16, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a holding expert module having means for operating said estimating means to estimate a holding cost calculated based upon whether a gripper's hold on the workpiece is to be repositioned before performing a given bend. 20. The system according to claim 16, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a tooling expert module having means for operating said subplan means to provide a proposed tooling subplan that includes information regarding a position along a tooling stage at which the workpiece will be loaded into the bending apparatus in order to perform a given bend. 21. The system according to claim 16, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a tooling expert module having means for operating said estimating means to estimate a cost based upon an amount of time to install, when setting up the bending apparatus, an additional tooling stage needed to perform a given bend. 22. The system according to claim 16, wherein said plurality of expert modules comprise a motion expert module having means for operating said estimating means to estimate a cost based upon a calculated travel time for moving the workpiece from a tooling stage location of a bend to a tooling stage location of a next bend. 23. The system according to claim 16, wherein said bend sequence planning module comprises means for querying each of said expert modules for a subplan and estimated costs, and wherein each of said expert modules comprises means for responding to a query by returning a savelist to said bend sequence planning module, said savelist comprising a list of names of attributes, and values respectively corresponding to the attributes, to be saved by said bend sequence planning module. 24. The system according to claim 1, further comprising prioritizing means for prioritizing proposed bends in accordance with bend heuristics determined based upon the geometry of the workpiece. 25. The system according to claim 24, wherein said generating means generates a plan including a sequence of bends from a first through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the prioritized proposed bends and the propose subplan that accompanies each proposed bend. 26. The system according to claim 1, further comprising prioritizing means for prioritizing proposed bends in accordance with bend heuristics determined based upon the geometry of the workpiece. 27. The system according to claim 26, wherein said prioritizing means comprises means for discounting an estimated cost of a bend having a high priority and increasing an estimated cost for a bend having a low priority. 28. The system according to claim 1, further comprising determining means for determining the time needed for, and the feasibility of producing one or more parts with the bending apparatus based upon the generated plan. 29. The system according to claim 28, further comprising means for performing calculations of the cost of producing a given batch of the parts, based upon the time determined by said determining means. 30. The system according to claim 28, further comprising means for redesigning the part based upon the time and feasibility determinations made by said determining means. 31. The system according to claim 28, further comprising means for scheduling manufacturing with the bending apparatus depending upon the determined amount of time for producing one or more parts. 32. A system for generating a plan which comprises a sequence of operations to be performed by a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the bending apparatus having a gripper for gripping a workpiece while performing a bend, said sequence of operations comprising a set of N bends for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: proposing means for proposing, for an mth operation within the sequence of operations, a plurality of proposed operations including a plurality of proposed bends to be performed by said apparatus; subplan means for providing a proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend; generating means for generating a plan including a sequence of bends from a first bend through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends and the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend; and estimating means for estimating a cost to be associated with each proposed bend, wherein said generating means generates a plan including a sequence of bends from a first through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends, the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend, and the estimated cost associated with each proposed bend, wherein the estimated cost associated with an nth bend in the sequence of N bends comprises a k cost calculated based upon an estimated amount of time it will take the bending apparatus to complete one or more operations of the bend. 33. The system according to claim 32, wherein the estimated cost associated with an nth bend in the sequence of N bends further comprises an h cost calculated based upon an estimated total amount of time it will take the bending apparatus to complete one or more operations of each of the rest of the bends in the bend sequence that follow the nth bend. 34. The system according to claim 32, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise moving the workpiece from a tooling stage location of a preceding bend to a tooling stage location of the given bend. 35. The system according to claim 32, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise installing, when setting up the bending apparatus, an additional tooling stage that will be needed to perform the given bend. 36. The system according to claim 32, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise repositioning of the gripper's hold on the workpiece before performing the given bend. 37. A system for generating a plan which comprises a sequence of operations to be performed by a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the bending apparatus having a gripper for gripping a workpiece while performing a bend, said sequence of operations comprising a set of N bends for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: proposing means for proposing, for an mth operation within the sequence of operations, a plurality of proposed operations including a plurality of proposed bends to be performed by said apparatus; subplan means for providing a proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend; generating means for generating a plan including a sequence of bends from a first bend through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends and the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend; and estimating means for estimating a cost to be associated with each proposed bend, wherein said generating means generates a plan including a sequence of bends from a first through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends, the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend, and the estimated cost associated with each proposed bend, wherein the estimated cost associated with an nth bend in the sequence of N bends comprises an h cost calculated based upon an estimated total amount of time it will take the bending apparatus to complete one or more operations of each of the rest of the bends in the bend sequence that follow the nth bend. 38. The system according to claim 37, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise moving the workpiece from a tooling stage location of a preceding bend to a tooling stage location of the given bend. 39. The system according to claim 37, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise installing, when setting up the bending apparatus, an additional tooling stage that will be needed to perform the given bend. 40. The system according to claim 37, wherein said one or more operations of a given bend comprise repositioning of the gripper's hold on the workpiece before performing the given bend. 41. In a computer having at least one processor and a memory, a method for selecting a gripper for holding a workpiece to be utilized by a bending apparatus for bending unfinished workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, said method comprising: reading information describing the geometry of a library of grippers to be chosen from; forming a set of available grippers excluding grippers that have certain undesigned geometric figures; choosing a gripper from the set of available grippers as a function of the width of the gripper, the length of the gripper, and the knuckle height of the gripper; predicting, for each gripper within the set of available grippers, a repo number equal to an estimated number of times the bending apparatus will need to change the position at which the gripper is holding the workpiece in order to perform a complete sequence of bending operations on the workpiece; determining the smallest predicted repo number; and adjusting the set of available grippers to include the available grippers having a repo number equal to the smallest predicted repo number, before choosing a gripper as a function of the grippers width, length and knuckle height. 42. The method according to claim 41, wherein the gripper comprises a gripper for holding the workpiece while loading and unloading the workpiece into and from a die space of the bending apparatus in order to perform bending operations. 43. The method according to claim 41, wherein the gripper comprises a repo gripper for holding the workpiece while a robot changes its grip on the workpiece. 44. The method according to claim 43, further comprising: determining intermediate shapes of the workpiece; constructing data representations of the respective intermediate shapes of the workpiece when repo operations are to be performed by said bending apparatus; and utilizing said intermediate shapes to determine which grippers are excluded from the set of available grippers, wherein grippers that cannot securely grasp the workpiece, considering all of the constructed intermediate shape representations, are excluded from the set of available grippers. 45. In a computer having at least one processor and a memory, a method of determining a gripper location which is a location on a malleable sheet workpiece at which a gripper can hold a workpiece while a bending apparatus performs an operation on the workpiece, the bending apparatus performing a sequence of operations, including said operation on the workpiece, in accordance with a bending plan, said sequence of operations comprising a sequence of bends from a first bend through an Nth bend, the shape of the workpiece changing to several intermediate shapes as said bending apparatus progresses through said sequence of bends, said method comprising: forming a set of topographic representations by repeatedly generating, along edges of the workpiece, a graphic representation of areas on the workpiece within which the gripper location can be located without hindering performance of a plurality of operations in said sequence of operations, taking into consideration the intermediate shapes of the workpiece when each of said plurality of operations is performed; and determining the intersection of all the graphic representations within said set to thereby determine the areas common to said plurality of operations in said sequence of operations. 46. The method according to claim 45, wherein said operation on the workpiece comprises changing a robot's grip on the workpiece between bends in said sequence of bends. 47. The method according to claim 45, wherein said operation on the workpiece comprises performing a bend within said sequence of bends. 48. In a computer having at least one processor and a memory, a method for selecting tooling to be used in a bending apparatus for bending a workpiece comprising a sheet of malleable material, the tooling including at least a die and a punch, the bending apparatus performing, utilizing the selected tooling, a sequence of operations comprising a sequence of bends from a first bend through an Nth bend, said method comprising: reading information describing the geometry of a library of dies and punches; forming sets of feasible dies and punches by excluding dies and punches that have an insufficient force capacity to bend the workpiece and that are incapable of forming desired bends in the workpiece resulting in desired bend angles and desired inside radii; choosing an appropriate die and appropriate punch that most closely satisfies force, bend angle, and inside radii requirements by excluding punches that will likely collide with the workpiece as determined by failure of a geometric collision test; and generating a proposed subplan to accompany each proposed bend in the sequence of bends, said proposed subplan comprising setup and control information for said bending apparatus. 49. The method according to claim 48, wherein the geometric collision test is performed by modeling a finished 3D workpiece and, for each bend in the sequence of bends, aligning the modeled finished 3D workpiece between a model of each feasible punch and a model of a chosen die. 50. In a computer having at least one processor and a memory, a method for determining a layout of tooling stages along a die rail of a bending apparatus, said bending apparatus being adapted to bend workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, by performing a sequence of operations comprising a sequence of bends from a first bend through an Nth bend, said method comprising: deciding on an arrangement of a plurality of stages along said die rail; calculating lateral limits based upon the amount by which the workpiece extends beyond a side edge of a tooling stage for the bends of said sequence of bends; determining a largest lateral limit for each side of each stage; and spacing adjacently arranged stages to have a gap between adjacent side edges that is greater than or equal to the larger of the determined largest lateral limits of the adjacent side edges. 51. A system for generating a plan and for controlling a bending apparatus, the plan comprising a sequence of operations to be performed by the bending apparatus, the bending apparatus being adapted to bend workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the sequence of operations comprising a sequence of bends, from a first bend through an Nth bend, for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: setup planning means for generating said sequence of bends and a setup subplan, said setup subplan comprising setup and control information for said bending apparatus, said setup and control information including information regarding the manner in which the bending apparatus is to be setup before commencing the first bend in said sequence of bends; forwarding means for forwarding said setup subplan, once generated, to signalling means for signalling commencement of setup operations to be performed in accordance with said setup subplan; and finalizing means for generating detailed subplan information to complete said plan after said setup subplan has been generated, at least part of said detailed subplan information being generated after the commencement of setup operations has been signaled by said signalling means, wherein said setup subplan comprises positions of tooling stages along a die rail of said bending apparatus. 52. A system for generating a plan and for controlling a bending apparatus, the plan comprising a sequence of operations to be performed by the bending apparatus, the bending apparatus being adapted to bend workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the sequence of operations comprising a sequence of bends, from a first bend through an Nth bend, for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: setup planning means for generating said sequence of bends and a setup subplan, said setup subplan comprising setup and control information for said bending apparatus, said setup and control information including information regarding the manner in which the bending apparatus is to be setup before commencing the first bend in said sequence of bends; forwarding means for forwarding said setup subplan, once generated, to signalling means for signalling commencement of setup operations to be performed in accordance with said setup subplan; and finalizing means for generating detailed subplan information to complete said plan after said setup subplan has been generated, at least part of said detailed subplan information being generated after the commencement of setup operations has been signaled by said signalling means, wherein said setup subplan comprises information regarding what type of gripper to use for manipulating the workpiece through the bend sequence. 53. A system for generating a plan and for controlling a bending apparatus, the plan comprising a sequence of operations to be performed by the bending apparatus, the bending apparatus being adapted to bend workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the sequence of operations comprising a sequence of bends, from a first bend through an Nth bend, for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: setup planning means for generating said sequence of bends and a setup subplan, said setup subplan comprising setup and control information for said bending apparatus, said setup and control information including information regarding the manner in which the bending apparatus is to be setup before commencing the first bend in said sequence of bends; forwarding means for forwarding said setup subplan, once generated, to signalling means for signalling commencement of setup operations to be performed in accordance with said setup subplan; and finalizing means for generating detailed subplan information to complete said plan after said setup subplan has been generated, at least part of said detailed subplan information being generated after the commencement of setup operations has been signaled by said signalling means, wherein said setup subplan comprises information regarding what type of repo gripper to use for holding the workpiece while a gripper changes its grasp on the workpiece in between bends of the bend sequence. 54. A system for performing setup operations on a bending apparatus so that the bending apparatus can be utilized to perform bending operations on workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the bending apparatus comprising a die rail, a tool punch holding mechanism, and one or more tooling stages, each tooling stage comprising a die mounted on said die rail and a tool punch held by said punch holding mechanism, said system comprising: means for receiving information regarding a location of each of said one or more tooling stages along said die rail; and control means for controlling a position of a guide member along at least one of said die rail and said tool punch holding mechanism based upon the received information so that at least one of said die and said tool punch can be aligned with reference to said guide member so that the resulting tooling stage will be at a desired location along said die rail. 55. The system according to claim 54, wherein said control means comprises means for positioning said guide member to be at a specified position along said die rail and to be within a certain distance from the die rail, whereby a die of a tooling stage to be aligned can be abutted against said guide member in order to properly position the tooling stage along the die rail. 56. The system according to claim 54, wherein said guide member comprises a backgage finger of a mechanism for performing backgaging when loading a workpiece into the bending apparatus. 57. A system for executing a plan for controlling a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the plan comprising a sequence of operations to be performed by the bending apparatus, said system comprising: sensor-based control means for performing an operation, including moving a workpiece from one position to another, with said bending apparatus utilizing a sensor output to modify the movement of the workpiece; measuring means for measuring an amount by which the movement of the workpiece was modified due to the sensor output; and learned control means for performing said operation, including moving the workpiece from one position to another, without modifying the movement of the workpiece utilizing a sensor output, said learned control means controlling performance of said operation based upon the amount measured by said measuring means. 58. A system for generating a plan which comprises a sequence of operations to be performed by a bending apparatus for bending workpieces comprising sheets of malleable material, the bending apparatus having a gripper for gripping a workpiece while performing a bend, said sequence of operations comprising a set of N bends for forming a finished workpiece from a stock sheet of malleable material, said system comprising: proposing means for proposing, for an mth operation within the sequence of operations, a plurality of proposed operations including a plurality of proposed bends to be performed by said apparatus; subplan means for providing a proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend, said proposed subplan comprising setup and control information for said bending apparatus, said proposed subplan further comprising numbers, each of said numbers representing a predicted number of repositionings of the gripper needed to complete the sequence of bends; and generating means for generating a plan including a sequence of bends from a first bend through an Nth bend, by choosing each bend in the sequence of operations based upon the proposed bends and the proposed subplan that accompanies each proposed bend, said generated plan further comprising at least part of the proposed subplans that accompany the chosen bends. 