An industrial robot has a mounting bracket and a servo motor secured to the mounting bracket for rotation relative thereto about a first axis offset from the vertical by 60.degree.. A sensor plate is mounted on one end of the motor, a position sensor is mounted on the bracket and interacts with the sensor plate to sense the rotational home and overtravel positions of the motor. A tool changer is coaxially mounted on the other end of the motor and has means for mounting a turret for coaxial rotation by the motor. A turret having a plurality of circumferentially-spaced tools is mounted on the tool changer for operation on a second axis offset 60.degree. from the first axis, such that each tool is rotatable about the first axis to a vertical working position. A video camera is mounted on the mounting bracket in a position to view the working position, and a controller, including a vision processor for interpreting the output of the video camera, controls the robot and the motor to position a preselected tool in a location to perform an operation on a workpiece. The tool changer releasably mounts the turret to enable quick mounting and release of a series of turrets each mounting different tools.
Claims We claim: 1. An industrial robot having a turret mounting a plurality of circumferentially-spaced tools for indexing into and out of operative position, characterized by a mounting bracket, a motor secured to the mounting bracket for rotation relative thereto about a first axis offset from the vertical by a predetermined angle characterized by including, a sensor plate mounted on one end of the motor, a position sensor mounted on the bracket which interacts with the sensor plate to sense the motor's home position and overtravel limit rotational positions of the turret assembly, a tool change adaptor coaxially mounted on the other end of the motor and having means for mounting the turret for coaxial rotation by the motor, the turret mounting the tools for operation on a second axis offset at a said predetermined angle from the first axis, such that each tool is rotatable about the first axis to a vertical working position, a video camera mounted on the mounting bracket in a position to view the working position, and a controller, including a vision processor for interpreting the output of the video camera, for controlling the robot and the motor to position a preselected tool in a location to perform an operation on a workpiece. 2. The robot of claim 1, further characterized by the predetermined angle being about 60.degree.. 3. The robot of claim 2, further characterized by the tool change adaptor releasably mounting the turret to enable quick connection to and disconnection from the turret, thereby enabling the robot to quickly utilize a series of turrets each mounting different tools. 