The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for high temperature (at least about 500-800.degree. C.) processing of semiconductor wafers. The systems, methods and apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and to ensure high quality processing for high aspect ratio devices. Performing multiple process steps in the same chamber also increases the control of the process parameters and reduces device damage. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for depositing an insulating layer on a substrate on a heater in a chamber, said process comprising the steps of: heating said heater to a temperature of at least about 500.degree. C. and below a reflow temperature of a phosphosilicate glass (PSG) film to be deposited in said chamber; pressurizing said chamber to a pressure of between about 10 to about 760 torr; and introducing silicon, oxygen, and phosphorus into said chamber to deposit said phosphosilicate glass (PSG) film on said substrate on said heater at said temperature. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said temperature is at least about 600.degree. C. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein said temperature is at least about 650.degree. C. 4. A process for depositing an insulating layer on a substrate on a heater in a chamber, said process comprising the steps of: heating said heater to a temperature of at least about 750.degree. C.; pressurizing said chamber to a pressure of between about 10 to about 760 torr; and introducing silicon, oxygen, and phosphorus into said chamber to deposit and reflow a phosphosilicate glass (PSG) film on said substrate on said heater at said temperature. 5. The process of claim 4 wherein said introducing step is a one-step process whereby deposition and reflow occur substantially simultaneously. 6. The process of claim 4 wherein said introducing step is a multiple-step process whereby deposition and reflow occur at different times in said chamber. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein said PSG film forms a premetal dielectric layer. 8. The process of claim 7 wherein said PSG film is subjected to a densification treatment. 9. The process of claim 1 wherein said reflow temperature is about 750.degree. C. 10. The process of claim 1 wherein said pressure is between about 400 to about 600 torr. 11. The process of claim 10 wherein said pressure is about 450 torr. 12. The process of claim 4 wherein said temperature is at least about 800.degree. C. 13. The process of claim 4 wherein said pressure is between about 400 to about 600 torr. 14. A process for depositing an insulating layer on a substrate on a heater in a chamber, said process comprising the steps of: pressurizing said chamber to a pressure of between about 10 to about 760 torr; during a deposition stage, heating said heater to a deposition temperature of at least about 500.degree. C. in said chamber; and introducing silicon, oxygen, and phosphorus into said chamber to deposit a phosphosilicate glass (PSG) film on said substrate on said heater at said deposition temperature; and during a reflow stage, terminating said introduction of said silicon, oxygen, and phosphorus into said chamber; and heating said heater to a temperature of at least a reflow temperature of the PSG film in said chamber to reflow said PSG film on said substrate on said heater at said temperature. 15. The process of claim 14 wherein said deposition stage and said reflow stage have some overlap in time. 16. The process of claim 14 wherein said deposition temperature is at least about 600.degree. C. 17. The process of claim 14 wherein said deposition temperature is at least about 650.degree. C. 18. The process of claim 14 wherein said reflow temperature is about 750.degree. C. 19. The process of claim 14 wherein said pressure is between about 400 to about 600 torr. 20. The process of claim 19 wherein said pressure is about 450 torr. 