A robot arm mounted apparatus for high speed streaming of high viscosity, two-part adhesive onto a workpiece. The apparatus employs a shortened, temperatured-conditioned mixing tube and a compact, end effector package of dispense metering equipment associated directly with the mixing tube on the end of the robot arm, rather than mounted remotely as in prior art systems. In a preferred form a pressurized cylinder, displacement rods and chambers, dispense metering valves and shortened, temperature-conditioned mixing tube are connected to one another directly in serial fashion on the end of the robot arm. The mixing tube is preferably modified with a removable, damage-resistant nozzle designed especially for streaming.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for streaming a high viscosity, two-part adhesive having first and second components which require mixing prior to being applied to a workpiece, comprising: a unitary dispense package operatively located as a tool-mounted end effector within adhesive-applying distance of a workpiece for application of the two-part adhesive to the workpiece during relative movement between the workpiece and the end effector, the dispense package comprising adhesive flow control means, adhesive metering means, and a temperature-conditioned mixing tube for receiving the first and second components from the flow control means via the metering means to mix the first and second components as they proceed toward a streaming orifice means and to temperature condition the first and second components in the temperature-conditioned mixing tube. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the flow control means comprises displacement rods operatively located to displace the first and second components separately to the metering means. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the flow control means includes an outlet for each of the first and second components, and the metering means comprises dispense valving immediately associated with each outlet to precisely control the flow of the first and second components from the flow control means to the temperature-conditioned mixing tube. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the temperature-conditioned mixing tube comprises a mixing tube removably contained within a temperature-conditioning jacket attached to a metering block containing the dispense valving. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the temperature-conditioning jacket includes one or more passages for receiving a temperature-conditioned fluid. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the streaming orifice means comprises a nozzle removably attached to an outlet end of the mixing tube. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the nozzle includes a nozzle inlet end having a plug portion adapted to be inserted into the outlet end of the mixing tube. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the nozzle inlet end includes a shoulder portion adapted to be held in place against the heating jacket by a removable collar. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the inlet end of the nozzle includes a funnel-shaped inlet narrowing to a throughbore, the nozzle further having a nozzle outlet end with a streaming orifice having a diameter less than the diameter of the throughbore, and a funnel-shaped reducing portion connecting the throughbore to the streaming orifice. 10. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the temperature-conditioning jacket comprises a metal body having a tube-receiving bore adapted to receive the mixing tube in a closely conforming fit such that the wall of the mixing tube is reinforced by the metal body. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the dispense package comprises an end effector mounted on a robot arm. 12. Apparatus for streaming a high viscosity, two-part adhesive having first and second components which require mixing prior to being applied to a workpiece, comprising: serially connected flow control, dispense metering, and temperature-conditioned mixing tube means combined as a unitary end effector dispense package on a robot arm adapted to place the entire dispense package at a dispense point within adhesive-applying distance of a workpiece during relative movement between the workpiece and robot arm. 13. An apparatus for streaming a high viscosity, two-part adhesive having first and second components which require mixing prior to being applied to a workpiece, comprising: a unitary dispense package adapted to be mounted on a tool as an adhesive-applying end effector, the dispense package having refill means for receiving the first and second components of the two-part adhesive from an offboard supply, a flow control portion with displacement rods operated to displace the first and second components from corresponding displacement rod chambers, the displacement rod chambers opening directly to metering valve means which control flow of the first and second components from the displacement rod chambers through injection passages, and a temperature-conditioned mixing tube connected to the dispense package to receive the first and second components from the injection passages in an unmixed state and to mix and temperature condition the first and second components prior to their being dispensed from a streaming orifice at a downstream end of the temperature-conditioned mixing tube. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the displacement rod chambers and the metering valve means are contained in a temperature-conditioned metering block connected to the flow control portion, and the temperature-conditioned mixing tube is contained in a temperature-conditioned jacket attached to the metering block. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the temperature-conditioned metering block and the temperature-conditioned jacket are heated by a common fluid-conducting passage. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the temperature-conditioned metering block includes integral dispense passages between the displacement rod chambers and the metering valve means. 17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the temperature-conditioned mixing tube comprises a temperature-conditioned jacket with a tube-receiving bore for removably receiving the temperature-conditioned mixing tube in a close conforming fit, a removable nozzle in direct fluid connection with an outlet end of the temperature-conditioned mixing tube when the temperature-conditioned mixing tube is in the tube-receiving bore in the temperature-conditioned jacket, and means for retaining the nozzle in fluid connection with the outlet end of the temperature-conditioned mixing tube. 18. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the dispense package comprises an end effector mounted on a robot arm. 19. An apparatus for streaming a high viscosity, two-part adhesive having first and second components which require mixing prior to being applied to a workpiece, comprising: a dispense package capable of being applied as a tool-mounted end effector to a workpiece and adapted to apply two-part adhesive to the workpiece during relative movement between the workpiece and the end effector, the dispense package comprising adhesive flow control means and a mixing device terminating in a streaming orifice, the flow control means adapted to supply the first and second components of the two-part adhesive from a supply source to the mixing device at a desired flow rate, the dispense package further defining a constant temperature flow path for the two-part adhesive from the flow control means to the streaming orifice such that the adhesive remains at substantially the same temperature from the flow control means to the streaming orifice. 20. An apparatus for streaming a high viscosity, two-part adhesive having first and second components which require mixing prior to being applied to a workpiece, comprising: a mixing tube adapted to receive the first and second components and to mix them along its length and deliver them in a fully mixed state to a streaming orifice, and a temperature-conditioning device associated with the mixing tube to temperature-condition the adhesive components as they are being mixed in the tube along substantially the entire length of the tube to the streaming orifice. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the temperature-conditioning device comprises a temperature conditioning jacket surrounding the mixing tube. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the streaming orifice is defined by a nozzle removably connected to the temperature-conditioning jacket. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the nozzle includes a plug portion adapted to be inserted into an outlet end of the mixing tube in the heating jacket. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the plug portion has a funnel-like inlet converging to a cylindrical bore, and the nozzle further includes a streaming orifice connected to the cylindrical bore by a funnel-like reducing portion converging toward the streaming orifice. 25. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the mixing tube comprises plastic, and the nozzle comprises metal. 26. Apparatus for streaming a high viscosity, two-part adhesive having first and second components which require mixing prior to being applied to a workpiece, comprising: a mixing tube adapted to receive the first and second components of the two-part adhesive at a first end and progressively mix the components as they travel from the first end to a second end comprising a streaming orifice, wherein the mixing tube is temperature-conditioned along substantially its entire length from the first end to the second end to maintain the adhesive components at a desired temperature. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising a separate, removable nozzle attached to the mixing tube to define the streaming orifice. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the mixing tube has a constant diameter bore from the first end to the second end, and the nozzle defines a converging bore from the second end of the mixing tube to the streaming orifice. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the mixing tube is made from plastic and the nozzle is made from metal. 30. An apparatus for streaming a high viscosity, two-part adhesive having first and second components which require mixing prior to being applied to a workpiece, comprising: a mixing tube having a first end for receiving the first and second components of the two-part adhesive in a substantially unmixed state, means for mixing the components as they travel from the first end to a second end of the mixing tube, and a separate, removable streaming orifice nozzle mounted on the second end for receiving the mixed components and streaming them from the second end of the mixing tube. 31. An apparatus for streaming a high viscosity, two-part adhesive having first and second components which require mixing prior to being applied to a workpiece, comprising: a dispense package mounted on a tool as an end effector to be operatively located at a dispense point within adhesive-applying distance of a workpiece and adapted to apply two-part adhesive to the workpiece during relative movement between the workpiece and the dispense package, the dispense package comprising a metering block and a nozzle body connected to the metering block, the metering block being adapted to receive the first and second components of the two-part adhesive and supply them at a desired flow rate to the nozzle body, the nozzle body including a mixing tube, a temperature-conditioned jacket surrounding the mixing tube, and a streaming orifice at a dispense end of the mixing tube, wherein the metering block and the nozzle body are temperature-conditioned to define a constant temperature flow path for the first and second components to the streaming orifice. 32. A method for applying a high viscosity, two-part adhesive having first and second components which require mixing prior to being applied to a workpiece, comprising the steps of: injecting the first and second components of the two-part adhesive into a mixing tube at a desired flow rate; temperature conditioning the first and second components as they are mixed in the mixing tube to a point of dispensing, such that the first and second components become a temperature-conditioned two-part adhesive by the time they reach the point of dispensing; and dispensing the temperature-conditioned two-part adhesive directly from the mixing tube through a streaming orifice at the dispensing point to a workpiece at a flow rate and distance from the workpiece such that the two-part material is streamed onto the workpiece. 33. An apparatus for streaming a high viscosity, two-part adhesive having first and second components which require mixing prior to being applied to a workpiece, comprising: an end effector dispense package mounted on a robot arm, the dispense package comprising serially connected flow control means, metering means, and a temperature-conditioned mixing tube for receiving the first and second components from the flow control means via the metering means to mix the first and second components as they proceed toward a streaming orifice means and to temperature-condition the first and second components in the temperature-conditioned mixing tube, the flow control means including an outlet for each of the first and second components, and the metering means comprising dispense valving immediately associated with each outlet to precisely control the flow of the first and second components from the flow control means to the temperature-conditioned mixing tube, wherein the temperature-conditioned mixing tube comprises a shortened mixing tube contained within a temperature-conditioning jacket. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the temperature-conditioning jacket includes one or more passages for receiving a temperature-conditioned fluid. 35. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the streaming orifice means comprises a nozzle removably attached to an outlet end of the mixing tube. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein the nozzle includes a nozzle inlet and having a plug portion adapted to be inserted into the outlet end of the mixing tube. 37. The apparatus of claim 36, wherein the nozzle inlet end includes a shoulder portion adapted to be held in place against the heating jacket by a removable collar. 38. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein a temperature-conditioning jacket comprises a metal body having a tube-receiving bore adapted to receive the mixing tube in a closely conforming fit such that the wall of the mixing tube is reinforced by the metal body. 39. An apparatus for streaming a high viscosity, two-part adhesive having first and second components to require mixing prior to being applied to a workpiece, comprising: an end effector dispense package mounted on a robot arm, the dispense package having refill means for receiving the first and second components of the two-part adhesive from an offboard supply, a flow control portion with displacement rods operated to displace the first and second components from corresponding displacement rod chambers, the displacement rod chambers opening directly to metering valve means which control flow of the first and second components from the displacement rod chambers through injection passages, and a temperature-conditioned mixing tube connected to the dispense package to receive the first and second components from the injection passages in an unmixed state and to mix and temperature-condition the first and second components prior to their being dispensed from a streaming orifice at a downstream end of the temperature-conditioned mixing tube, wherein the displacement rod chambers and the metering valve means is contained in a temperature-conditioned metering block connected to the flow control portion, and the temperature-conditioned mixing tube is contained in a temperature-conditioned jacket attached to the metering block. 40. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the temperature-conditioned metering block and the temperature-conditioned jacket are heated by a common fluid-conducting passage. 41. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the temperature-conditioned metering block includes integral dispense passages between the displacement rod chambers and the metering valve means. 42. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the temperature-conditioned mixing tube comprises a temperature-conditioned jacket with a tube-receiving bore for removably receiving the temperature-conditioned mixing tube in a close conforming fit, a removable nozzle in direct fluid connection with an outlet end of the temperature-conditioned mixing tube when the temperature-conditioned mixing tube is in the tube-receiving bore in the temperature-conditioned jacket, and means for retaining the nozzle and fluid connection with the outlet end of the temperature-conditioning mixing tube. 