The invention relates to a device for performing contouring operations on a three-dimensional member, such as boat hulls, decks and molds. The device comprises a first frame and a second frame wherein the second frame is movably mounted to the first frame. A robotic arm is movably mounted to the second frame whereby a distal end of the arm is positionable in three dimensions with respect to the member. The distal end of the arm is adapted to carry a tool thereon. The structure of the first frame defines a pair of working chambers therein and a passageway so that the arm can travel therebetween. A controller is interconnected to the arm and the first and second frames for controlling the position of the second frame with respect to the first frame, the arm with respect to the second frame, and the distal end of the arm with respect to the arm. The tool on the arm can thereby be positioned to abut the member and perform contouring operations thereon.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A device for performing contouring operations on one or more three-dimensional members comprising: (a) a first frame defining at least two working chambers; (b) a second frame moveably mounted to the first frame; (c) an arm moveably mounted to the second frame for movement between the at least two working chambers, a portion of the arm being positionable in three dimensions in the working chambers and adapted to perform contouring operations in the working chambers (d) a stop member mounted to the first frame, and positioned to selectively bar movement of the arm between adjacent working chambers; and (e) a controller interconnected to the arm and the first and second frames for controlling the position of the second frame with respect to the first frame, the arm with respect to the second frame, and the positionable portion of the arm with respect to the arm. 2. The device of claim 1 and further comprising at least one positioning sensor mounted to the first frame and interconnected to the controller to signal the position of the second frame with respect to the first frame. 3. The device of claim 1 and further comprising at least one positioning sensor mounted to the second frame and interconnected to the controller to signal the position of the arm with respect to the second frame. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein the first frame is suspended in an elevated position. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein the first frame is defined by a forward beam, a rearward beam and a pair of side beams interconnected at their respective, ends to form a rectangular frame. 6. The device of claim 4 wherein the first frame is suspended by a plurality of posts having one end mounted to the first frame and a second end supported on a ground surface. 7. The device of claim 1 wherein the stop member comprises a beam defining adjacent working chambers, said beam having a gap enabling movement of the arm between adjacent working chambers. 8. The device of claim 6 wherein an end of the central beam is offset with respect to the first frame to define the passageway through which the arm can travel between the first and second chambers. 9. The device of claim 1 wherein one of the first and second frames has a rail mounted thereon, the other of the first and second frames has a slide mounted thereon, the rail being slidably received within the slide to mount the second frame to the first frame for slidable movement. 10. The device of claim 9 wherein one of the first and second frames has a rack gear, the other of the first and second frames has a pinion gear powered by a motor, the rack gear and pinion gear being mounted to the first and second frames so that the pinion gear is intermeshed with the rack gear whereby actuation of the motor moves the second frame with respect to the first frame. 11. The device of claim 1 wherein one of the first and second frames has a rack gear, the other of the first and second frames has a pinion gear powered by a motor, the rack gear and pinion gear being mounted to the first and second frames so that the pinion gear is intermeshed with the rack gear whereby actuation of the motor moves the second frame with respect to the first frame. 12. The device of claim 1 wherein one of the second frame and the arm has a rail mounted thereon, the other of the second frame and the arm has a slide mounted thereon, the rail being slidably received within the slide to mount the arm to the second frame for slidable movement. 13. The device of claim 12 wherein one of the second frame and the arm has a rack gear, the other of the second frame and the arm has a pinion gear powered by a motor, the rack gear and pinion gear being mounted to the first and second frames so that the pinion gear is intermeshed with the rack gear whereby actuation of the motor moves the second frame with respect to the first frame. 14. The device of claim 1 wherein one of the second frame and the arm has a rack gear, the other of the second frame and the arm has a pinion gear powered by a motor, the rack gear and pinion gear being mounted to the first and second frames so that the pinion gear is intermeshed with the rack gear whereby actuation of the motor moves the second frame with respect to the first frame. 15. The device of claim 1 wherein the arm comprises: (a) a housing mounted to the second frame for slidable motion with respect thereto; and (b) an arm assembly having a distal end and a proximal end, the proximal end being mounted to the housing and the distal end having a tool mount for selectively receiving a tool. 16. The device of claim 15 wherein the arm assembly comprises a first link, a second link, and a third link interconnected by pivotable joints. 17. The device of claim 16 wherein the arm assembly is rotatably mounted to the housing. 18. The device of claim 1 wherein the arm includes an optical scanning device adapted to detect indicia on a member adjacent the arm. 19. The device of claim 1 wherein the arm includes a stylus tool adapted to send coordinate data to the controller of a three-dimensional object located adjacent the arm. 20. The device of claim 1 and further comprising a tool bin located adjacent the first frame from which a tool can be selected by the arm. 21. The device of claim 20 wherein the tool bin comprises a carousel which removably mounts several tool bits therein. 22. The device of claim 21 wherein the tool bin defines a bit removal area thereon. 23. The device of claim 22 wherein the controller can position one of the arm and the carousel at the bit removal location whereby the arm can remove a tool therefrom. 24. The device of claim 1 and further comprising a vacuum filtration system adapted to collect airborne particles generated by the forming operations adjacent the distal end of the arm. 25. The device of claim 24 wherein the vacuum filtration system comprises: (a) a vacuum source; (b) a conduit having one end fluidly connected to the vacuum source and an opposite end mounted adjacent the distal end of the arm; (c) at least one filter located between the vacuum source and the end of the conduit; whereby actuation of the vacuum source suctions particles located adjacent the end of the conduit and traps them in the at least one filter. 26. The device of claim 25 wherein said at least one filter comprises a first filter and a second filter fluidly interconnected. 27. The device of claim 26 wherein the first filter is a cyclonic drum filter. 28. The device of claim 26 wherein the second filter is a HEPA filter. 29. The device of claim 26 and further comprising a boom assembly supported in an elevated position having an end which mounts a portion of the conduit whereby the boom assembly maintains slack in the conduit. 30. The device of claim 1 and further comprising at least one vacuum carriage located in at least one of said first and second chambers whereby each of said at least one vacuum carriage fixably supports a three-dimensional member. 31. The device of claim 30 wherein the vacuum comprises: (a) a base; and (b) a support member removably mounted to base for supporting the three dimensional object thereon in a fixed position. 32. The device of claim 31 wherein the base has at least two ground-engaging wheels. 33. The device of claim 31 wherein the support member is interconnected to vacuum source whereby the vacuum source draws the three-dimensional member against the support member to prevent the member from moving with respect to the first frame. 34. The device of claim 31 wherein the support member includes at least one post having an axial socket located in a distal end thereof. 35. The device of claim 34 and further comprising a cylinder having an axial piston movable between a retracted position and an extended position whereby in the extended position the piston is received in the axial socket of the support member and fixedly positions the support member with respect to the first frame. 36. The device of claim 1 and further comprising a safety barrier mounted adjacent the perimeter of the first frame. 37. The device of claim 1 and further comprising a safety speaker which emits an audile warning during operation of the device. 38. The device of claim 1 and further comprising a safety light which emits a visible warning during operation of the device. 39. The device of claim 1 and further comprising a light curtain located around the perimeter of the first frame. 40. The device of claim 39 wherein the light curtain comprises: (a) an optical emitter which emits a light signal; and (b) an optical detector adapted to detect the light signal from the optical emitter; whereby when the device is actuated an interruption of the light signal from the optical emitter causes one of the optical emitter and the optical detector to send a signal to the controller to suspend actuation of the device. 41. A cage for supporting a three-dimensional member during contouring operations thereon comprising: (1) a vacuum source; and (2) a support member having a working surface which has at least one conduit thereon which is fluidly interconnected to the vacuum source, wherein the support member also has a retainer operably connected with the working surface for maintaining the working surface in a fixed position during the contourine operations, wherein the retainer includes at least one post having an axial socket located in a distal end thereof; whereby a three-dimensional member can be located adjacent the working surface and actuation of the vacuum source produces a vacuum through the at least one conduit which draws the three-dimensional member against the working surface of the support member to prevent the three-dimensional member from moving during the contouring operations thereon. 42. The carriage of claim 41 and further comprising a cylinder having an axial piston movable between a retracted position and an extended position whereby in the extended position the piston is received in the axial socket of the retainer and fixably retains the support member. 43. A carriage for supporting a three-dimensional member during contouring operations thereon comprising: (1) a vacuum source; and (2) a support member having a working surface which has at least one conduit thereon which is fluidly interconnected to the vacuum source, wherein the support member also has a retainer operably connected with the working surface for maintaining the working surface in a fixed position during the contouring operations, wherein the support member has at least two ground-engaging wheels; whereby a three-dimensional member can be located adjacent the working surface and actuation of the vacuum source produces a vacuum through the at least one conduit which draws the three-dimensional member against the working surface of the support member to prevent the three-dimensional member from moving during the contouring operations thereon. 44. A method of forming contours on a three-dimensional object comprising the steps of: (1) providing a first frame defining at least two working chambers, (2) a second frame movably mounted to the first frames, (3) an arm movably mounted to the second frame for movement between the at least two working chambers, a portion of the arm being positionable in three dimensions in the working chambers and adapted to perform contouring operations in the working chambers, (4) a tool on the positionable portion of the arm, (5) a stop member mounted to the first frame, and positioned to selectively bar movement of the arm between adjacent working chambers; (6) positioning the second frame and the arm so that the arm is in one working chamber and, barred from movement to a second working chamber by the stop member; (7) contacting and containing the object with the tool; (8) with the one working chamber, whereby the second working chamber is simultaneously free of accidental intrusion by the arm. 