A breakaway unit for a tool mount of a robotic positioner, the breakaway unit having a magnetic coupler mechanism and a mechanical coupler mechanism for omnidirectional collision contacts of the tool and/or tool mount, the magnetic coupler mechanism having an adjustably positioned magnetizable disk in one coupler component and a fixed position magnet member in the other coupler component and the mechanical coupler mechanism having an adjustment mechanism for adjusting the force of release in the +Z direction of contact by the tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A breakaway unit for mounting a tool to a robot positioner, the breakaway unit comprising: a magnetic coupler mechanism having a first coupler component with means for attaching the breakaway unit to the robot positioner and a second coupler component with means for connecting the breakaway unit to the tool, wherein the coupler mechanism has a magnet member in one of the two coupler components and a magnetizable member in the other of the two coupler components wherein when the two coupler components are coupled, the magnet member and the magnetizable member are proximately positioned and the magnet member magnetically attracts the magnetizable member, wherein the coupler component having the magnetizable member is magnetically held to the coupler member having the magnet member with a holding force dependent on the distance of the magnet member from the magnetizable member, and, the coupler mechanism has a mechanical means for incrementally adjusting the relative distance between the magnetic member and the magnetizable member for adjusting the holding force. 2. The breakaway unit of claim 1 further including: a mechanical coupler mechanism, the mechanical coupler mechanism having a seating component mounted to the second coupler component, and a breakaway component connectable to the seating component wherein the breakaway component has a mounting means for mounting the tool and the mechanical coupler mechanism comprises the means for connecting the breakaway unit to the tool. 3. The breakaway unit of claim 1 wherein the coupler component having the magnetizable member includes a housing with a recess, the magnetizable member being located in the recess, the adjustment means comprising adjustment screws with first ends projecting from the magnetizable member and contacting the magnetic member when the coupler components are coupled, wherein the magnet member is displaced from the magnetizable member by the adjustment screws. 4. The breakaway unit of claim 3 wherein the housing having the magnetizable member has magnetic retainer means for retaining the magnetizable member deep in the recess, and wherein the adjustment screws have second ends projecting through the housing, wherein displacing the ends of the adjustment screws projecting through the housing toward the housing displaces the magnetizable member toward the magnet member when the coupler components are coupled, thereby magnetically engaging the coupler components. 5. The breakaway unit of claim 1 having trigger means for stopping operation of the robot positioner when the coupler components of the magnetic coupler mechanism separate. 6. The breakaway unit of claim 5 wherein the trigger means comprises an electronic switch mechanism. 7. The breakaway unit of claim 2 wherein the mechanical coupler mechanism has adjustment means for adjusting the force required to separate the breakaway component from the seating component. 8. The breakaway unit of claim 2 wherein the tool has an axis and the breakaway component of the mechanical coupler mechanism is positioned to separate the breakaway component from the seating component in a direction along the axis of the tool during a compressive contact that tends to force the tool into the mounting means. 9. A breakaway unit for mounting a tool to a robot positioner the breakaway unit comprising: a magnetic coupler mechanism having a first coupler component with means for attaching the breakaway unit to the robot positioner and a second coupler component with means for connecting the breakaway unit to the tool, wherein the coupler mechanism has a magnet member in one of the two coupler components, and a magnetizable member in the other of the two coupler components and has means for adjusting the relative distance between the magnetic member and the magnetizable member wherein the coupler component having the magnetizable member includes a housing with a recess, the magnetizable member being located in the recess, the adjustment means comprising adjustment screws with first ends projecting from the magnetizable member and contacting the magnetic member when the coupler components are coupled, wherein the magnet member is displaced from the magnetizable member by the adjustment screws. 10. The breakaway unit of claim 9 wherein the housing having the magnetizable member has magnetic retainer means for retaining the magnetizable member deep in the recess, and wherein the adjustment screws have second ends projecting through the housing, wherein displacing the ends of the adjustment screws projecting through the housing toward the housing displaces the magnetizable member toward the magnet member when the coupler components are coupled, thereby magnetically engaging the coupler components. 11. The breakaway unit of claim 9 having trigger means for stopping operation of the robot positioner when the coupler components of the magnetic coupler mechanism separate. 12. The breakaway unit of claim 11 wherein the trigger means comprises an electronic switch mechanism. 13. A breakaway unit for mounting a tool to a robot positioner the breakaway unit comprising: first and second coupler mechanisms, wherein the first coupler mechanism has a first coupler component with means for attaching the breakaway unit to the robot positioner and a second coupler component with a tool mount and means cooperating with means on the first coupler component for releasably connecting the second coupler component to the first coupler component with decoupling on a predetermined deflection force on the tool or tool mount; and, wherein the second coupler mechanism has a support structure with a mounting bracket displaced from the first coupler mechanism to releasably support the tool mount without interference from the first coupler mechanism and the robot positioner, the mounting bracket having a seating component with at least one pin receiving bushing, wherein the tool mount has a pin bracket with at least one pin insertable in the pin receiving bushing; wherein the pin and bushing have an axis capable of being substantially parallel with an axis of the tool, wherein when the pin of the pin bracket is inserted in the bushing of the seating component, the tool mount of the second coupler mechanism decouples from the support structure when the tool or tool mount contacts an object in a direction along the axis of the tool during a compressive contact that tends to force the tool or tool mount into the support structure. 14. The breakaway unit of claim 13 wherein the second coupler mechanism has means for adjusting the force required to decouple the tool mount from the support structure. 15. The breakaway unit of claim 14 wherein the pin bracket has three spaced pins insertable into three corresponding pin receiving bushings. 