A manufacturing system for individually processing semiconductor wafers through a plurality of processing stations. The system has a plurality of processing stations, a multilevel track system that interfaces with the processing stations, and guided transport vehicles that operate on the track system to move individual wafers in wafer carriers between the stations. The carriers have a storage memory that contains the required process sequence and the capability to remember the completed process steps.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manufacturing system for handling and individually processing wafers through a plurality of processing stations that perform operations on the wafers in accordance with a wafer process sequence, the manufacturing system comprising: a plurality of processing stations, each having a region of a controlled environment, each of said stations being capable of performing at least one processing operation in said region of controlled environment on said wafers; a multilevel track system having a plurality of tracks at different levels, passing in close proximity to said processing stations; a plurality of wafer carriers, each adapted to support and enclose a single wafer; a plurality of transport vehicles adapted to operate independently on said multilevel tracks and carry said wafer carriers between said processing stations; an information storage memory associated with each of said wafer carriers capable of holding an associated wafer process sequence and maintaining a record of processes that have been completed on the associated wafer; a directing means on each of said transport vehicles for directing the transport vehicle to move to a next processing station in accordance with said associated wafer process sequence in said storage memory; each of said processing stations including (1) a transport vehicle buffer disposed off of a main route of the transport vehicles between the processing stations, each transport vehicle buffer having a load zone, an unload zone, and a waiting zone where transport vehicles carrying wafers to be processed at the processing station await removal of wafer carriers thereon by the wafer carrier handling means, wherein the load zone is between the waiting zone and the unload zone, (2) a wafer carrier buffer, (3) a wafer carrier handling means adjusted to transfer said wafer carriers between said transport vehicles and said wafer carrier buffer, and (4) a wafer handling means to move wafers between the wafer carriers and a wafer processing apparatus at each of said processing stations; and a stocker station having a wafer carrier loading area where unprocessed wafers are introduced into the manufacturing system, and a wafer carrier unload area where processed wafers are removed from the manufacturing system. 2. The manufacturing system of claim 1 wherein each track in said multilevel track system is enclosed and a filter means is provided to maintain a clean environment in the enclosed tracks. 3. The manufacturing system of claim 1 wherein each track in said multilevel track system is open. 4. A manufacturing system for handling and individually processing wafers through a plurality of processing stations that perform operations on the wafers in accordance with a wafer process sequence, the manufacturing system comprising: a plurality of processing stations, each having a region of a controlled environment, each of said stations being capable of performing at least one processing operation in said region of controlled environment on said wafers; a multilevel track system having a plurality of tracks at different levels, passing in close proximity to said processing stations, wherein said multilevel track system has an interbay system of multilevel tracks, and a plurality of bay systems of multilevel tracks, said processing stations being accessible from said bay systems of multilevel tracks, said plurality of bay systems being accessible from said interbay system; a plurality of wafer carriers, each adapted to support and enclose a single wafer; a plurality of transport vehicles adapted to operate independently on said multilevel tracks and carry said wafer carriers between said processing stations; a transfer system to transfer said wafer carriers to and from said transport vehicles on said interbay and said bay systems; an information storage memory associated with each of said wafer carriers capable of holding an associated wafer process sequence and maintaining a record of processes that have been completed on the associated wafer; a directing means on each of said transport vehicles for directing the transport vehicle to move to a next processing station in accordance with said associated wafer process sequence in said storage memory; each of said processing stations having (1) a transport vehicle buffer having a load zone and an unload zone, (2) a wafer carrier buffer, (3) a wafer carrier handling means adjusted to transfer said wafer carriers between said transport vehicles and said wafer carrier buffer, and (4) a wafer handling means to move wafers between the wafer carriers and a wafer processing apparatus at each of said processing stations; and a stocker station having a wafer carrier loading area where unprocessed wafers are introduced into the manufacturing system, and a wafer carrier unload area where processed wafers are removed from the manufacturing system. 5. The manufacturing system of claim 4 wherein said transfer system has a multilevel storage means for said wafer carriers at each interbay track system and bay track system, and robotic transfer means to move said wafer carriers to and from said transport vehicles on all track levels of said interbay system and bay systems, and said multilevel storage means. 6. The manufacturing system of claim 5 wherein said stocker station is located adjacent to and is accessible from said interbay system. 7. The manufacturing system of claim 6 wherein said stocker station includes a wafer carrier storage means and a second robotic transfer means to move said wafer carriers to and from said wafer carrier storage means. 8. The manufacturing system of claim 4 wherein said interbay system has four levels of tracks, and said bay system has two levels of tracks. 9. The manufacturing system of claim 1 wherein said wafer carrier handling means at said processing station is a robot capable of removing said wafer carriers from said transport vehicles at all of the track levels of said multilevel track system and move said wafer carriers to said wafer carrier buffer. 10. The manufacturing system of claim 1 wherein said wafer carrier handling means includes a robot adapted to remove said wafer carriers from said transport vehicles on various of the track levels of said multitrack system and deposit said wafer carriers on said wafer carrier buffer. 11. The manufacturing system of claim 1, wherein the transport vehicles are movable on the tracks successively from the waiting zone to the unloading zone and from the loading zone to the loading zone between, and wherein the wafer carrier handling means unloads the wafer carriers from the transport vehicle at the unload zone and loads the wafer carriers onto the transport vehicle at the loading zone. 12. The manufacturing system of claim 1, further comprising, marked along the tracks, bar codes respectively identifying each of the processing stations and intersections of the tracks, each of the bar codes being disposed ahead the respective identified processing station or intersection, wherein the directing means on each transport vehicle includes a bar code reader for reading the bar codes to identify the current location of the transport vehicle, and wherein the directing means directs the movement of the transport vehicle based on the location identified by the bar code reader. 13. The manufacturing system of claim 12, wherein each bar code disposed ahead of an intersection identifies the processing stations along the intersecting track. 