A method for determining if a robot gripper assembly (preferably servo controlled) has acquired a work piece wherein the robot gripper assembly includes at least two opposing fingers comprising the steps of commanding the robot gripper assembly to close the two opposing fingers to a predetermined position to acquire the work piece, the predetermined position being less than or different than the expected work piece dimension; quantifying the movement of the two opposing fingers when the closing step has been completed; comparing the actual position to the predetermined position to determine a position error; and recognizing that a work piece has been acquired by the two opposing fingers if the position error is not zero indicating that the interference of the work piece between the two opposing fingers has prevented the two opposing fingers from achieving the predetermined position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining if a robot gripper assembly has acquired a work piece, the robot gripper assembly including at least two opposing fingers, said method comprising the steps of: (a) commanding the robot gripper assembly to close the at least two opposing fingers to a predetermined position to acquire the work piece, the predetermined position being less than an expected work piece dimension; (b) quantifying an actual position of the at least two opposing fingers when movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed in response to said commanding step; (c) comparing the actual position to the predetermined position to determine a position error; and (d) recognizing that a part has been acquired by the at least two opposing fingers if the position error is not zero. 2. A method as recited in claim 1 further comprising the step of: recognizing that a work piece has not been acquired by the at least two opposing fingers if the position error is zero. 3. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein: the robot gripper assembly is servomotor controlled, said quantifying step comprising the steps of (a) measuring rotation of the servomotor until movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed in response to said commanding step; and (b) using the rotation of the servomotor to determine the actual position of the at least two opposing fingers when movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed in response to said commanding step. 4. A method as recited in claim 3 wherein: said measuring step is performed by counting encoder pulses from an encoder during said closing step until movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed, said encoder connected to a shaft of the servomotor. 5. A method for determining if a robot gripper assembly has acquired a work piece, the robot gripper assembly including at least two opposing fingers, said method comprising the steps of: (a) moving the at least two opposing fingers to a predetermined position to acquire the work piece, the predetermined position being different than an expected work piece dimension, said moving step being performed in response to a command signal sent to the servomotor controlled robot gripper assembly; (b) tracking an actual position of the at least two opposing fingers when movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed in the performance of said closing step using the number of rotations of said tracking step; (d) comparing the actual position to the predetermined position to determine a position error; and (e) recognizing that a work piece has been acquired by the at least two opposing fingers if the position error is not zero. 6. A method as recited in claim 5 wherein: said tracking step comprises (a) measuring rotation of a servomotor driving the at least two opposing fingers until movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed in response to said commanding step; and (b) using the rotation of the servomotor to determine the actual position of the at least two opposing fingers when movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed in response to said commanding step. 7. A method as recited in claim 6 wherein: said measuring step is performed by counting encoder pulses from an encoder during said closing step until movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed, said encoder connected to a shaft of the servomotor. 8. A method for determining if a robot gripper assembly has acquired a work piece and for determining if the work piece is within dimension tolerances, the robot gripper assembly including at least two opposing fingers, said method comprising the steps of: (a) closing the at least two opposing fingers to a predetermined position to acquire the work piece, the predetermined position being less than an expected work piece dimension tolerance range, said closing step being performed in response to a command signal sent to the servomotor controlled robot gripper assembly; (b) tracking motion of the at least two opposing fingers during said closing step until movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed to determine an actual position; (d) determining if the actual position is within the expected work piece dimension tolerance range to determine a position error; and (e) recognizing that a work piece has been acquired by the at least two opposing fingers if the actual position is greater than the predetermined position and recognizing that the work piece is dimensionally acceptable if the actual position is within the expected work piece dimension tolerance range. 9. A method as recited in claim 4 further comprising the step of: recognizing that a work piece has not been acquired by the at least two opposing fingers if the predetermined position is achieved during said closing step. 10. A method as recited in claim 9 further comprising the step of: recognizing that an unacceptable work piece has been acquired by the at least two opposing fingers if the actual position is greater than the predetermined position and the actual position is not within the expected work piece dimension tolerance range. 11. A method as recited in claim 8 wherein: said tracking step comprises (a) measuring rotation of a servomotor driving the at least two opposing fingers until movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed in response to said commanding step; and (b) using the rotation of the servomotor to determine the actual position of the at least two opposing fingers when movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed in response to said commanding step. 12. A method as recited in claim 11 wherein: said measuring step is performed by counting encoder pulses from an encoder during said closing step until movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed, said encoder connected to a shaft of the servomotor. 13. A method for determining if a servo controlled robot gripper assembly has acquired a work piece, the servomotor controlled robot gripper assembly including at least two opposing fingers, said method comprising the steps of: (a) commanding the servomotor controlled robot gripper assembly to close the at least two opposing fingers to a predetermined position to acquire the work piece, the predetermined position being less than an expected work piece dimension; (b) measuring a rotation quantity of the servomotor until movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed in response to said commanding step; (c) using the rotation quantity to determine an actual position of the at least two opposing fingers when movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed in response to said commanding step; (d) comparing the actual position to the predetermined position to determine a position error; and (e) recognizing that a work piece has been acquired by the at least two opposing fingers if the position error is not zero. 14. A method as recited in claim 13 further comprising the step of: recognizing that a work piece has not been acquired by the at least two opposing fingers if the position error is zero. 15. A method as recited in claim 13 wherein: said measuring step is performed counting encoder pulses from an encoder connected to a shaft of the servomotor. 16. A method as recited in claim 13 wherein: said measuring step is performed counting encoder pulses from a hall sensor connected to the servomotor. 17. A method as recited in claim 13 wherein: said measuring step is performed by counting encoder pulses from an encoder during said closing step until movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed, said encoder connected to a shaft of the servomotor. 18. A method for determining if a robot gripper assembly has acquired a work piece, the robot gripper assembly including at least two opposing fingers, said method comprising the steps of: (a) commanding the robot gripper assembly to move the at least two opposing fingers to a predetermined position to acquire the work piece, the predetermined position being different than an expected work piece dimension; (b) measuring an actual position of the at least two opposing fingers when movement of the at least two opposing fingers has been completed in response to said commanding step; (c) comparing the actual position to the predetermined position to determine a position error; and (d) recognizing that a work piece has been acquired by the at least two opposing fingers if the position error is not zero. 