The simultaneous synthesis of diverse organic compounds is performed in stackable modules which are moveable among nesting sites located on work station platforms. The reactor module includes a block adapted to receive an array of tube-like reactor vessels. The vessels are sized to optionally accept porus polyethelyene mircocannisters with radio frequency transmitter tags. Each vessel has a bottom port connected to an outlet tube. A valve block located below the reactor vessels simultaneously controls discharge through the outlet tubes. The valve block includes plates with aligned, relatively moveable sets of rib surfaces which act through Teflon encapsulated silicone O-ring cord sections to simultaneously close rows of outlet tubes. By first utilizing reactor vessels in one set of 48 positions, out of the possible 52 reactor vessel positions in the reactor block, and then utilizing reactor vessels in the other set of 48 positions and shifting the relative position of the collection plate, a single reactor can be employed to discharge into all of the wells of a standard 96 well microtiter collection plate. The apparatus can be used to perform the entire synthesis or only the final cleavage step of a radio frequency tagged synthesis.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus useful for the synthesis of multiple organic compounds, having means to receive an array of individual reactor vessels, each vessel having a port connected to an outlet tube, valve means for the simultaneous regulation of discharge through said outlet tubes, said valve means comprising first and second aligned, relatively moveable surfaces between which said outlet tubes extend and resilient means interposed between one of said surfaces and said outlet tubes, such that relative movement of said surfaces causes force to be applied through said resilient means to close said outlet tubes. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said surfaces comprise plates. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said surfaces comprise ribs on plates. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said resilient means comprises an encapsulated silicone O-ring cord. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein one of said surfaces is shaped to correspond to the exterior shape of said resilient means. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein one of said surfaces has an arcuate shape. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said valve means is located below the reactor vessels. 8. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein one of said plates comprises an opening through which said resilient means can be inserted between said ribs. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising collection means, said collection means comprising an array of collection wells. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said collection means has 2X number of collection wells and said apparatus comprises means to receive X number of reactor vessels in Y number of possible positions, where Y is a number larger than X. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said reactor vessels comprise porus polyethylene microcannisters with radio frequency encodable microchip identifier tags. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising multi-level component alignment means. 13. Valve means for the simultaneous regulation of discharge through outlet tubes connected to the ports of reactor vessels received in apparatus for the manipulation of multiple organic compounds, the valve means comprising first and second aligned, relatively moveable surfaces between which the outlet tubes extend and resilient means interposed between one of said surfaces and the outlet tubes, such that relative movement of said surfaces causes force to be applied through said resilient means to close the outlet tubes. 14. The means of claim 13 wherein said surfaces comprise plates. 15. The means of claim 13 wherein said surfaces comprises ribs on plates. 16. The means of claim 13 wherein said resilient means comprises Teflon encapsulated silicone O-ring cord. 17. The means of claim 13 wherein one of said surfaces is shaped to correspond to the exterior shape of said resilient means. 18. The means of claim 13 wherein one of said surfaces has an arcuate shape. 