Apparatuses and methods are disclosed for determining an implant position for at least one artificial component in a joint and facilitating the implantation thereof. The apparatuses and methods include creating a joint model of a patient's joint into which an artificial component is to be implanted and creating a component model of the artificial component. The joint and artificial component models are used to simulate movement in the patient's joint with the artificial component in a test position. The component model and the joint model are used to calculate a range of motion in the joint for at least one test position based on the simulated motion. An implant position, including angular orientation, in the patient's joint is determined based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion. In a preferred embodiment, the implant position can be identified in the joint model and the joint model aligned with the joint by registering positional data from discrete points on the joint with the joint model. Such registration also allows for tracking of the joint during surgical procedures. A current preferred application of the invention is for determining the implant position and sizing of an acetabular cup and femoral implant for use in total hip replacement surgery.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer system for determining an implant position of at least one artificial component in a patient's joint, comprising: means for creating a joint model of a patient's joint into which an artificial component is to be implanted; means for creating a component model of the artificial component; means for simulating movement of the patient's joint with the artificial component in a test position using the component model and the joint model; means for calculating a range of motion of the joint at the test position based on the simulated movement; and means for determining an implant position for the artificial component based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion. 2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein said means for creating a joint model comprises means for creating a joint model using skeletal geometric data derived from the joint. 3. The computer system of claim 2, wherein said means for creating a joint model comprises means for creating a joint model using tomographic data derived from the joint. 4. The computer system of claim 2, wherein said means for creating a joint model comprises means for creating a joint model using computed tomographic data derived from the joint. 5. The computer system of claim 1, wherein said means for determining comprises means for determining an implant position in the patient's joint based on a predetermined range of motion for a predetermined activity and the calculated range of motion. 6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein said means for simulating comprises means for simulating movement of the artificial component in a test position in the patient's joint using the component model and the joint model. 7. An apparatus for facilitating the implantation of artificial components in joints, comprising: a tracking device for providing positional tracking data representative of the position of a patient's joint and an artificial component; and a computer system comprising, means for creating a joint model of the patient's joint into which the artificial component is to be implanted; means for creating a component model of the artificial component; means for simulating movement of the patient's joint with the artificial component in a test position using the component model and the joint model; means for calculating a range of motion of the joint for said test position based on the simulated movement; means for determining an implant position of the artificial component in the patient's joint based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion; means for identifying the determined implant position in the joint model, and means for aligning the joint model with the patient's joint and the artificial component model with the corresponding artificial component based on said positional tracking data. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said computer system further comprises: means for calculating the position of the artificial component relative to the implant position; and, a display system attached to said computer system to provide a display of the position of the artificial component with respect to the implant position. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said tracking device comprises an optical tracking system. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said optical tracking system comprises at least one camera positioned to track the position of the patient's joint and the artificial component. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said optical tracking system comprises: tracking targets attached to the patient and the artificial component; and, at least one camera positioned to track the position of said tracking targets. 12. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said tracking device is selected from the group consisting of an acoustic tracking system, shape based recognition tracking system, video-based tracking system, mechanical tracking system, electro-magnetic tracking system and radio frequency tracking system. 13. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said means for aligning comprises: means for determining spatial coordinates of discrete points on the joint; and means for calculating a coordinate transformation to align the joint model with the discrete points on the joint. 14. A computer system for determining an implant position of an artificial acetabular cup in a patient's acetabulum and an artificial femoral head and shaft component in the patient's femur to provide for cooperation between the artificial femoral head and the acetabular cup, said computer system comprising: means for creating a pelvic model of a patient's pelvis into which an artificial acetabular cup component is to be implanted; means for creating an acetabular cup model of the artificial acetabular cup; means for creating a femoral model of a patient's femur into which an artificial femoral head and shaft component is to be implanted; means for creating a femoral head and shaft model of the artificial femoral head and shaft component; means for simulating movement of the patient's hip joint with the artificial femoral head cooperating with the acetabular cup in a test position using the femoral head and shaft and acetabular cup models and the pelvic and femoral models; means for calculating a range of motion of the femoral head and shaft component in the acetabular cup for the test position based on the simulated movement; and means for determining an implant position for the artificial acetabular cup and femoral component based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion. 15. A method of determining an implant position for artificial components in a joint, comprising: creating a joint model of a patient's joint into which an artificial component is to be implanted; creating a component model of the artificial component; simulating movement of the patient's joint with the artificial component in a test position using the component model and the joint model; calculating a range of motion of the joint for said test position based on the simulated movement; and determining an implant position for the artificial component based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion. 16. A method of facilitating the implantation of artificial components in joints, comprising: creating a joint model of a patient's joint into which an artificial component is to be implanted; creating a component model of the artificial component; simulating movement of the patient's joint with the artificial component in a test position using the component model and the joint model; calculating a range of motion of the joint for said test position based on the simulated movement; determining an implant position for the artificial component based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion; identifying the implant position in the joint model; aligning the joint model with the patient's joint and the artificial component model with the corresponding artificial component based on positional tracking data representative of the position of the joint and the artificial component; and, tracking the artificial component and the joint to maintain alignment of the joint model with the joint and to determine the artificial component position relative to the implant position in the joint. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said step of aligning further comprises: determining spatial coordinates of selected points on the joint; and calculating a coordinate transformation to align the joint model with the points on the joint. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said step of aligning further comprises providing a stationary marker to provide a frame of reference for said step of determining spatial coordinates. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein said step of tracking further comprises the step of determining the position of surgical instruments relative to the joint. 20. A computerized method of facilitating the implantation of an artificial acetabular cup in an acetabulum of a pelvis, comprising: creating a three dimensional pelvic model based on skeletal geometric data of a pelvis and acetabulum into which an artificial acetabular cup is to be implanted; creating a three dimensional component model of the artificial acetabular cup and a femoral component; simulating movement of the patient's hip joint with the artificial femoral head cooperating with the acetabular cup in a test position using the femoral head and shaft and acetabular cup models and the pelvic and femoral models; calculating a range of motion of the femoral head and shaft component in the acetabular cup for the test position based on the simulated movement; determining an implant position for the artificial acetabular cup and femoral component based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion; identifying the implant position in the pelvic model; aligning the pelvic model with the patient's pelvis and the acetabular cup model with the acetabular cup based on positional tracking data providing the position of the pelvis and the acetabular cup; and, tracking the acetabular cup and the pelvis to maintain alignment of the pelvic model with the pelvis and to determine the acetabular cup position relative to the implant position in the hip. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein: said step of creating further comprises creating a three dimensional femur model of a femur from skeletal data; said step of interfacing further comprises interfacing the femur model with the femoral component model at a femoral implant position; said step of simulating further comprises simulating movement of the artificial femoral component in the acetabular cup at the femoral test position using the artificial component and pelvic models; said step of identifying further comprises identifying the femoral implant position in the femur model; said step of aligning further comprises aligning femoral points on the femur to align the femoral model with the femur; and said step of tracking further comprises tracking the femoral component and the femur to maintain alignment of the femur model with the femur and to determine femoral component position relative to the femoral implant position and the acetabular cup. 22. A computer readable medium containing instructions for determining an implant position for artificial components in a joint, wherein said instructions comprise instructions for: creating a joint model of a patient's joint into which an artificial component is to be implanted; creating a component model of the artificial component; simulating movement of the patient's joint with the artificial component in a test position using the component model and the joint model; calculating a range of motion of the joint for at least one test position based on the simulated movement; and determining an implant position for the artificial component based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion. 23. A computer readable medium containing instructions for facilitating the implantation of an artificial acetabular cup in an acetabulum of a pelvis, wherein said instructions comprise instructions for: creating a joint model of a patient's joint into which an artificial component is to be implanted; creating a component model of the artificial component; simulating movement of the patient's joint with the artificial component in a test position using the component model and the joint model; calculating a range of motion of the joint for at least one test position based on the simulated movement; determining an implant position for the artificial component based on a predetermined range of motion and the calculated range of motion; identifying the implant position in the joint model; aligning the joint model with the patient's joint and the artificial component model with the corresponding artificial component based on positional tracking data representative of the position of the joint and the artificial component; and tracking the artificial component and the joint to maintain alignment of the joint model with the joint and to determine the artificial component position relative to the implant position in the joint. 24. The computer readable medium of claim 23, wherein said step instruction for aligning comprises instructions for: determining spatial coordinates of discrete points on the joint; and calculating a coordinate transformation to align the joint model with the discrete points on the joint. 