A precise automated work system and method is provided. One or more self-navigating robots can perform automated work operations with precision given six degrees of freedom in a undulating, sloping or irregular terrain, such as, a commercial truck garden. A self-propelled robot moves through the garden and performs gardening tasks following a specified course by dead-reckoning and periodically determining its position and orientation by a navigation fix. At least seven navigation beacons are positioned around a perimeter of a garden work area. Each beacon emits electromagnetic radiation across the garden for detection by the self-propelled robot. A panoramic image collector gathers and focuses electromagnetic radiation from each navigation beacon on an electronic camera to form at least seven beam spots. The relative position of the detected beam spots in the focal plane vary depending upon the six degrees of freedom for robot movement in a garden: the robot's three-dimensional position (x,y,z) and the robot's orientation (heading, pitch, and roll). A navigation module determines the position and orientation of the robot within the garden based on the output of the imaging camera. A self-propelled gardening robot performs many varied automated farming tasks from tillage, to planting, to harvesting by controlling the point of impact of a implement carried by a robot with precision, that is, to within an inch on average for any given position coordinate. Commercial feasibility of small truck gardens is improved as automation is comprehensive and accessible to the solitary farmer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated gardening system for performing tasks in a garden comprising: at least seven navigation beacons positioned around a perimeter of said garden, each beacon emitting electromagnetic radiation across said garden; and a robot for moving through the garden and performing gardening tasks; wherein said robot includes: a panoramic image collector which gathers and focuses said electromagnetic radiation from each navigation beacon at a common focal plane to form at least seven beam spots corresponding to the respective navigation beacons, wherein the relative position of said at least seven beam spots in said focal plane varies depending upon the position and the orientation of said robot within the garden; an imaging camera positioned at said focal plane to detect at least seven beam spots and output electrical signals representative thereof; a navigation module for processing said electrical signals from said imaging camera to determine the position and orientation of the robot within the garden; a controller for controlling at least one driver motor and at least one implement, each driver motor propels said robot along a predetermined path and each implement performs a gardening task along said predetermined path; and wherein said controller controls each driver motor to drive said robot along said predetermined path based on said detected position and orientation determined by said navigation module. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein each navigation beacon includes an emitter for emitting electromagnetic radiation, said electromagnetic radiation comprising any one of infrared, visible and UV radiation. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein each navigation beacon includes an emitter; said emitters are distributed at different heights. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising, switching means for flashing each emitter and for synchronizing readout of said imaging camera to obtain a first image of the scene covering background when said emitters are on and a second image when said emitters are off, and a third image representing the difference between the two which contains the images of the emitters but no other images. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said panoramic image collector comprises a panoramic mirror. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said panoramic mirror comprises a conical mirror having an axis parallel to an optical axis of the imaging camera and a 360 degree horizontal field of view around the said robot and an approximately 30 degree field of view covering a range above and below the horizon and including a predetermined height of said navigation beacons. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein said panoramic mirror comprises a conical mirror having a Gothic-shaped reflective surface. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said robot is subject to movement having six degrees of freedom, said orientation determined by said navigation module comprises a heading in the garden, and said position determined by said navigation module comprises a location in the garden with respect to two position coordinates. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said robot is subject to movement having six degrees of freedom, said orientation determined by said navigation module comprises heading, pitch, and roll in the garden, and said position calculated by said navigation module comprises a position in the garden with respect to three position coordinates. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said navigation module periodically determines location and heading of said robot. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein said controller further provides servo-control to each drive motor to correct a location and a heading of said robot along said predetermined path based on detected pitch and roll to maintain the orientation of said implement within a predetermined range. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein said controller further controls each implement to perform tasks at predetermined locations along said predetermined path based on said detected position determined by said navigation module. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the garden comprises a commercial truck garden having a size less than approximately eleven acres. 14. The system of claim 1, comprising at least eight navigation beacons, a work area being determined by at least seven beacons nearest to the robot. 15. The system of claim 1, further comprising a remote control unit for manually controlling said robot. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one implement comprises at least one automated agricultural implement selected from the following group of implements: tiller, sprayer, seed planter, transplanter, cultivator, mulcher, vacuum insect controller, harvester, and prepacker. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein said navigation module determines the position of said implement within the garden with an accuracy averaging approximately one-half inch. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein said navigation module comprises: means for calculating n sets of position coordinates xu(i), yu(i), and zu(i) for each beam spot i; means for determining a beam spot i.sub.RMS, said beam spot i.sub.RMS being determined when a match is made between a set of lights (j) stored during calibration and said set of beam spots (i), and when a sum of the squares of two Euler coefficients c(4) and c(7) is at a minimum; means for calculating yaw, pitch, and roll based on Euler coefficents c(3), c(4), and c(7) determined at the determined beam spot i.sub.RMS ; means for calculating estimated x, y positions Ex, Ey by regression on all n lights based on the following equation: where xp(i), yp(i) are the coordinates of the i-th beam spots and xl(j), yl(j) are the coordinates of light j, j being equal to (i+i.sub.RMS -2) mod n+1; means for testing direction of yaw to determine whether yaw is between two angles .phi..sub.1 and .phi..sub.2 about a heading and adjusting Ex, Ey, pitch, roll, and yaw values when yaw is not between .phi..sub.1 and .phi..sub.2 ; and means for calculating an estimated value E.sub.z based on the following equation: ##EQU3## here xl(i), zl(i) are the coordinates of the i-th beam spots and xp(j), zp(j) are the coordinates of light j, j being equal to (i+i.sub.RMS -2) mod n+1; and means for determining orientation information on the robot including said pitch, roll, and yaw and position information including three position coordinates x,y,z obtained from said Ex, Ey, and Ez values. 19. A method for controlling a robot to perform automated tasks along a path in a work area comprising the steps of: focusing light emitted from at least seven navigation beacons at a common focal plane to form at least seven corresponding beam spots, wherein the relative position of said at least seven beam spots in said focal plane varies depending upon changes in at least one of six degrees of movement of the robot within the work area; detecting positions of said at least seven beam spots on an imaging device and outputting electrical signals representative thereof; and processing said electrical signals to determine location and heading of the robot within the work area. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said processing step includes the steps of: determining a set of Euler coefficients c(1) to c(8) for each beacon light position (xl(j), yl(j), zl(j)) in a set of beacon light positions and each detected beam spot position (xu(i), yu(i), zu(i)) in a set of beam spot positions; and identifying a particular beam spot and corresponding beacon light that causes said particular beam spot. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein said identifying step comprises identifying a matching beam spot irms, said beam spot i.sub.RMS being determined when a match is made between said set of beacon light positions stored during calibration and said set of detected beam spot positions, and when a RMS function equal to the sum of the squares of two Euler coefficients c(4) and c(7) is at a minimum. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising the steps of: calculating yaw, pitch, and roll based on coefficents c(3), c(4), and c(7) determined at the beam spot i.sub.RMS ; calculating estimated x, y positions Ex, Ey by regression on all n lights based on the following equation: where xp(i), yp(i) are the coordinates of the i-th beam spots and xl(j), yl(j) are the coordinates of light j, j being equal to (i+i.sub.RMS -2) mod n+1; testing direction of yaw to determine whether yaw is between two angles .phi..sub.1 and .phi..sub.2 about a heading and adjusting Ex, Ey, pitch, roll, and yaw values when yaw is not between .phi..sub.1 and .phi..sub.2 ; and calculating an estimated value E.sub.z based on the following equation: ##EQU4## where xl(i), zl(i) are the coordinates of the i-th beam spots and xp(j), zp(j) are the coordinates of light j, j being equal to (i+i.sub.RMS -2) mod n+1; and determining orientation information on the robot including said pitch, roll, and yaw and position information including three position coordinates x,y,z obtained from said Ex, Ey, and Ez values. 23. A navigation method for a robot that performs automated tasks along a path in a work area and periodically detects n beam spots from corresponding n navigation beacons positioned around the work area and which emit light, n being an integer greater than six, wherein the relative positions of said n beam spots (i) in a focal plane varies depending upon changes in at least one of six degrees of movement of the robot within the work area; the navigation method comprising: determining a set of Euler coefficients c(1) to c(8) for each beacon light position (xl(j), yl(j), zl(j)) in a set of beacon light positions and for each detected beam spot position (xu(i), yu(i), zu(i)) in a set of beam spot positions; and identifying a particular beam spot and corresponding beacon light that causes said particular beam spot; whereby, the location and heading of the robot in the work area can be determined. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein said identifying step comprises identifying a matching beam spot i.sub.RMS, said beam spot i.sub.RMS being determined when a match is made between said set of beacon light positions stored during calibration and said set of detected beam spot positions, and when a RMS function equal to the sum of the squares of two Euler coefficients c(4) and c(7) is at a minimum. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising the steps of: calculating yaw, pitch, and roll based on coefficents c(3), c(4), and c(7) determined at the beam spot i.sub.RMS ; calculating estimated x, y positions Ex, Ey by regression on all n lights based on the following equation: where xp(i), yp(i) are the coordinates of the i-th beam spots and xl(j), yl(j) are the coordinates of light j, j being equal to (i+i.sub.RMS -2) mod n+1; testing direction of yaw to determine whether yaw is between two angles .phi..sub.1 and .phi..sub.2 about a heading and adjusting Ex, Ey, pitch, roll, and yaw values when yaw is not between .phi..sub.1 and .phi..sub.2 ; and calculating an estimated value E.sub.z based on the following equation: ##EQU5## where xl(i), zl(i) are the coordinates of the i-th beam spots and xp(j), zp(j) are the coordinates of light j, j being equal to (i+i.sub.RMS -2) mod n+1; and determining orientation information on the robot including said pitch, roll, and yaw and position information including three position coordinates x,y,z obtained from said Ex, Ey, and Ez values. 