Methods and apparatus for "Intelligent" control of production processes such as machining, casting, heat treating and welding are disclosed. The key enabler of such control is electro-optical or other suitable sensors, generally non contact, capable of rapidly and accurately acquiring data from parts and tools used to produce them in a production "in-process" environment. Systems are disclosed to control not only the instant operation, but those processes connected therewith, both upstream and downstream. Data bases are generated and knowledge bases are used. Application of the invention can improve quality and productivity, and allow the production of parts which have unusual or individual material characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method to optimize the use of new assembly tools or new assembly processes, comprising the steps of: (a) assembling at least two parts using an existing process in an assembly apparatus to form an assembly; (b) measuring at least one parameter of one of said parts or said assembly using at least one electrooptical sensor which is part of the assembly apparatus; (c) recording said at least one measured parameter of one of said parts or said assembly in a database; (d) introducing a predetermined, new assembly tool or other predetermined assembly process change; (e) measuring at least one parameter of a second part or assembly; (f) recording said at least one measured parameter of a second part or assembly in a database; (g) determining from said recorded measured parameters at least one change to make in said assembly apparatus or subsequent parts to optimize the use of said assembly apparatus or to optimize said assembly process; and (h) making said at least one change. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said determining step comprises the step of comparing the measured parameter with information in a data base. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the method is fully automated. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said measuring steps (b) and (e) include measuring at least two parameters of one of said parts, and said recording steps (c) and (f) include recording said at least two measured parameters from steps (b) and (e), respectively. 5. A control system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the control means changes the position of part locators. 6. A control system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the control means changes the shape of the part locator at a surface of a part being located. 7. A control system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the working parameter is a parameter of a welding apparatus. 8. A control system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the working parameter is a parameter of a clamping device. 9. A control system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the non-contact sensing means is an electrooptical means. 10. A method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of repeating steps (a)-(b) until a desired level of assembly process improvement is obtained. 11. Method of creating an assembly database by learning properties of parts to be assembled, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a means for recording a data base, (b) providing an assembly apparatus equipped with one or more positioning devices and a plurality of electrooptical sensors for sensing part characteristics, and at least one of positioning device characteristics and assembly apparatus characteristics, (c) repetitively assembling parts using said assembly apparatus; (d) determining with said sensors the characteristics of said assembly apparatus, positioning device, assembly, and/or part with a first set of assembly apparatus and positioning device parameters, and (e) recording same in said data base. 12. A method as claimed in claim 11 further comprising the steps of: (f) changing a parameter of said assembly apparatus, or of a positioning device in said assembly apparatus, and (g) repeating the process until the database has stored sufficient data for the knowledge desired. 13. A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein said positioning devices comprise fixed part location means. 14. Method of creating a data base by learning of properties of parts desired to be worked in an assembly tool, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a means for recording a data base, (b) providing a working assembly tool with a plurality of electrooptical sensors of part characteristics and assembly tool characteristics, (c) repetitively assembling parts with said assembly tool, (d) determining with said sensors characteristics of said assembly tool and part with a first set of assembly tool parameters, and recording same in said data base means, (e) changing a parameter of said assembly tool, and (f) repeating the process until the data base has stored sufficient data for the knowledge desired. 15. Apparatus for assembling a variety of complex 3-dimensional objects including car bodies, or subassemblies thereof, comprising: a base: a plurality of movable pallets positionable in a known location relative to said base and having fixture locators for positioning some or all of the parts of at least one 3-dimensional object on said pallets; means to reconfigure the fixture locators of at least one of said pallets in 3-dimensions to accommodate at least two different 3-dimensional objects; electrooptical sensing means for sensing part characteristics located in a fixed position relative to said base; and means to join said parts of said object. 16. Apparatus according to claim 15 comprising further means to programably position at least one of said parts of said object by moving said fixture locators in 3-dimensions to position said parts on said movable pallets. 17. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said means to programmably position at least one of said parts includes an electrooptical sensing means for guiding the programmable positioning operation. 18. Apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said means to reconfigure at least one of said pallets includes an optical sensing means for guiding the reconfiguration of at least one of said pallets. 19. Apparatus according to claim 15 further comprising a data base of different objects. 20. A control system for at least one production assembly tool comprising: non-contact sensing means which form a part of the assembly tool for sensing part characteristics, a knowledge base containing information concerning part characteristics, at least some of which information having been obtained from operation of said non-contact sensing means to sense part characteristics of a plurality of previous parts; means to compare sensed data with information in said knowledge base; and control means for changing a working parameter, a part assembled in said tool or an assembly tool for a subsequent part assembly as a result of said comparison. 21. A system according to claim 20 wherein said control means includes means for rejecting parts determined to be unsuitable for further production or assembly. 22. A system according to claim 20 wherein said assembly tools are fixed assembly tools. 23. A control system as claimed in claim 20 wherein the knowledge base further comprises other part or process data which is not obtained from the electrooptical sensors. 24. A control system as claimed in claim 20 wherein the knowledge base further comprises data obtained from other assembly tools. 25. A control system as claimed in claim 20 wherein the knowledge base further comprises data obtained from a feeder process for feeding at least one part to the assembly process. 26. A control system as claimed in claim 20 which further comprises a plurality of part location sensors. 27. A control system as claimed in claim 20 wherein said knowledge base is employed to change a part dimension. 28. A control system as claimed in claim 20 wherein said knowledge base is employed to change a part material. 29. A control system as claimed in claim 20 wherein said knowledge base is employed to change a part location in said assembly tool. 30. A control system as claimed in claim 20 wherein said assembly tool is an assembly tool which assembles sheet metal components of car bodies. 31. A control system as claimed in claim 30 wherein said assembly tool receives at least one part from a feeder process step of metal stamping. 32. A control system as claimed in claim 20 wherein the control means changes the position of part locators. 33. A control system as claimed in claim 20 wherein the control means changes the shape of the part locator at a surface of a part being located. 34. A control system as claimed in claim 20 wherein the working parameter is a parameter of a welding apparatus. 35. A control system as claimed in claim 20 wherein the working parameter is a parameter of a clamping device. 36. A control system as claimed in claim 20 wherein the non-contact sensing means is an electrooptical means. 37. Apparatus for producing a sheet metal assembly comprising: a base; a plurality of movable pallets, positionable in a known location relative to said base; tool means operated responsive to a condition of said assembly process for positioning of parts to be assembled on said movable pallets; electrooptical sensor means located in a fixed position relative to said base in said tool means for determining the position of at least one specific feature of at least one of said parts by detecting the range to the surface of the metal; means for storing data concerning said feature position; and means for analyzing said feature position and determining a condition of said assembly process. 38. Apparatus according to claim 37 wherein said tool means comprise fixed assembly tools. 39. An assembly apparatus which comprises at least one assembly tool for assembling at least two parts to a finished assembly, an electrooptical sensor means for sensing data from at least one of said assembly tool, said parts or said finished assembly, data recording means to record data from the sensor means, comparison means for comparing data previously obtained from parts, assemblies or the assembly tool to data from the instant part assembly or assembly tool, and determination means for determining from the data comparison changes to be made in the assembly apparatus or parts. 40. A method to control an assembly process which employs at least one assembly tool for assembling parts, said method comprising the steps of determining a part location at at least one point in said assembly process using at least one sensor, providing at least one additional sensor in one or more additional stations in the assembly process for said parts or in a feeder process which feeds parts to said assembly process for determining a part location using said at least one additional sensor, analyzing data from said at least two sensors located at said at least two different assembly stations in said assembly process or said feeder process, and determining from said analysis of data from at least two sensors located at different stations in said assembly or feeder process a change in said assembly process or parts. 41. A method as claimed in claim 40 wherein at least one sensor determines the location of a part in the assembly tool. 42. A method as claimed in claim 41 wherein said sensor for determining the part location in said tool is an electrooptical sensor. 43. A method as claimed in claim 41 wherein said assembly tool comprises a plurality of sensors for sensing the location of parts in said assembly tool. 44. A method as claimed in claim 43 wherein said assembly tool further comprises additional sensors for sensing other variables of the assembly process. 45. A method as claimed in claim 40 wherein said assembly process is a process of assembling sheet metal components of car bodies. 46. A method as claimed in claim 45 wherein said assembly process receives at least one part from a feeder process which employs metal stamping. 47. A method as claimed in claim 46 wherein said assembly tool comprises a plurality of sensors for determining the location of a part in said assembly tool. 48. A method as claimed in claim 40 wherein at least one of said parts is a sheet metal part. 49. A method as claimed in claim 40 wherein at least one of said sensors is an electrooptical sensor. 50. A method as claimed in claim 40 wherein at least one of said sensors is a non-contact sensor. 51. A control system for at least one production assembly tool comprising: non-contact sensing means which form a part of the assembly tool for sensing at least one tool variable; a knowledge base containing information concerning the at least one tool variable, at least some of which information having been obtained from operation of said non-contact sensing means to sense tool variables; means to compare sensed data with information in said knowledge base; and control means for changing a working parameter, a part assembled in said tool or an assembly tool for a subsequent part assembly as a result of said comparison. 52. An assembly apparatus for assembling at least two parts to form an assembly, wherein at least one of said parts is a deformable part, comprising: (a) means for determining at least one location or dimension of the deformable part prior to deformation; (b) means for deforming the deformable part; (c) means for determining at least one location or dimension of said deformable part after deformation, (d) means for comparing the determined location or dimension from steps (a) and (c); and (e) means for controlling said assembly process based on information obtained from said comparison means. 53. An apparatus for creating an assembly database of properties of parts to be assembled, comprising: (a) means for recording a database, and (b) an assembly apparatus equipped with one or more positioning devices and a plurality of electrooptical sensors for sensing part characteristics and at least one of positioning device characteristics and assembly apparatus characteristics. 54. A method for assembling a variety of complex three-dimensional objects including car bodies, or subassemblies thereof, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a plurality of movable pallets positionable in a known location and having fixture locators for positioning some or all of the parts of at least one three-dimensional object on said pallet; (b) reconfiguring the fixture locators of at least one of said pallets in three-dimensions to accommodate at least two different three-dimensional objects; (c) sensing part characteristics using electrooptical sensing means located in a fixed position relative to said assembly apparatus; and (d) joining said three-dimensional parts of said object. 55. A method for controlling at least one production assembly tool comprising the steps of: (a) sensing part characteristics using a sensor forming a part of the assembly tool from a plurality of parts sequentially assembled in said assembly tool; (b) providing a knowledge base containing information concerning the part characteristics wherein at least some of the information in said knowledge base is obtained from step (a); (c) comparing sensed data with information in said knowledge base; and (d) changing an assembly tool parameter, a part assembled in said tool or an assembly tool for a subsequent part assembly as a result of said comparison. 56. A method for assembling at least two parts to a finished assembly comprising the steps of: (a) sensing data from at least one of said assembly tool, said parts or said finished assembly using a sensor forming a part of the assembly tool; (b) recording said sensed data; (c) comparing data previously obtained from parts, assemblies or the assembly tool to data from the instant part, assembly or assembly tool, and (d) determining from the data comparison changes to be made in the assembly apparatus or parts. 57. A method for controlling at least one assembly tool comprising the steps of: (a) sensing at least one tool variable with non-contact sensing means which form a part of the assembly tool; (b) providing a knowledge base containing information concerning the at least one tool variable, at least some of which information having been obtained from operation of said non-contacting sensing means to sense tool variables; and (c) comparing sensed data with information in said knowledge base. 