A flexible sheet to which manufacturing processes are to be applied is tensioned within a carrying fixture having tacky surfaces to which the flexible sheet is fastened. One version of the fixture includes an "L"-shaped attachment surface on a frame member and two tensioning members deflected toward the frame member in mutually perpendicular directions. When the flexible sheet has been fastened to the carrying fixture, the tensioning members are allowed to return toward their undeflected positions while applying tensioning forces to the flexible sheet. Another version of the fixture includes "L"-shaped attachment surfaces on both a frame member and a tensioning member. A loading station includes a stack of unprocessed flexible sheets, a fixture for deflecting tensioning member(s) within the carrying fixture, and a robot arm moving a transport fixture capable of carrying a flexible sheet and a carrying fixture. An unloading station includes a stack to processed flexible sheets, a fixture at which processed flexible sheets are separated from the carrying fixtures, and a similar robot arm with a similar transport fixture. A lower conveyor carries loaded fixtures from the loading station to the unloading station. An upper conveyor carries empty fixtures from the unloading station to the loading station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transporting a plurality of flexible sheets through a manufacturing process, wherein said method comprises the steps of: a) removing a carrying fixture for holding a flexible sheet within said plurality thereof from a first conveyor system, to which said carrying fixture is removably attached by means of an attachment member thereof, with said carrying fixture being removed at a first location of said first conveyor system; b) adhering a flexible sheet within said plurality thereof to an attachment surface of said carrying fixture; c) placing said carrying fixture, with said flexible sheet adhered thereto, on a second conveyor system, to which said carrying fixture is removably attached by said attachment member thereof; d) moving said carrying fixture, with said flexible sheet adhered thereto, into a station where said manufacturing process is performed on said flexible sheet; e) removing said carrying fixture, with said flexible sheet adhered thereto, from said second conveyor system; f) removing said flexible sheet from said carrying fixture; and g) returning said carrying fixture by means of said first conveyor system to said first location thereof. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said step b) includes the steps of: moving a first tensioning member of said carrying fixture from an undeflected position to a deflected position, in which energy is stored for tensioning said flexible sheet; pressing said flexible sheet against said attachment surface while said tensioning member is held in said deflected position, with said flexible sheet being adhered to said attachment surface by means of a tacky coating extending on said attachment surface; and releasing said first tensioning member to return toward said undeflected position, whereby a portion said energy stored for tensioning applies a tensioning force to said flexible member. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said attachment surface includes a flat first attachment surface extending along a frame member of said carrying fixture, and a flat second attachment surface extending along said tensioning member of said carrying fixture, with said first and second attachment surfaces being aligned in a common plane, and said first tensioning member is moved in directions parallel to said common plane. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said first and second attachment surfaces are each "L" shaped, extending around the periphery of a flexible sheet placed thereon, and said first tensioning member is moved along a diagonal extending from a corner of said first attachment surface and a corner of said second tensioning member. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein said step of moving a first tensioning member is preceded by adhering said flexible sheet to a vacuum plenum wall of a transport fixture, and said step of pressing said flexible sheet against said attachment surface occurs as said vacuum plenum wall is pressed against said attachment surface with said tensioning member extending therebetween. 6. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising, between steps a) and b), the steps of: placing said carrying fixture on a loading fixture with said attachment surface facing upward; adhering said flexible sheet to a vacuum plenum wall; and moving said vacuum plenum so that said flexible sheet is moved into place above said loading transport fixture, with said step b) including movement of said vacuum plenum to press said flexible sheet onto said attachment surface. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said vacuum plenum is formed as a portion of a transport fixture, with said transport fixture additionally including fixture engaging means for releasably holding said carrying fixture, with said vacuum plenum extending adjacent a central portion of said fixture engaging means; and said transport fixture is moved among various positions be a robot arm in response to a program operating in a computing system. 8. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising, between steps a) and b), the steps of: placing said carrying fixture on a loading fixture with said attachment surface facing upward; adhering said flexible sheet to a vacuum plenum wall; and moving said vacuum plenum so that said flexible sheet is moved into place above said loading transport fixture, with said step b) including movement of said vacuum plenum to press said flexible sheet onto said attachment surface. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said flexible sheet and said carrying fixture are moved between said first and second conveyor systems by means of a transport fixture attached to a distal end of a robot arm, with said carrying fixture being carried within fixture carrying means forming a portion of said transport fixture, and with said flexible sheet being adhered to a vacuum plenum wall within said transport fixture, adjacent a central portion of said fixture carrying means, and said step a) is preceded by the step of adhering said flexible sheet to said vacuum plenum wall. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said carrying fixture is held within said fixture carrying means to move between an extended position, in which a gap is provided between said flexible sheet attached to said vacuum plenum wall, and a retracted position, in which said flexible sheet attached to said vacuum plenum wall is pressed against said attachment surface, and wherein said step b) includes the steps of: moving said transport fixture from said first conveyor system to a loading fixture with said carrying fixture in said extended position; and moving said carrying fixture into said retracted position by moving said transport fixture into contact with said loading fixture. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said step b) additionally includes the steps of: moving a first tensioning member of said carrying fixture from an undeflected position to a deflected position, in which energy is stored for tensioning said flexible sheet, before moving said carrying fixture into said retracted position; moving said carrying fixture into said extended position by moving said transport fixture away from said loading fixture, after moving said carrying fixture into said retracted position; and releasing said first tensioning member to return toward said undeflected position, whereby a portion said energy stored for tensioning applies a tensioning force to said flexible member. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said steps a, b, and c occur within a loading station, and said steps e and f occur within an unloading station, with said loading and unloading stations at opposite sides of a location wherein said manufacturing processes occur. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein, within said loading station, said flexible sheet and said carrying fixture are moved between said first and second conveyor systems by means of a first transport fixture attached to a distal end of a first robot arm, with said carrying fixture being carried within first fixture carrying means forming a portion of said first transport fixture, and with said flexible sheet being adhered to a first vacuum plenum wall within said transport fixture, adjacent a central portion of said first fixture carrying means, and within said unloading station, said flexible sheet and said carrying fixture are moved between said second and first conveyor systems by means of a second transport fixture attached to a distal end of a second robot arm, with said carrying fixture being carried within second fixture carrying means forming a portion of said second transport fixture, and with said flexible sheet being adhered to a second vacuum plenum wall within said transport fixture, adjacent a central portion of said second carrying means. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said step f) further comprises the steps of: moving said carrying fixture, with said flexible sheet adhered thereto, to an unloading fixture; moving a wall of a vacuum plenum into contact with said flexible sheet; and moving said wall of a vacuum plenum, with said flexible sheet attached thereto, away from said carrying fixture, with said carrying fixture remaining on said unloading fixture. 15. The method of claim 1, comprising additionally: a first reversing step rotating said carrying fixture with said flexible sheet attached thereto through a 180-degree angle, so that a direction faced by said flexible sheet is reversed; and a second reversing step rotating said carrying fixture after removal of said flexible sheet therefrom through a 180-degree angle, so that a direction faced by said attachment surface is reversed. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said first reversing step occurs between said step e) and said step f), and said second reversing step occurs between said step f) and said step g). 