The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for high temperature (at least about 500-800.degree. C.) processing of semiconductor wafers. The systems, methods and apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and to ensure high quality processing for high aspect ratio devices. Performing multiple process steps in the same chamber also increases the control of the process parameters and reduces device damage. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for stabilizing plasma generation in an applicator tube coupled to a processing chamber, said processing chamber for containing a substrate, said method comprising steps of: introducing a first gas into said applicator tube; applying microwaves at a first power level to said applicator tube to produce a first plasma in said applicator tube from said first gas in said applicator tube; adding a second gas into said applicator tube to produce a second plasma in said applicator tube from said first gas and said second gas in said applicator tube; and increasing said first power level to a second power level. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said second gas is a reactive gas and said first gas is an inert gas. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said reactive gas comprises NF.sub.3. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein said second plasma provides for cleaning of residues from surfaces in said processing chamber coupled to said applicator tube. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein said increasing step is performed substantially simultaneously with said adding step. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said inert gas comprises N.sub.2. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said applicator tube is comprised of ceramic. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said applicator tube is comprised of Al.sub.2 O.sub.3. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said applicator tube has a diameter between about 3-4 inches. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said first power level is at an intermediate point between zero and said second power level. 11. The method of claim 2 wherein said increasing step includes a continuous ramping of said first power level to said second power level. 12. The method of claim 2 wherein said increasing step includes a series of discrete steps from said first power level to said second power level. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said first power level is between about 200-400 Watts. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said second power level is between about 500-2500 Watts. 15. The method of claim 2 wherein said first power level is about 300 Watts and said second power level is about 2100 Watts. 16. The method of claim 2 wherein said power levels is adjusted by a controller. 17. The method of claim 2 wherein said inert gas comprising N.sub.2 is introduced at a flow rate between about 100-400 sccm and wherein said reactive gas comprising NF.sub.3 is introduced at a flow rate between about 600-1100 sccm. 18. The method of claim 2 further comprising steps of: stopping introduction of said first gas into said applicator tube to produce a third plasma from said second gas in said applicator tube. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said third plasma provides for cleaning of residues from surfaces in said processing chamber coupled to said applicator tube. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said applicator tube is mounted near a bottom of said processing chamber. 