The need for a more-readily usable interface for programmable devices is widely recognized. The present invention relates to programmable sequencing devices, or, more particularly, the remote controls for consumer electronic devices. The present invention provides an enhanced interface for facilitating human input of a desired control sequence in a programmable device by employing specialized visual feedback. The present invention also relates to a new interface and method of interfacing with a programmable device, which is usable as an interface for a programmable video cassette recorder.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of programming a device, comprising the steps of: providing an input for user commands and feedback; storing information relating to the user commands and feedback in a memory; providing a data input for external information; predicting a subsequent user command based on the stored information relating to user commands and feedback, a status of the device, and external information from the data input; presenting the predicted user command to the user; accepting feedback from the user relating to the predicted subsequent user command; modifying the predicted subsequent user command based on at least the feedback; and executing the modified predicted user command. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of identifying a user and storing an user identifier with said stored information relating to the user commands; said predicting step predicting a subsequent user command based on the stored information relating to user identifier, commands and feedback, a status of the device, and external information from the data input. 3. An acoustic or image processing system, receiving an acoustic or image data stream, comprising: a user input; a memory, storing information relating to acoustic or image data and said user input; a processor for comparing information of said acoustic or image data stream with said information in said memory, producing an output; an acoustic or image processor, selectively processing at least a portion of the data stream based on said output. 4. An acoustic or image processing system, receiving an acoustic or image data stream, comprising: a user input, defining an acoustic or image content related abstract symbolic user preference; a memory, storing information relating to acoustic or image data and said user input; a processor for comparing information of said acoustic or image data stream with said information in said memory, said processor classifying said acoustic or image information stream and comparing said classification with said information in said memory, producing an output based on said comparison; an acoustic or image processor, selectively processing at least a portion of the data stream based on said output, one of said processor for comparing information and said acoustic or image processor for selectively processing being responsive to said acoustic or image content related abstract symbolic user preference. 5. The processing system according to claim 3, wherein said data stream comprises video, and said processor comprises a video recorder. 6. The processing system according to claim 3, wherein said processor for comparing information comprises a semiconductor device selected from the group consisting of an artificial neural network processor, a digital signal processor and an Affine transform processor. 7. The processing system according to claim 3, wherein said memory comprises optical elements. 8. The processing system according to claim 3, wherein said input comprises a graphic user interface. 9. The processing system according to claim 3, wherein said input comprises an adaptive presentation of predicted user actions. 10. The processing system according to claim 4, further comprising means for adaptively formulating at least one predicted user action for presentation to the user, based on information stored in said memory. 11. The processing system according to claim 3, further comprising a user biometric input; said processor comparing information of said acoustic or image data stream with said information in said memory, and said user biometric input. 12. The processing system according to claim 3, further comprising a plurality of user biometric inputs for receiving biometric data relating to a plurality of users. 13. The processing system according to claim 3, wherein said system receives a plurality of acoustic or image data streams, said selective processing comprising selecting one of said data streams. 14. The system according to claim 4, wherein said processor for comparing information is responsive to said acoustic or image content related abstract symbolic user preference. 15. The system according to claim 4, wherein said acoustic or image processor for selectively processing is responsive to said acoustic or image content related abstract symbolic user preference. 16. The system according to claim 4, wherein said user input comprises an identification selected from one or more of the group consisting of a performer, a group of performers, and an entertainment show. 17. The processing system according to claim 3, wherein said information of said acoustic or image data stream for comparison by said processor is provided with said acoustic or image data stream. 18. The processing system according to claim 17, wherein said information is transmitted in an out-of-band signal. 19. The processing system according to claim 4, further comprising: a user input processing system for determining a viewer preference based on said user input; a program material processing system for characterizing the program material based on its content; said processor for comparing comprising a correlator for correlating said characterized content of the program material with said determined viewer preference to produce a correlation index; and said acoustic or image processor selectively processing said portion of the data stream based on said correlation index. 20. The system according to claim 19, wherein said program material is encrypted, further comprising: a decryption system for decrypting the program material if it is selected to produce unencrypted program material and optionally an associated decryption event; a memory for storing data relating to the occurrence of said decryption event; and a central database for storing data relating to the occurrence of said decryption event in association with data relating to the viewer. 21. The system according to claim 19, wherein: said user input processing system monitors a pattern of user activity and predicts a viewer preference; said program material processing system comprises: a processor for preprocessing the program material to produce a reduced data flow information signal substantially retaining information relating to said abstract information content of the program material and selectively eliminating data not relating to said abstract information content of the program material and for characterizing said information signal based on said abstract information content; and a comparing system for determining if said correlation index is indicative of a probable high correlation between said characterization of said information signal and said viewer preference and causing said stored program material to be processed by said processing means based on said determination. 22. The system according to claim 19, wherein said processor comprises an image program material storage and retrieval system. 23. The system according to claim 19, further comprising a memory for storing a characterization of the program material; an input for receiving a feedback signal from the viewer indicating a degree of agreement with said correlation index determination, wherein said feedback signal and said stored characterization are used by said viewer preference predicting means to predict a new viewer preference. 