A robotic end effector for loading and unloading a magnetic information storage circular disk on a grinder or polisher carrier surface includes an effector block, an annular vacuum cup, including vacuum apertures, attached to and extending from the block and a vacuum source for attaching the cup to the disk. The cup surrounds and abuts against a periphery of a central aperture of the disk. A bore in the block conveys pressurized air through the cup axial interior, through the disk central aperture to overcome surface tension (stiction) between the carrier surface or platen of the grinder or polisher and the disk underside during unloading. A disk-carrying effector is aligned by including a lens surrounded by a ring of light-emitting diodes directed to fiducial holes on the carrier surface providing for a comparative reflection of light from the diodes by dark holes and a light colored carrier surface. The lens is protected from impingement of water droplets and grinding debris by an air flow within the ring, past the lens and through a an apertured cap in the interior of the ring.
Claims We claim: 1. An end effector for loading and unloading a magnetic information storage circular planar disk having a central aperture, onto and from a carrier surface, the carrier surface forming a processing station for the disk, said effector comprising: an effector block; an annular vacuum cup, including vacuum apertures, attached to a lower end of said block and being sized and shaped to surround, encircle and to to be in an abutting contact with a peripheral top surface of the disk central aperture; a vacuum source in communication with said vacuum apertures; wherein imposition of vacuum from said vacuum source to said apertures vacuum holds the disk on said vacuum cup; and wherein said annular vacuum cup comprises a pair of spaced cylindrical depending walls of equal height with a vacuum chamber therebetween, said vacuum apertures being in flow communication with said chamber. 2. The effector of claim 1 wherein said block is a cylindrical block including a central axial vertical through-bore in said block. 3. The effector of claim 2 wherein said block includes a vacuum inlet aperture in a cylindrical side wall of said block and a vacuum distribution passageway in said block extending from the inlet aperture in flow connection to said vacuum apertures. 4. The effector of claim 2 wherein said through-bore includes a lower counterbore having a diameter smaller than the diameter of the disk central aperture and smaller than an inner diameter of the annular vacuum cup. 5. The effector of claim 2 further comprising a pressurized air source connected to said through-bore, such that imposition of air from the pressurized air source flows through said through-bore, through the disk central aperture and radially outward under an underside surface of the disk for overcoming surface stiction between the disk underside surface and the carrier surface when unloading the disk from the carrier surface. 6. The effector of claim 5 in combination with a carrier surface and a disc-processing station wherein the carrier surface is a bottom platen of a grinder or a polisher of the disc-processing station. 7. The effector of claim 1 further comprising an effector base, said base mounting a plurality of the effectors such that the plurality of effectors simultaneously load and unload a matching plurality of disks on and from the carrier surface; and a robot arm mounting said effector base, said arm being movable laterally and vertically to place the plurality of disks simultaneously on the carrier surface. 8. The effector of claim 7 further comprising a plurality of hold-down fingers on said base and depending from said base for holding said carrier surface down when unloading the disks. 9. The effector of claim 1 further comprising a sub-system for aligning a disk loaded on an effector with respect to the carrier surface, said sub-system comprising an effector base, a first camera and a second camera fixed at set locations on said base for determining an X and Y axis position of the effector, each of said cameras including a lens surrounded by a series of light emitting diodes; wherein said carrier surface is a disk holder; and fixed fiducial holes in said disk holder such that comparative reflection of light from said series of diodes through said holes and from said carrier surface accurately positions said effector with respect to said carrier surface. 10. The effector of claim 9 wherein a color light emission from said diodes is reflected differentially from a first reflective surface on the disk holder and a second reflective surface of a bottom surface of the fiducial holes. 11. The effector of claim 10 wherein said bottom surface is a top surface of a bottom platen of a grinder or polisher mounting the carrier surface. 12. The effector of claim 1 in combination with a carrier surface and a disc-processing station and wherein the processing station is a disk-grinding station or a disc-polishing station. 13. An end effector for loading and unloading a magnetic information storage circular disk having a central aperture, onto and from a carrier surface, the carrier surface forming a processing station for the disk, said effector comprising: an effector block; an annular vacuum cup, including vacuum apertures, attached to a lower end of said block and being sized to surround and to abut a peripheral top surface of the disk central apertures; a vacuum source in communication with said vacuum aperture; and wherein imposition of vacuum from said vacuum source to said apertures vacuum holds the disk on said vacuum cup; further comprising a sub-system for aligning a disk loaded on the effector with respect to the carrier surface, said sub-system comprising an effector base, a first camera and a second camera fixed at set locations on said base for determining an X and Y axis position of the effector, each of said cameras including a lens surrounded by a series of light emitting diodes; wherein said carrier surface is a disk holder; and fixed fiducial holes in said disk holder such that comparative reflection of light from said series of diodes through said holes and from said carrier surface accurately positions said effector with respect to said carrier surface; and further including a cylindrical housing extension extending around said diodes and each of said camera lenses, each said extension including a transparent cap spaced from the lens, said cap having a cap aperture, and a pressurized air inlet in said extension such that pressurized air conveyed through said inlet, through a space between the lens and cap and outwardly through said cap aperture prevents imposition of water droplets and debris from the processing station, onto a respective lens. 14. A lens-containing camera and camera housing for a grinding and polishing environment comprising: a cylindrical annular ring light extending around the camera lens; a cap extending transversely across an interior of said ring light and spaced from the lens, said cap having a cap aperture for passing an image to the lens; and a pressurized air inlet in said ring light such that pressurized air is conveyed through said inlet, through a space between the lens and the cap and outwardly through the cap aperture to prevent imposition of debris on the lens from a grinding or polishing operation. 15. A robotic end effector head for loading and unloading a magnetic information storage circular disk on a carrier surface comprising: an effector block; an annular vacuum cap, including at least one vacuum aperture, attached to and extending from said block, said cup being sized to surround and abut against a peripheral surface of a central aperture of the disk; a vacuum source for vacuum attaching the disk to the vacuum cup; and a bore in said block extending to said vacuum cup for conveying pressurized air through an axial interior of the vacuum cup and through the disk central aperture to overcome surface stiction between the carrier surface and an underside of a disk loaded on the carrier surface, when the disk is being unloaded from the carrier surface. 16. The effector head of claim 15 wherein the carrier surface is a disk holder. 17. The effector head of claim 15 wherein said annular vacuum cup comprises a pair of spaced cylindrical depending walls of equal height with a vacuum chamber therebetween, said walls being compressible against the disk upon imposition of a vacuum. 18. A system for aligning a magnetic information storage disk-carrying effector during loading and unloading of a disk onto and off a carrier surface forming a processing station, comprising: an effector base mounting at least one effector; a first camera and a second camera mounted on said base for determining an X and Y position of the effector relative to the carrier surface, each of said cameras including a lens surrounded by a series of light emitting diodes; and fixed fiducial holes on said carrier surface such that comparative reflection of light from said series of diodes by reflection from a bottom of said holes and from said carrier surface accurately positions said effector and an attached disk with respect to the carrier surface. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein the carrier surface is a disk holder. 20. The system of claim 18 wherein a color light emission from said diodes is reflected differentially from a color of the carrier surface and a different color reflected from the bottom surface of the fiducial holes. 21. A system for aligning a magnetic information storage disk-carrying effector during loading and unloading of a disk onto and off a carrier surface forming a processing station, comprising: an effector base mounting at least one effector; a first camera and a second camera mounted on said base for determining an X and Y position of the effector relative to the carrier surface, each of said cameras including a lens surrounded by a series of light emitting diodes; fixed fiducial holes on said carrier surface such that comparative reflection of light from said series of diodes by reflection from a bottom of said holes and from said carrier surface accurately positions said effector and an attached disk with respect to the carrier surface; and further including a cylindrical ring light surrounding each of said camera lenses, said ring light including a cap spaced from the lens, said cap having a cap aperture, and a pressurized air inlet in said ring light such that pressurized air conveyed through said inlet, through a space between the lens and cap and through said cap aperture prevents imposition of water droplets and debris from the processing station, onto the lens. 22. A method of loading and unloading a magnetic information storage disk having a central aperture to a carrier surface on which the disk is to be processed comprising: a) providing a robotic effector having a bottom annular vacuum cup; b) moving the effector toward a disk such that the effector vacuum cup is positioned to abut a peripheral top surface of the disk surrounding the disk central aperture; c) applying a vacuum to the vacuum cup to effectively hold the disk; d) moving the effector and the held disk down vertically to position the disk on the carrier surface; e) removing the effector from the disk; f) subjecting a top surface of the disk to a processing step; g) upon completion of the processing step, repeating steps b) and c); h) then passing pressurized air through the effector, past an interior of the vacuum cup and under the underside of the disk to overcome surface stiction between the disk and the carrier surface; and robotically raising the effector and the vacuum-attached disk from the carrier surface. 23. The method of claim 22 further comprising: providing an effector base and at least two cameras positioned on the base and spaced from the effector, each camera including a lens and a ring of light emitting diodes surrounding each lens; providing an apertured cap within the ring and spaced from each lens; flowing pressurized air into a space between the lens and the cap and outletting the pressurized air out of an aperture in the cap to prevent water droplets and debris from the processing step from impinging on the lens; and controlling the position of the base by moving the effector base with respect to at least one fiducial hole on the carrier surface offset from a desired position of the disk on the carrier surface. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said controlling step comprises moving the effector base laterally and vertically in response to a sensing of a differential reflection of light from said diodes from the carrier surface and a bottom surface of the at least one fiducial hole. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the carrier surface is one color and the bottom surface of the fiducial hole is a different color. 26. A method of loading and unloading a magnetic information storage disk having a top surface, an underside surface and a central aperture, onto and from a carrier surface on which the disk is to be processed comprising: a) providing a robotic effector having a bottom vacuum cup; b) moving the effector toward a disk such that the vacuum cup is positioned to abut a peripheral first portion of the top surface of the disk surrounding the disk central aperture; c) applying a vacuum to the vacuum cup to effectively hold the disk; d) moving the effector and the held disk down vertically to position the disk on the carrier surface; e) removing the effector from the disk; f) subjecting a second portion of the top surface of the disk to a processing step; g) upon completion of the processing step, repeating steps b) and c); h) passing pressurized air through the effector, past an interior of the vacuum cup and under the underside of the disk to overcome surface stiction between the disk underside and the carrier surface; and robotically raising the effector and the vacuum-attached disk from the carrier surface. 