This invention presents an automatic calibration system and method for calibration of a substrate temperature sensor in a thermal processing equipment, such as a rapid thermal processing system. The calibration system includes a temperature-sensitive probe associated with the substrate temperature sensor to calibrate the substrate temperature sensor and an actuator to position the temperature-sensitive probe relative to the substrate during a calibration cycle. The actuator and temperature-sensitive probe of the automatic calibration system can be incorporated into the thermal processing equipment in order to maintain the thermal processing equipment cleanliness and integrity during a calibration cycle, and to allow rapid automated calibration. In the preferred embodiment of this invention, the temperature-sensitive probe and its actuator are implemented in the gas showerhead assembly of a rapid thermal processing system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic calibration method for in-situ calibration of at least one substrate temperature sensor in a microelectronics manufacturing equipment for processing a substrate, comprising: extending at least one in-situ temperature-sensitive probe onto the substrate located within a process chamber of said manufacturing equipment while maintaining the process ambient integrity of the process chamber; ramping the substrate temperature between a first temperature and a second temperature at a sufficiently slow rate; collecting a set of substrate temperature measurement data from said substrate temperature sensor and said temperature-sensitive probe in real time using an automated data acquisition system; extracting a set of calibration data for said substrate temperature sensor; and retracting and at least one temperature-sensitive probe away from said substrate upon conclusion of a calibration cycle; and calibrating any further substrate temperature measurement data obtained with said substrate temperature sensor using said calibration data. 2. The automatic calibration method of claim 1 wherein said substrate temperature ramping rate is optimized according to the response times of said substrate temperature sensor and said temperature-sensitive probe. 3. The automatic calibration method of claim 1 wherein said substrate temperature ramping comprises a controlled substrate temperature ramp-up cycle with a first ramp rate ranging from approximately 1.degree. C. per second to approximately 50.degree. C. per second. 4. The automatic calibration method of claim 3 wherein said substrate temperature ramping further comprises a controlled substrate temperature ramp-down cycle with a second ramp rate ranging from approximately 1.degree. C. per second to approximately 50.degree. C. per second. 5. The automatic calibration method of claim 4 wherein said first ramp rate for said substrate temperature ramp-up cycle and said second ramp rate for said ramp-down cycle are chosen to be sufficiently small such that the calibration data obtained from the temperature ramp-up cycle are consistent with the calibration data obtained from the temperature ramp-down cycle. 6. The automatic calibration of claim 1 wherein said substrate temperature ramping further comprises a closed-loop substrate temperature ramping using a substrate temperature controller employing the real-time substrate temperature measurement data from said temperature-sensitive probe for a closed-loop control function. 7. The automatic calibration method of claim 1 wherein said manufacturing equipment further comprises a single-wafer rapid thermal processing equipment. 8. The automatic calibration method of claim 1 wherein said extending and said retracting further comprise positioning said at least one temperature-sensitive probe using real-time closed-loop control of an electromechanical actuator. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said retracting said at least one temperature-sensitive probe step further comprises the step of retracting said temperature-sensitive probe into a protective probe housing. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said extending said at least one temperature-sensitive probe step further comprises the step of extending said temperature-sensitive probe to contact said substrate while said substrate remains non-rotating. 