This invention provides methods by which biologically derived DNA sequences in a mixed sample or in an arrayed single sequence clone can be determined and classified without sequencing. The methods make use of information on the presence of carefully chosen target subsequences, typically of length from 4 to 8 base pairs, and preferably the length between target subsequences in a sample DNA sequence together with DNA sequence databases containing lists of sequences likely to be present in the sample to determine a sample sequence. The preferred method uses restriction endonucleases to recognize target subsequences and cut the sample sequence. Then carefully chosen recognition moieties are ligated to the cut fragments, the fragments amplified, and the experimental observation made. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is the preferred method of amplification. Several alternative embodiments are described which capable of increased discrimination and which use TypeIIS restriction endonucleases, various capture moieties, or samples of specially synthesized cDNA. Another embodiment of the invention uses information on the presence or absence of carefully chosen target subsequences in a single sequence clone together with DNA sequence databases to determine the clone sequence. Computer implemented methods are provided to analyze the experimental results and to determine the sample sequences in question and to carefully choose target subsequences in order that experiments yield a maximum amount of information.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus programmed for analyzing signals produced from one or more samples comprising a plurality of nucleic acids, said apparatus comprising one or more computer systems programmed for: (a) inputting one or more of said signals, each said input signal being produced from a nucleic acid in said samples and comprising a representation of (i) the length between occurrences of target nucleotide subsequences in said nucleic acid of said samples, said target nucleotide subsequences comprising predetermined nucleotide sequences recognized by recognition means, and (ii) the identities of said target nucleotide subsequences in said nucleic acid, or the identities of sets of target nucleotide subsequences which have members including said target nucleotide subsequences in said nucleic acid; (b) searching a nucleotide sequence stored in a nucleotide sequence database to determine both (i) if said target nucleotide subsequences occur in said nucleotide sequence, and (ii) the lengths in nucleotides between any such occurrences, said nucleotide sequence database comprising a plurality of known nucleotide sequences that may be present in said samples; and (c) predicting that a nucleic acid having a nucleotide sequence stored in said nucleotide sequence database produces one of said input signals if said nucleotide sequence is determined by said searching to have both (i) the same length between occurrences of target nucleotide subsequences as is represented by said one of said input signals, and (ii) the same target nucleotide subsequences as are represented by said one of said input signals, or target nucleotide subsequences that are members of the sets of target nucleotide subsequences as are represented by said one of said input signals. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said searching searches for said target nucleotide subsequences in said nucleotide sequences stored in said nucleotide sequence database by performing a string comparison of the nucleotides in said target nucleotide subsequences with the nucleotides in said nucleotide sequences stored in said database. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said searching determines a pattern of predicted signals by a method comprising searching nucleotide sequences in said nucleotide sequence database both for occurrences of said target nucleotide subsequences and for the length in nucleotides between such occurrences and storing in said pattern said determined occurrences and said determined lengths, and wherein said predicting predicts by a method comprising comparing said one or more input signals and said predicted signals in said pattern of predicted signals, a predicted signal in said pattern of predicted signals being predicted to produce an input signal when the predicted signal from said pattern has both (i) the same length between occurrences of target nucleotide subsequences as is represented by said input signal, and (ii) the same target nucleotide subsequences as are represented by said input signal, or target nucleotide subsequences that are members of the sets of target nucleotide subsequences as are represented by said input signal. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said samples of nucleic acids comprise cDNA of a cell or tissue type, and said database comprises DNA sequences that are likely to be expressed by said cell or tissue type. 5. A computer readable memory on which are recorded programs that direct the apparatus of claim 1 to function. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further programmed for performing said searching, said predicting, and said outputting for a plurality of nucleotide sequences in said nucleotide sequence database. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said one or more computer systems are a plurality of computer systems interconnected by communication facilities. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said one or more computer systems is a single computer system. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said one or more computer systems are further programmed for controlling and/or monitoring the production of said signals from said sample. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising one or more instrument interfaces for controlling instruments for producing said input signals. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further programmed for outputting indications of those nucleotide sequences that are predicted to produce said input signals. 12. An apparatus programmed with the means for analyzing signals produced from one or more samples comprising a plurality of nucleic acids, comprising one or more computer systems programmed for: (a) selecting target nucleotide subsequences or sets of target nucleotide subsequences, wherein said target nucleotide subsequences comprise predetermined subsequences recognized by recognition means; (b) inputting one or more signals, each said input signal being produced from a nucleic acid in said samples and comprising a representation of (i) the length between occurrences of said subsequences in said nucleic acid of said samples, and (ii) the identities of said target nucleotide subsequences in said nucleic acid, or the identities of said sets of target nucleotide subsequences in said nucleic acid; (c) predicting nucleotide sequences stored in a nucleotide sequence database that can produce said input signals, wherein said predicting is by a method comprising searching said nucleotide sequences for occurrences of said target nucleotide subsequences and for the length between occurrences of said target subsequences, wherein a nucleotide sequence from said database is predicted to produce a particular input signal when said nucleotide sequence has occurrences of the same target nucleotide subsequence and the same length between occurrences of target nucleotide subsequences as are represented by the input signal, and wherein said nucleotide sequence database comprises a plurality of known nucleotide sequences that may be present in said samples; (d) outputting indications of said input signals and of said predicted nucleotide sequences stored in said database; and (e) controlling said selecting to select target nucleotide subsequences or sets of target nucleotide sequences, controlling said inputting to input said produced signals, controlling said predicting to predict nucleotide sequences in said database that can produce said input signals, and controlling said outputting to output indications of said input signals and said sequences in said database that are predicted to produce said input signals, each said controlling being performed in a manner responsive to user requests. 13. The apparatus of 12 wherein said samples comprise cDNA prepared from one or more tissue specimens, wherein said apparatus further comprises one or more storage devices for storing indications of the origin of said one or more tissue specimens and information concerning said one or more tissue specimens, and wherein said indications can be displayed upon user request. 14. The apparatus of 13 wherein the indications and information concerning said tissue specimen comprises histological information. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising: (a) one or more instrument interfaces for controlling instruments for producing said input signals; and (b) one or more control systems operatively coupled to said one or more instrument interfaces and to said one or more programmed computer systems for controlling the operation of said instruments. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the one or more instruments are capable of automatic operation and comprise, a robot, thermal cycler, and automated electrophoresis device operatively connected for producing data from which said input signals are derived. 17. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said one or more programmed computer systems is a single computer system. 18. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said one or more programmed computer systems comprise a plurality of computer systems interconnected by communication facilities. 19. A computer readable memory on which are recorded programs that direct the apparatus of claim 12 to function. 20. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising one or more storage devices for storing said input signals. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising one or more storage devices for storing said nucleotide sequences predicted to produce said stored input signals. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 further programmed for retrieving and outputting said stored input signals or said stored nucleotide sequences in a manner responsive to user requests. 23. The apparatus of claim 1 or 12 wherein said predetermined nucleotide subsequences comprise recognition sequences of restriction endonucleases. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said target nucleotide subsequences comprise additional subsequences adjacent to said recognition sequences of restriction endonucleases. 25. The apparatus of claim 1 or 12 wherein said sample comprises cDNA from mRNA, and wherein said target nucleotide subsequences comprise a subsequence representing the 3' poly(A) tail of said mRNA. 26. The apparatus of claim 1 or 12 wherein said sample comprises cDNA from mRNA, and wherein said target nucleotide subsequences comprise a subsequence representing the 5' cap of said mRNA. 27. The apparatus of claim 11 or 12 further programmed for outputting results from two or more samples together. 28. The apparatus of claim 1 or 12 further programmed for performing statistical analysis of results from two or more samples. 29. An apparatus programmed for selecting target nucleotide subsequences comprising one or more computer systems programmed for: (a) choosing target nucleotide subsequences or sets of target nucleotide subsequences, wherein criteria for said choosing are determined according to an optimization method; (b) determining a pattern of signals that are predicted to be produced by said chosen target nucleotide subsequences or said chosen sets of target nucleotide subsequences, said determining being done by a method comprising searching nucleotide sequences stored in a nucleotide sequence database both for occurrences of said chosen target nucleotide subsequences or occurrences of target nucleotide subsequences that are members of said chosen sets of target nucleotide subsequences and for the length in nucleotides between such occurrences and storing said determined occurrences and said determined lengths in said pattern, wherein said database comprises a plurality of known nucleotide sequences, and wherein said signals comprise (i) the length between said occurrences of said chosen target nucleotide subsequences in a nucleotide sequence in said nucleotide sequence database, and (ii) the identities of said chosen target nucleotide subsequences that occur in said sequence in said database, or the identities of target nucleotide subsequences that are members of said chosen sets of target nucleotide subsequences that occur in said nucleotide sequence in said nucleotide sequence database; (c) ascertaining an amount of information in said determined pattern of predicted signals, said amount being indicated by the numerical value of an information measure, said information measure being computed from said determined pattern of predicted signals; (d) controlling according to said optimization method the repetitive performance of said choosing, said determining, and said ascertaining in order to obtain a plurality of said values of said information measure; and (e) selecting those target nucleotide subsequences or sets of target nucleotide subsequences that maximize the amount of information in said pattern of predicted signals as indicated by said values of said information measure. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein a predetermined one or more of the nucleotide sequences in said database are of interest, and wherein said ascertaining ascertains a value of an information measure by counting the number of such nucleotide sequences of interest which generate in said determined pattern of predicted signals at least one signal that is not generated by any other nucleotide sequence in said database. 31. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said one or more of the sequences of interest comprise substantially all the nucleotide sequences in said database. 32. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said optimization method comprises exhaustive search, wherein said choosing chooses all combinations of target nucleotide subsequences of length less than approximately 10 nucleotides, and wherein said controlling obtains a value of said information measure for each said combination. 33. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said optimization method comprises simulated annealing, wherein said choosing randomly alters one or more target nucleotide subsequences, and wherein said controlling obtains a value of said information measure according to a determined probability depending on values of said information measure. 34. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein said determined probability is an exponential function of the negative of a decrease in the information measure divided by a simulated-temperature. 35. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said nucleotide sequence database comprises a majority of known DNA sequences that are likely to be expressed in one or more cell types. 36. A computer readable memory on which are recorded programs that direct the apparatus of claim 29 to function. 37. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said choosing is by a method comprising choosing said target nucleotide subsequences to be recognition sequences of restriction endonucleases. 38. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said ascertaining ascertains a value of an information measure by minimizing the average number of nucleotide sequences that are predicted to produce each signal. 