An endoscope holder includes a dual-axis pivot assembly mountable to a frame. A telescoping arm assembly is attached at one end to the dual-axis pivot assembly and at the other end to a pivoting endoscope grip. An inner arm section is rotatable relative to an outer arm section. The holder provides pivoting of an endoscope about an incision point on the endoscope shaft spaced from the grip. Manually controlled pressurized locks secure the holder configuration, and thereby the endoscope position.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An instrument support apparatus for supporting an instrument having a shaft extending along a shaft axis relative to a patient positioned adjacent to an external frame comprising: a base fixedly mountable onto an external frame; a grip defining a support axis and mountable to an instrument for supporting the instrument with the shaft axis extending along the support axis; a first pivot assembly mounted relative to the base providing pivoting about first and second orthogonal axes; an arm assembly having a longitudinal axis and having a first end mounted relative to the first pivot assembly and a second end movable along and about the longitudinal axis; a second pivot assembly mounting the grip to the second end of the arm assembly, the grip being pivotable relative to the second end of the arm assembly about a grip axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the arm and perpendicular to the support axis; whereby the grip is pivotable about a point on the support axis spaced from the grip. 2. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising: a first lock assembly remotely actuatable for locking the first pivot assembly, and thereby preventing movement of the grip about the first and second axes; and a second lock assembly, also remotely actuatable, for locking the arm assembly, and thereby preventing movement of the grip along and about the longitudinal axis of the arm assembly; whereby, when the first and second lock assemblies are actuated, the grip is immovable about the first and second axes, and is immovable about and along the longitudinal axis of the arm. 3. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 2 further comprising: a manually operable lock actuating controller coupled to the first and second lock assemblies for controlling actuation of the first and second lock assemblies concurrently. 4. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the first and second lock assemblies are actuated by pressurized gas, and the controller controls the flow of the pressurized gas to the first and second lock assemblies, the controller further comprising a vent for venting gas from the first and second lock assemblies during deactuation of the first and second lock assemblies. 5. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the controller further comprises a normally open gas valve operable for actuating the first and second lock assemblies when in the open position and deactuating the first and second lock assemblies when in a closed position. 6. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the controller further comprises a manually operable lever coupled to the gas valve for closing the gas valve when the lever is operated, the lever being adapted for mounting onto the instrument whereby the user may control the gas valve with the same hand that is positioning the instrument. 7. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the position of the first pivot assembly is adjustable relative to the base. 8. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the first pivot assembly provides pivoting about only the first and second axes. 9. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the arm assembly includes a first arm section having the first end and a second arm section having the second end, with the second arm section being movable along the longitudinal axis relative to the first arm section. 10. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the grip comprises a generally C-shaped clamp for receiving an instrument shaft and a strap matingly encompassing the C-shaped clamp for securing an instrument shaft in the C-shaped clamp. 11. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the position of the first end of the arm assembly is adjustable along the longitudinal axis relative to the first pivot assembly. 12. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 11 further comprising a clamp for securing the first arm end relative to the first pivot assembly. 13. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the longitudinal axis is perpendicular to the second axis. 14. An instrument support apparatus according to claim 13 further comprising; a first lock assembly remote actuatable for locking the first pivot assembly and thereby preventing movement of the grip about the first and second axis; and a second lock assembly, also remotely actuatable, for locking the second end of the arm assembly relative to the first end of the arm assembly and thereby preventing movement of the grip along and about the longitudinal axis of the arm assembly. whereby, when the first and second lock assemblies are actuated, the grip is immovable about the first and second axes, and is immovable about and along the longitudinal axis of the arm assembly. 15. An instrument support apparatus for supporting an instrument having a shaft extending along a shaft axis relative to a patient positioned adjacent to an external frame comprising: a base fixedly mountable on the external frame; a shank defining a vertical shank axis and mated to and insertable in the base and adjustable to a plurality of vertical positions relative to the base; first and second clamp assemblies, the second clamp assembly defining a horizontal axis and being adjustable through an arc in a plane perpendicular to the horizontal axis; a first pivot assembly mounted atop the shank and secured thereto by the first clamp assembly, and rotatable about the shank axis an arm assembly defining a longitudinal axis perpendicular to the horizontal axis and having a first arm section mounted in the second clamp assembly and adjustable along the longitudinal axis relative to the first pivot assembly and a second arm section movable along the longitudinal axis relative to the first arm section, the second arm section also being rotatable about the longitudinal axis; a grip having a grip axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis, a generally C-shaped clamp for clamping the instrument relative to the second arm section and a strap matingly encompassing the C-shaped clamp, the C-shaped clamp and the strap being secured to the second arm section and defining the grip axis, the C-shaped clamp further having a bore for containing the instrument shaft; a second pivot assembly mounting the grip to the second arm section of the arm assembly for pivoting the grip relative to the second arm section about a grip axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the arm assembly and perpendicular to the support axis; a first pressurized-gas-actuated lock assembly for locking the first pivot assembly on the shank axis and for locking the third clamp assembly; a second pressurized-gas-actuated lock assembly for locking the second arm section relative to the first arm section both along the longitudinal axis and rotationally; and a manually operable lock-actuating controller, coupled to the first and second lock assemblies for actuating the lock assemblies simultaneously when in a first operating state and releasing the first and second lock assemblies when the controller is in a second operating state, the controller having a vent for venting gas from the first and second lock assemblies when in the second operating state and a lever adapted for mounting onto the instrument for controlling operation of the controller by a user by the same hand that is positioning the instrument; whereby the grip is movable by a user using only one hand. 