A mass storage device includes a secondary bidirectional interface digital port connected to an embedded microcontroller, and a wireless communications path, such as an optical infra-red (IR) path, connected to the secondary bidirectional interface port for providing a wireless bidirectional secondary communications path between the embedded microcontroller and an external service unit which is not directly connected to the digital computer via a primary electrical bus structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer peripheral mass storage device for providing mass storage of user digital data to a computer and including an embedded device microcontroller, and a primary user data interface structure for passing digital user data recorded on storage media to a digital computer electrically connected to the computer mass storage device via a primary electrical bus structure, the computer peripheral mass storage device being included in a device housing and further comprising: a front panel of the device housing accessible to the user, a bidirectional optical path extending through the front panel and viewable by the user, the bidirectional optical Path including a separating device for separating light energy into two components, a first visible light emission device operated by the embedded device microcontroller and coupled to the optical path for providing visual indication of device activity or status to the user, a second bi-directional optical light emission/detection means coupled to the optical path and providing a wireless secondary interface of the peripheral mass storage device for receiving and sending device-specific information from and to an external device-specific data source, optical path emission/detection support circuitry connected to the emission/detection means, a secondary bidirectional interface digital port interconnecting the device microcontroller and the optical path emission/detection support circuitry, for enabling the embedded device microcontroller to receive and send device-specific information from and to the external device-specific data source. 2. The computer peripheral mass storage device set forth in claim 2 wherein the device comprises a digital streaming tape drive. 3. The computer peripheral mass storage device set forth in claim 2 wherein the device comprises an optical disk drive. 4. The computer peripheral mass storage device set forth in claim 1 wherein the device comprises a hard disk drive. 5. The computer peripheral mass storage device set forth in claim 1 wherein the separating device comprises a prism located interiorly adjacent of the front panel for directing light energy between the path and the optical path emission/detection means in a first direction, and for directing visible light energy from the first visible light emission device to the optical path in a second direction. 6. The computer peripheral mass storage device set forth in claim 1 wherein the optical path emission/detection means comprises an infra-red light energy emitter and an infra-red light energy receiver. 7. The computer peripheral mass storage device set forth in claim 1 wherein the external device-specific data source comprises a portable peripheral storage device service computer in effective optical proximity to the computer peripheral mass storage device and including an optical path detection/emission means for passing light energy carrying the device-specific information between the service computer and the optical path of the computer peripheral mass storage device. 8. The computer peripheral mass storage device set forth in claim 7 wherein the portable peripheral storage device service computer comprises a personal digital assistant device having a bidirectional optical port directed at the optical path of the computer peripheral mass storage device. 9. The computer peripheral mass storage device set forth in claim 7 wherein the portable peripheral storage device service computer comprises a factory robot having a bidirectional optical port directed at the optical path of the computer peripheral mass storage device. 10. The computer peripheral mass storage device set forth in claim 1 wherein the device microcontroller collects device status information and sends the device status information to the external device-specific data source via the wireless secondary interface. 11. The computer peripheral mass storage device set forth in claim 1 wherein the external device-specific data source sends firmware updates to the device microcontroller via the wireless secondary interface. 