A positive displacement positioner employs rigid stops and actuators to position a work piece, such as a microtiter plate, in any one of at least three positions. Positioner platforms, each of which is capable of moving a work piece between at least two distinct positions, are nested in order to multiply the number of positions available. For example, a two-position rigid stop positioner platform nested in a four-position rigid stop positioner platform, or a four-position rigid stop positioner platform nested in a two-position rigid stop positioner platform would permit the movement of a work piece to any one of eight distinct positions. A four-position platform nested inside a four-position platform yields sixteen positions, and so on. Each positioner platform preferably has a symmetrical polygonal outline and nested platforms provide displacement along each of the polygon's axes of symmetry. Consequently, a positioner will preferably provide displacement to any one of a number of positions.
Claims We claim: 1. A nested rigid stop positioner for positioning a work piece, comprising: a first rigid stop positioner, adapted to provide two-position translational movement to a work piece; and a second rigid stop positioner which nests with said first rigid stop positioner to provide two-position translational movement to said first positioner and to thereby provide a total of more than two available positions for positioning said work piece. 2. The nested positioner of claim 1, said nested rigid stop positioner has an outline shape which is a polygon having a axes of symmetry, where A is an integer greater than one. 3. The nested positioner of claim 2, wherein each of the first and second rigid stop positioners is a positioner which provides two-position translational motion along each of the axes of symmetry. 4. The nested positioner of claim 1, wherein each of the first and second rigid stop positioners provides two-position translational motion along at least two axes and the total number of positions into which the nested positioner may move a work piece is at least sixteen. 5. The nested positioner of claim 2, wherein the total number of positions into which the nested positioner may move a work piece is equal to the product of 4 times the number of rigid stop positioners that are nested and the number of axes of symmetry of the polygon which defines the outline of the nested positioner. 6. The nested positioner of claim 5, wherein each rigid stop positioner includes at least two actuators, two rigid stops and a platform, with said actuators, stops and platforms coupled to provide translational motion of said platforms to any one of 2A adjacent coplanar positions. 7. The nested positioner of claim 6, wherein each additional rigid stop positioner after said first rigid stop positioner is coupled to provide translational motion to the immediately preceding rigid stop positioner and to thereby provide translational motion of a work piece to any of (2A).sup.N adjacent coplanar positions, where N is the total number of nested positioner platforms. 8. The nested positioner of claim 7, wherein each of said actuators comprises a pair of inflatable bladders coupled to provide translational movement in opposition to one another, with one bladder inflated as the other is deflated. 9. The nested positioner of claim 5, wherein the number of axes A is not the same for all of said nested positioners. 10. A nested rigid stop positioner, comprising: a first rigid stop positioner, including first and second actuators, first and second stops, and a first platform, with said actuators and stops coupled to said platform to provide two-position translational movement to said platform in each of two orthogonal coplanar directions, thereby providing four-position placement; and a second rigid stop positioner nested with the first rigid stop positioner, the second rigid stop positioner including third and fourth actuators, third and fourth stops, and a second platform, with said third and fourth actuators and third and fourth stops coupled to said second platform to provide two-position translational movement to said second platform in each of said two orthogonal directions, thereby providing four-position placement, said second platform being coupled to said first positioner to provide four-position placement to said first positioner and to thereby provide sixteen-position placement for said first platform. 11. The nested positioner of claim 10, wherein each of said actuators comprises a pair of inflatable bladders coupled to provide translational movement in opposition to one another, with one bladder inflated as the other is deflated. 12. A polygonal nested positioner, comprising: a plurality of nested two-position linear actuators coupled to positioning platforms to thereby provide translational movement to said platforms along the polygon's axes of symmetry such that a workpiece may be positioned in any one of at least two-positions for each of the polygon's axes of symmetry; and a plurality of corresponding rigid stops coupled to said platforms to determine the extent of translational movement available to each platform from said nested linear actuators. 13. The nested positioner of claim 12, wherein none of the available positions overlaps any other available positions. 14. The nested positioner of claim 12, wherein at least one available position overlaps with another available position. 15. A method of positioning a workpiece, comprising the steps of: moving the workpiece with a first actuator rigid stop combination; and employing a second actuator rigid stop combination which nests with the first actuator rigid stop combination to move the first actuator rigid stop combination and to thereby move the workpiece. 16. A nested rigid stop positioner for selectively positioning a multi-well microtiter plate beneath a multi-tip reagent dispenser comprising: a first rigid stop positioner, connected to provide two-position translational movement to the multi-well microtiter plate; a second rigid positioner, nested with said first rigid stop positioner to provide two-position translational movement to said first positioner and to thereby provide a total of more than two available positions for positioning said plate. 17. The positioner of claim 16 wherein the multi-tip reagent dispenser has n tips arranged in a grid to discharge reagent or reagents substantially simultaneously into n-wells of the multi-well microtiter plate. 18. The positioner of claim 17 wherein the positioner can position the multi-well microtiter plate in at least m different positions in which n different wells are located beneath the multi-tip reagent dispenser. 19. The positioner of claim 18 wherein the multi-well microtiter plate has a total of mn wells. 20. The positioner of claim 16 wherein n equals 96. 21. The positioner of claim 18 wherein m equals an integer from 4 to 16. 22. A nested rigid stop positioner for selectively positioning a multi-well microtiter plate with respect to a multi-tip reagent dispenser comprising: a first rigid stop positioner, including first and second actuators, first and second stops, and a first platform on which the multi-tip reagent dispenser is mounted, with said actuators and stops coupled to said platform to provide two-position translational movement to said platform in each of two orthogonal coplanar directions, thereby providing four-position placement; and a second rigid stop positioner nested with the first rigid stop positioner, the second rigid stop positioner including third and fourth actuators, third and fourth stops, and a second platform, with said third and fourth actuators and third and fourth stops coupled to said second platform to provide two-position translational movement to said second platform in each of said two orthogonal directions, thereby providing four-position placement, said second platform being coupled to said first positioner to provide four-position placement to said first positioner and to thereby provide sixteen-position placement for said first platform. 23. The positioner of claim 22 wherein the multi-tip reagent dispenser has 96 discrete tips for substantially simultaneously discharging a reagent or reagents. 24. The positioner of claim 22 wherein the multi-well microtiter plate has 1536 wells arranged in 16 grids of 96 wells. 25. A nested rigid stop positioner for selectively positioning a multi-well microtiter plate with respect to a multi-tip reagent dispenser comprising: a first rigid stop positioner, including first and second actuators, first and second stops, and a first platform on which the multi-well microtiter plate is mounted, with said actuators and stops coupled to said platform to provide two-position translational movement to said platform in each of two orthogonal coplanar directions, thereby providing four-position placement; and a second rigid stop positioner nested with the first rigid stop positioner, the second rigid stop positioner including third and fourth actuators, third and fourth stops, and a second platform, with said third and fourth actuators and third and fourth stops coupled to said second platform to provide two-position translational movement to said second platform in each of said two orthogonal directions, thereby providing four-position placement, said second platform being coupled to said first positioner to provide four-position placement to said first positioner and to thereby provide sixteen-position placement for said first platform. 26. The positioner of claim 25 wherein the multi-tip reagent dispenser has 96 discrete tips for substantially simultaneous discharging a reagent or reagents;. 27. The positioner of claim 25 wherein the multi-well microtiter plate has 1536 wells arranged in 16 grids of 96 wells. 28. A method of discharging reagent from a multi-tip reagent dispenser into wells of a multi-well microtiter plate comprising the steps of: moving the multi-well microtiter plate relative to the multi-tip reagent dispenser with a first actuator/rigid stop combination to a first position; discharging reagent; employing a second actuator/rigid stop combination which nests with the first actuator/rigid stop combination to move the first actuator/rigid stop combination and to thereby move the multi-well microtiter plate relative to the multi-tip reagent dispenser to a second position; and discharging reagent. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the multi-tip reagent dispenser has n discrete tips and the multi-well microtiter plate has a total of mn wells arranged in m grids of n-wells, and the first and second actuator/rigid stop combinations are operated to move each of the m grids of n-wells beneath the n discrete tips of the multi-tip reagent dispenser. 