A programmable furniture texturing robotic system includes a programmable multiaxis robot fixed to a support frame and a table fixed to a support frame such that they form an integrated unit and the programmable multiaxis robot has a furniture texturing tool unit attached to the end of the robot arm. The furniture texturing tool unit is attachable to and detachable from the arm of the robot and is either a furniture chattering tool unit or a furniture distressing multitool turret. The furniture chattering tool unit has a circular saw blade which produces surface chatter marks when it is dragged across the surface of a furniture part. The furniture distressing tool unit has a plurality of furniture distressing tools, each of which produce a plurality of furniture distress marks including simulated wood rot, worm holes, hatchet marks, rock marks, wood split marks, crooked vein lines, and cigarette burn marks.
Claims We claim: 1. A programmable furniture texturing robotic system, comprising: a programmable multiaxis robot having a tool arm and a tool end of said tool arm; and a furniture texturing tool unit attached to said tool end including at least one furniture texturing tool, wherein said furniture texturing tool unit is selected from the group consisting of a furniture distressing tool unit and a furniture chattering tool unit. 2. A programmable furniture texturing robotic system according to claim 1, further comprising: a vacuum table constructed and arranged to hold said furniture part while said at least one furniture texturing tool produces texture markings on said furniture part. 3. A programmable furniture texturing robotic system, comprising: a programmable multiaxis robot having a tool arm and a tool end of said tool arm; and a furniture texturing tool unit attached to said tool end including at least one furniture texturing tool, wherein said furniture tool unit is a furniture distressing tool unit which includes: a multitool turret having a tool arm attachment region, said multitool turret is attachable to and detachable from said tool end, and has a plurality of furniture distressing tool attachment regions, and said at least one furniture texturing tool is a first furniture distressing tool attached to said multitool turret at a first furniture distressing tool attachment region of said plurality of furniture distressing tool attachment regions. 4. A programmable furniture texturing robotic system according to claim 3, wherein said furniture distressing tool unit includes a compound furniture distressing tool attachment bracket attached to said multitool turret at a second furniture tool attachment region of said plurality of furniture distressing tool attachment regions, wherein said compound furniture distressing tool bracket has a plurality of compound bracket furniture distressing tool attachment regions. 5. A programmable furniture texturing robotic system according to claim 4, wherein said furniture distressing tool unit includes second, third, and fourth furniture distressing tools attached to first, second and third compound bracket furniture distressing tool attachment regions of said plurality of compound bracket furniture distressing tool attachment regions, wherein said first furniture distressing tool is a router distressing tool having a selectable router bit to selectively produce a first plurality of furniture distress marks, said second furniture distressing tool is a descalar distressing tool including a descalar and having first and second descalar pins pivotally attached to said descalar to selectively produce a second plurality of furniture distress marks, said third furniture distressing tool is a rock distressing tool having a distressing rock with a plurality of convex and concave surface regions and is attached to a first slidable member which is in contact with a first expansion component such that an impulse applied by said first expansion component to said first slidable member thrusts said distressing rock into a furniture part to selectively produce a third plurality of furniture distress marks, and said fourth furniture distressing tool is a hatchet distressing tool having a distressing hatchet attached to a second slidable member which is in contact with a second expansion component such that an impulse applied by said second expansion component to said second slidable member thrusts said distressing hatchet into said furniture part to selectively produce a fourth plurality of furniture distress marks. 6. A programmable furniture texturing robotic system, comprising: a programmable multiaxis robot having a tool arm and a tool end of said tool arm; and a furniture texturing tool unit attached to said tool end of said tool arm including at least one furniture texturing tool, wherein said furniture texturing tool unit is a furniture chattering tool unit which includes: a support frame having an attachment region which is attachable to and detachable from said tool end, a motor attached to said support frame such that a drive shaft of said motor has a longitudinal axis that extends in a direction from an attachment end of said support frame to a furniture part end of said support frame, and a chattering saw blade fixed to said drive shaft substantially at a center point of said saw blade and substantially orthogonal to said longitudinal axis of said drive shaft, wherein said saw blade rotates as said drive shaft rotates. 7. A programmable furniture texturing robotic system, comprising: a programmable multiaxis robot having a tool arm and a tool end of said tool arm; and a furniture texturing tool unit attached to said tool end including at least one furniture texturing tool, a vacuum table constructed and arranged to hold said furniture part while said at least one furniture texturing tool produces texture markings on said furniture part; and a support frame, wherein said vacuum table and said programmable multiaxis robot are mounted to said support frame to form an integrated unit to maintain proper alignment of said tool end relative to said furniture part. 8. A programmable furniture texturing robotic system according to claim 7, wherein said programmable multiaxis robot includes a counterweight disposed at an end of said tool arm which is disposed a distance from said tool end of said tool arm to substantially cancel a primary component of torque on said tool arm generated by said furniture texturing tool unit. 9. A method of texturing furniture comprising the steps of: selecting a furniture texturing tool unit from a plurality of different furniture texturing tool units; attaching said furniture texturing tool unit selected in said selecting step to a tool end of an arm of a programmable furniture texturing robot; programming a programmable furniture texturing robot to perform a predetermined sequence of furniture texturing operations; disposing a furniture part proximate to said programmable furniture texturing robot; and running said programmable furniture texturing robot through said predetermined sequence of furniture texturing operations thereby substantially producing said predetermined furniture texture marks on a surface of a furniture part, wherein a furniture part is disposed proximate to said programmable furniture texturing robot as part of said programming. 10. A method of texturing furniture according to claim 9, further comprising the steps of: repeating said disposing step and said running step, respectively, a plurality of times after the first said disposing step and the first said running step thereby substantially producing said predetermined furniture texture marks on a surface of each of a plurality furniture parts. 11. A plurality of furniture parts produced in accordance with the method of claim 10, wherein each furniture part within said plurality of furniture parts has texture markings that are substantially identical. 12. A plurality of furniture parts produced in accordance with the method of claim 10, wherein each furniture part within said plurality of furniture parts has furniture distressing marks that include at least one of a wormhole, wood rot, hatchet, rock, or cigarette burn. 13. A plurality of furniture parts according to claim 12, wherein said furniture distressing marks produced in each of said plurality of furniture parts are substantially identical to the remaining ones of said plurality of furniture parts. 14. A method of texturing furniture according to claim 9, wherein said step of selecting a furniture texturing tool unit consists of selecting a furniture distressing tool unit, and said programming step includes programming to perform a predetermined sequence of furniture distressing operations thereby substantially producing predetermined furniture distress marks on a surface of a furniture part. 15. A method of texturing furniture according to claim 14, wherein said predetermined sequence is repeated to produce furniture distressing marks which are substantially identical to the first mentioned furniture distress marks. 16. A method of texturing furniture according to claim 14, wherein said predetermined sequence is repeated to produce furniture distressing marks which are different from the first mentioned furniture distress marks. 17. A method of texturing furniture according to claim 9, wherein said step of selecting a furniture texturing tool unit consists of selecting a chattering tool unit, and said programming step includes programming to perform a predetermined sequence of chattering operations thereby substantially producing predetermined furniture chatter marks on a surface of a furniture part. 18. A plurality of furniture parts produced in accordance with the method of claim 17, wherein each furniture part within said plurality of furniture parts has chattering marks produced therein that are substantially identical. 19. A method of texturing furniture comprising the steps of: selecting a furniture texturing tool unit from the group consisting of a furniture distressing tool unit and a furniture chattering tool unit; attaching said furniture texturing tool unit selected in said selecting step to a tool end of an arm of a programmable furniture texturing robot; programming a programmable furniture texturing robot to perform a predetermined sequence of furniture texturing operations; disposing a furniture part proximate to said programmable furniture texturing robot; and running said programmable furniture texturing robot through said predetermined sequence of furniture texturing operations thereby substantially producing said predetermined furniture texture marks on a surface of a furniture part. 