An interface that allows a surgeon to remotely control surgical devices and conditions of an operation room. The surgeon views a video image that is displayed by a monitor. The monitor may be coupled to a video device such as a laparoscopic camera that is attached to the end of an endoscope. Static graphic images and a dynamic graphic cursor are overlayed onto the video image. The graphic cursor has a pixel location on the monitor which corresponds to a spatial location of a pointer signal. The pointer signal is transmitted by a transmitter worn on the head of the surgeon. The pointer signal may be a laser which is directed to a screen that is located adjacent to a detection camera. The surgeon may move the graphic cursor relative to the video image by tilting his head and varying the spatial location of the pointer signal. The interface may have a controller which generates output signals in response to the movement of the pointer signal. The output signals may move a robotic arm which controls the position of the endoscope. The controller may also generate command signals when the graphic cursor is moved into a static graphic image. The command may vary a condition of the operating room such as the position of the operating table.
Claims We claim: 1. A system that allows a user to control a movement of a surgical instrument, wherein the surgical instrument is coupled to a display device that displays a video image of an object, comprising: a mechanism that moves the surgical instrument; a graphic overlay processor which overlays a dynamic graphic cursor onto the video image; an input device that allows the user to move said dynamic graphic cursor in a first direction; an interface controller that provides an output signal when said dynamic graphic cursor is moved in the first direction; and, a robot controller that receives said output signal from said interface controller and moves said mechanism so that the video image moves in the first direction. 2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said robot controller computes a movement of said mechanism based on said output signal of said interface controller and an original position of said mechanism so that the surgical instrument moves in a desired direction associated with the first direction, said robot controller provides output signals to said mechanism to move said mechanism so that the surgical instrument always moves in the desired direction. 3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein an intersection of said mechanism and the surgical instrument defines an origin for a second coordinate system with respect to a first coordinate system, wherein the second coordinate system has a y-z plane, and said robot controller computes a movement of said mechanism from said output signal of said interface controller and provides output signals to said mechanism to move the surgical instrument so that a longitudinal axis of the surgical instrument always remains in the y-z plane. 4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said mechanism includes an end effector that holds the surgical instrument, said mechanism being located within a first coordinate system which has a first x axis, a first y axis and a first z axis, said end effector being located within a second coordinate system which has a second x axis, a second y axis and a second z axis, the surgical instrument is located within a third coordinate system which has a third x axis, a third y axis and a third z axis, said output signal of said interface controller correlates to a moving distance of the surgical instrument in the third coordinate system, said robot controller computes a moving distance of the surgical instrument in the second coordinate system from the moving distance within the third coordinate system, and computes a moving distance of the surgical instrument in the first coordinate system from the computed moving distance within the second coordinate system, and provides output signals to move said mechanism the computed moving distance within the first coordinate system. 5. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said dynamic graphic cursor can be moved into a static graphic image to select a command. 6. The system as recited in claim 5, wherein said command moves said mechanism. 