A six-degree-of-freedom multi-axes positioning apparatus is comprised of a geometry of six independent angle connectors. Each angle connector connects two fixed length rods to a pivot on one of two opposing platforms. The combination of an angle connector, at least two pivots and at least two rods having free ends connected to the pivots comprises a leg assembly. The spatial location of the upper platform is changed in relation to the lower platform by angular changes within each angle connector. This angular change results in degrees of motion within the apparatus defined as X, Y, Z, Tip, Tilt, and Rotation, or a combination of the above. This invention is known as a ROTOPOD.
Claims I claim: 1. A multi-axes positioning apparatus comprising: upper and lower platforms, each platform having opposed upper and lower surfaces, the lower surface of said upper platform being generally aligned with and spaced from the upper surface of said lower platform; six independent leg assemblies extending between said platforms; each leg assembly consisting of: a fixed-length upper rod having top ends, one end being moveably connected to said upper platform; a fixed-length lower rod having two ends, one end being moveably connected to said lower platform; angle connector means for connecting the other end of the upper rod to the other end of the lower rod, said angle connector means permitting said upper rod to move with respect to said lower rod with only one degree of freedom; each said platform having three nodes spaced in a triangular arrangement, wherein only two of said leg assemblies are connected adjacent each node on each platform; and no two leg assemblies are connected adjacent the same nodes on both platforms. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the length of all leg assemblies is equal. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the length of all upper rods is equal and the length of all lower rods is equal. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said lower rods are approximately 50% longer than said upper rods. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said leg assemblies are connected to said lower platform according to the following arrangement: first and second leg assemblies to the first node, third and fourth leg assemblies to the second node, and fifth and sixth leg assemblies to the third node; and said leg assemblies are connect to said upper platform according to the following arrangement: first and sixth leg assemblies to the first node, second and third leg assemblies to the second node, and fourth and fifth leg assemblies to the third node. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the connection of each pair of leg assemblies to a platform at a node comprises: a pair of hemispheres pivotable with respect to each other only about an axis; socket means for holding said pair of hemispheres to said platform and permitting rotation of said hemispheres with respect to said platform within said socket means; and one leg assembly of the pair of leg assemblies being rigidly attached to each hemisphere. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the connection of each leg assembly to a platform comprises a ball and socket assembly, said leg being rigidly fastened to said ball, said socket being fastened to said platform. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said platform is said upper platform. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said angle connection comprises: a straight rigid member extending along an axis of rotation perpendicular to a plane containing said upper and lower rods; a first bracket rigidly attached to said rigid member for rotation therewith, one of said rods being rigidly attached to said first bracket; a second bracket slidably attached for rotation about said rigid member, the other of said rods being rigidly attached to said second bracket; and means for preventing said second bracket from sliding along said axis relative to said first bracket. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein each of said brackets has a pair of spaced first portions extending from said rigid member and a second portion connecting said spaced portions a distance from said rigid member, each of said rods being connect to one of said second portions. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said angle connector further comprises a second axis of rotation carried by said second bracket; first engaging means for movement with said first bracket; and second engaging means for rotation along said second axis, said first and second engaging means being mechanically engaged whereby movement of one engaging means causes movement of the other engaging means without slippage. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said first engaging means consists of a toothed gear and said second engaging means consists of a worm gear. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said angle connector further comprises a shaft encoder affixed to said second bracket for counting the revolutions of said worm gear to determine the angle between said rods. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said angle connector further comprises a drive motor affixed to said second bracket for driving said worm gear to adjust the angle between said rods. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said legs is connected to a platform by a universal drive comprising: drive motor means for driving a drive axle; a clevis having a pair of spaced arms attached adjacent an end of said drive axle for pivoting around an axis extending perpendicular to said drive axle; said leg being rigidly connected to said clevis; whereby rotation of said drive axle causes the position of said leg to be adjusted. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein each pair of universal drives at a node is arranged with the drive axles extending in opposite directions but parallel to an edge of said platform. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said nodes are arranged in an equilateral triangle on each platform. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the angle between two lines extending from a connection of each leg assembly at a node to a center point of said platform is from 10.degree. to 30.degree.. 