In order to accomplish many tasks of a machine efficiently, a motion planning system predetermines the response of the machine to a given set of motion commands. With two or more actuators being driven by a single hydraulic pump, there may not be adequate hydraulic pressure to drive both of the actuators at the speed requested. In order to determine the non-linear response of the actuators and the optimal combination of motions of the moving parts driven by the actuators, a controller for the machine is modeled as a linear dynamic system. The non-linear response of the actuators is modeled using a look-up table that is a function of internal variables of the machine's actuators and hydraulic system. The number of input, or independent, variables that are supplied to the table look-up functions is proportional to the number of actuators being driven by a single pump. Sensors provide data regarding the internal state of each actuator including variables such as spool valve position and cylinder force. These variables are used to index into tables containing data that represents each actuator's constraint surface. The constraint surfaces are predetermined and are dependent on the state of the other actuators driven by the same pump.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for modeling the response of a movable component to a commanded position, the movable component being operably connected to a hydraulic actuator that is driven by a hydraulic pump supplying pressurized fluid to the actuator through a control valve, the control valve having a spool for controlling the flow of fluid to the actuator, the method comprising the steps of: (a) calculating a spool position command based on the difference between the desired position of the movable component and the actual position of the movable component; (b) measuring the force on the actuator due to the force of the hydraulic fluid; and (c) using the spool position command and the force on the actuator as indices into a table containing data on the rate of response of the hydraulic actuator for a range of spool position commands and actuator forces. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein step (a) further comprises using a model of a controller to calculate the spool position command based on the difference between the desired position of the movable component and the actual position of the movable component. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein step (b) comprises measuring the inertia of the movable component and step (c) comprises using the inertia as an index into the data table, the data table containing data on the rate of response of the hydraulic actuator for a range of spool position commands and inertias. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1 or 3 wherein step (c) further comprises using a data table containing linear and non-linear data on the rate of response of the hydraulic actuator. 5. A method for modeling the response of a plurality of movable components to a commanded position, the movable components being operably connected to corresponding hydraulic actuators, the hydraulic actuators being driven by a common hydraulic pump supplying pressurized fluid to the actuators through a control valve in each actuator, each control valve having a spool for controlling the flow of fluid to the actuator, the method comprising the steps of: (a) calculating a spool position command for each actuator based on the difference between the desired position of the movable component and the actual position of the movable component; (b) measuring the force on each actuator due to the force of the hydraulic fluid; and (c) using the spool position commands and the forces on the actuators as indices into tables containing data on the rate of response of each hydraulic actuator for a range of values of at least one measured variable. 6. The method as set forth in claim 5 wherein step (a) further comprises using a model of a controller to calculate the spool position commands based on the difference between the desired positions of the movable components and the actual positions of the movable components. 7. The method as set forth in claim 5 wherein step (b) comprises measuring the inertia of at least one movable component and step (c) comprises using the inertia as an index into the data tables, the data tables including data on the rate of response of the hydraulic actuators for a range of spool position commands, forces on the actuators, and swing velocity. 8. The method as set forth in claim 5 or 7 wherein step (c) further comprises using data tables containing linear and non-linear data on the rates of movement of the hydraulic actuators. 9. An apparatus for determining the response of at least one movable component to a commanded position, the at least one movable component being operably connected to a hydraulic actuator, the apparatus comprising: a hydraulic pump supplying pressurized fluid to the actuator through a control valve, the control valve having a spool for controlling the flow of fluid to the actuator; a controller operable to calculate a spool position command based on the difference between the desired position of the movable component and the actual position of the movable component; means operable to measure the force on the actuator due to the force of the hydraulic fluid; and a data processor operable to execute a table look-up algorithm using the spool position command and the force on the actuator as indices into a table containing data on the rate of response of the hydraulic actuator for a range of spool position commands and actuator forces. 10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9 further comprising means operable to measure the inertia of a movable component and using it as an index into the data table, the data table containing data on the rate of response of the hydraulic actuator for a range of at least one measured variable. 11. The method as set forth in claim 9 or 10 wherein the data table includes linear and non-linear data on the rate of response of the hydraulic actuator. 12. An apparatus for determining the response of a plurality of movable components, each movable component being operably connected to a corresponding hydraulic actuator, the apparatus comprising: a hydraulic pump supplying pressurized fluid to the actuators, each actuator having a control valve with a spool for controlling the flow of the pressurized fluid to the actuator; at least one controller operable to calculate a spool position command for each actuator based on the difference between the desired position of the movable component and the actual position of the movable component connected to the actuator; means operable to measure the force on each actuator due to the force of the pressurized fluid; and a data processor operable to execute a table look-up algorithm that uses the spool position commands and the forces on the actuators as indices into at least one table containing data on the rate of response of the hydraulic actuators for a range of spool position commands and actuator forces. 13. The apparatus as set forth in claim 12 further comprising means operable to measure the inertia of at least one movable component and using the inertia as an index into at least one data table, the at least one data table containing data pertaining to the response of the hydraulic actuators for a range of spool position commands, forces on the actuators, and inertias. 14. The method as set forth in claim 12 or 13 wherein at least one data table includes non-linear data on the rate of response of the hydraulic actuators. 15. An apparatus for planning the movement of a hydraulic machine, the hydraulic machine having a plurality of moving components operably connected to actuators driven by pressurized hydraulic fluid, the apparatus comprising: a data processor operable to execute a software model of at least one controller of the hydraulic machine, the controller supplying commands proportional to the desired positions of the movable components to at least one table look-up subroutine, the table look-up subroutine using the commands and the forces of the pressurized hydraulic fluid on the actuators as indices into at least one data table, at least one data table containing data corresponding to the response of the hydraulic actuators to the commands and the forces. 16. The apparatus as set forth in claim 15 wherein a plurality of the hydraulic actuators are driven by a common hydraulic pump and at least one data table includes data corresponding to the linear and non-linear response of the actuators. 17. The apparatus as set forth in claim 15 further comprising means operable to measure the inertia of at least one movable component and using the inertia as an index into at least one data table, the at least one data table containing data on the response of the hydraulic actuators for a range of spool position commands and inertias. 