A system for resupplying power to self-contained mobile equipment, including a fixed station having an external power source and consisting of a high-frequency generator and an induction coil as well as, on or in the equipment, a pick-up coil, a current filtering and rectifying device, a rechargeable battery pack, and a microcomputer-controlled tracking system. The microcomputer is connected to the drive control system of the equipment and applies a drive algorithm to the fixed station when the battery charge level drops below a predetermined level, the algorithm being based on a measurement of the high-frequency generator signal reception strength gradient.
Claims I claim: 1. System for resupplying power to a mobile self-contained device comprising: an essentially fixed station supplied by an external source; on or in the device, a rechargeable battery and a positioning system controlled by a microcomputer; the microcomputer connected to drive the positioning system of the device in the direction of the fixed station when the battery charge level drops below a predetermined level, wherein: the essentially fixed station comprises a high frequency generator and an induction coil producing a gradient of intensity of high frequency signals, a pick-up coil and a current rectifying device are incorporated on or in the device for recharging the rechargeable battery by induction; the microcomputer connected to drive the positioning system of the device in direction of the fixed station, applies an algorithm partially or totally based on the measurement of the gradient of the intensity of received high frequency signals from said generator. 2. System according to claim 1, wherein the induction coil of the fixed station and the pick-up coil of the device are both perpendicular to the plane of motion of the device. 3. System according to claim 1, wherein the induction coil of the fixed station and the pick-up coil are both parallel to the plane of motion of the device. 4. System according to claim 1, wherein the induction coil of the fixed station and the pick-up coil of the mobile device are both essentially parallel to the plane of motion of the device, the induction coil being located at the level of or under the ground. 5. System according to claim 1, wherein the induction coil of the fixed station and the pick-up coil of the mobile device are both essentially parallel to the plane of motion of the device, and wherein the microcomputer, by means of a drive control system, instructs a 90.degree. rotation of the device when the field gradient drops below a predetermined value and a rotation of 180.degree. of the device when the field gradient is negative. 6. Autonomous robot associated with a power recharge system comprising: an essentially fixed station supplied by an external source; on or in the robot, a rechargeable battery and a positioning system controlled by a microcomputer; the microcomputer connected to drive the positioning system of the robot in the direction of the fixed station when the battery charge level drops below a predetermined level, wherein the essentially fixed station comprises a high frequency generator and an induction coil; a pick-up coil and a current rectifying device are incorporated on or in the device; the microcomputer connected to the positioning system of the device in direction of the fixed station, applies an algorithm partially or totally based on the measurement of the gradient of the intensity of received high frequency signals from said generator. 7. Robot according to claim 6, wherein the robot is a lawnmower, a surface cleaning device or a handling device. 