A molecular detection device including a support member (36) and a plurality of molecular receptors (34) arranged at a plurality of sites of the support member (36). In a first aspect, the molecular receptors (34) are arranged in accordance with a mapping selected from the group consisting of a random mapping and a pseudorandom mapping. In a second aspect, data associated with the mapping is written to a member associated with the support member (36). In a third aspect, the molecular receptors (34) includes a first plurality of molecular receptors germane to an application and at least one molecular receptor extraneous to the application.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a molecular detection device, the method comprising the steps of: arranging and immobilizing a plurality of molecular receptors at a plurality of sites of a support member, the plurality of molecular receptors arranged in accordance with a pseudorandom mapping wherein the mapping is stored in a memory device. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of generating the pseudorandom mapping of the plurality of molecular receptors to the plurality of sites. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of generating the pseudorandom mapping includes scrambling an initial assignment of the plurality of molecular receptors to the plurality of sites. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein each molecular receptor of the plurality of molecular receptors has an equal probability of being assigned to any preselected site of the plurality of sites. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein each site of the plurality of sites has an equal probability of being assigned any preselected molecular receptor of the plurality of molecular receptors. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the mapping is statistically uncorrelated with a second mapping for a second molecular detection device. 7. A molecular detection device comprising: a support member; and a plurality of molecular receptors arranged and immobilized at a plurality of sites of the support member, the plurality of molecular receptors arranged in accordance with a pseudorandom mapping wherein the pseudorandom mapping is statistically uncorrelated with a second pseudorandom mapping for a second molecular detection device. 8. The molecular detection device of claim 7 wherein each molecular receptor of the plurality of molecular receptors has an equal probability of being assigned to any preselected site of the plurality of sites. 9. The molecular detection device of claim 7 wherein each site of the plurality of sites has an equal probability of being assigned any preselected molecular receptor of the plurality of molecular receptors. 10. A method of forming a molecular detection device, the method comprising the steps of: arranging a plurality of molecular receptors at a plurality of sites of a support member, the plurality of molecular receptors arranged in accordance with a pseudorandom mapping; and writing data associated with the pseudorandom mapping to a member associated with the support member. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the member is attached to the support member. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the member is detachable from the support member. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein the data includes an identification code which identifies the pseudorandom mapping. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein the data encodes the pseudorandom mapping. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the data includes a sequence of integers to encode the pseudorandom mapping. 16. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of writing data associated with the pseudorandom mapping to a database. 17. The method of claim 10 wherein the data is selected from the group consisting of printed data, magnetic data, electronic data, and optical data. 18. A molecular detection device comprising: a support member having a member associated therewith; a plurality of molecular receptors at a plurality of sites of the support member, the plurality of molecular receptors arranged in accordance with a pseudorandom mapping; and data associated with the pseudorandom mapping written to the member. 19. The molecular detection device of claim 18 wherein the data includes an identification code which identifies the pseudorandom mapping. 20. A method of forming a molecular detection device for an application, the method comprising the steps of: pseudorandomly selecting at least one molecular receptor extraneous to the application from a plurality of extraneous molecular receptors; and arranging a plurality of molecular receptors at a plurality of sites of a support member, the plurality of molecular receptors including at least one molecular receptor germane to the application and the at least one molecular receptor extraneous to the application to assist in concealing a result of the application. 21. A method of forming a molecular detection device for an application, the method comprising the steps of: pseudorandomly generating at least one molecular receptor extraneous to the application; and arranging a plurality of molecular receptors at a plurality of sites of a support member, the plurality of molecular receptors including at least one molecular receptor germane to the application and the at least one molecular receptor extraneous to the application to assist in concealing a result of the application. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein the plurality of molecular receptors are arranged in accordance with a pseudorandom mapping. 23. The method of claim 20 wherein each of the plurality of molecular receptors is receptive to a respective chain of at least one nucleotide. 24. A molecular detection device comprising: a support member; and a plurality of molecular receptors arranged at a plurality of sites of the support member, the plurality of molecular receptors including at least one molecular receptor germane to an application and at least one pseudorandomly-selected molecular receptor extraneous to the application to assist in concealing a result of the application. 25. The molecular detection device of claim 24 wherein the at least one pseudorandomly-selected molecular receptor is receptive to a pseudorandom sequence of at least one nucleotide. 26. The molecular detection device of claim 24 wherein each of the plurality of molecular receptors is receptive to a respective chain of at least one nucleotide. 27. The molecular detection device of claim 18 wherein the plurality of molecular receptors are immobilized at the plurality of sites. 28. The molecular detection device of claim 18 wherein the data encodes the pseudorandom mapping. 29. The molecular detection device of claim 28 wherein the data includes a sequence of integers to encode the pseudorandom mapping. 