A loading apparatus includes a cassette loader with a cassette support plate that can extend through a window of an enclosure. A cassette on the support plate can be moved through the window. A motor rotates the support plate to place the cassette in position to be lifted by a robotic arm and transferred to a holding tub. When the support plate is rotated, a shield moves to a position to close the window.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for transporting a substrate-holding cassette to a chemical mechanical polisher, comprising: an enclosure having a loading port; a support member pivotable about a vertical axis and positioned inside the enclosure; a cassette support slidably connected to the support member and movable along a horizontal axis; a first motor to linearly position the cassette support along the horizontal axis; a shield connected to the support member at a position offset from the horizontal axis; and a second motor to rotate the support member between a first position in which the shield is aligned with the loading port and a second position in which the horizontal axis is aligned with the loading port so that the cassette support may be driven by the first motor to extend through the loading port. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the shield comprises a transparent window. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the cassette support is coupled to the first motor by a lead screw, and the first motor rotates the lead screw to move the cassette support along the horizontal axis. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the support member includes a linear rail and the cassette support is slidably connected to the support member by a hand which engages the rail. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a holding tank; a robotic arm for moving the cassette between the holding tank and the cassette support when the support member is in the first position. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the robotic arm includes a rotatable claw. 7. A chemical mechanical polishing station, comprising: an enclosure having a loading port; a support member pivotable about a vertical axis and positioned inside the enclosure; a cassette support slidably connected to the support member and movable along a horizontal axis; a first motor to linearly position the cassette support along the horizontal axis; a shield connected to the support member at a position offset from the horizontal axis; and a second motor to rotate the support member between a first position in which the shield is aligned with the loading port and a second position in which the horizontal axis is aligned with the loading port so that the cassette support may be driven by the first motor to extend through the loading port; a holding tank; a polishing apparatus including a rotatable polishing pad and a carrier head to hold a substrate in contact with the polishing pad; and a robotic arm for moving the cassette between the holding tank and the cassette support when the support member is in the first position, and for moving the substrate between a cassette in the holding tank and the polishing apparatus. 8. A method of transporting a substrate-holding cassette to a chemical mechanical polisher, comprising: pivoting a support member about a vertical axis to a first position; extending a cassette support which is slidably connected to the support member through a loading port in an enclosure; placing a cassette on the cassette support; withdrawing the cassette support through the loading port; and pivoting the support member to a second position in which a shield that is connected to the support member is aligned with the loading port. 9. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the linear rail is aligned with the horizontal axis. 10. An apparatus for transporting a substrate-holding cassette to a chemical mechanical polisher, comprising: an enclosure having a loading port; a support member pivotable about a first axis between a first position and a second position, the support member positioned inside the enclosure; a cassette support slidably connected to the support member and movable along a second axis so that if the support member is in the second position, the first axis is aligned with the loading port such that the cassette support may extend through the loading port; and a shield connected to the support member at a position offset from the second axis so that if the support member is in the first position, the shield is aligned with the loading port. 