Method of one side spot welding of a metallic auto body construction containing vaporizable coatings or ingredients, the construction having overlapping metal plys, comprising: impinging a plasma column on a selected spot of one side of the construction, the plasma column being generated by passing a plasma gas at a predetermined flow rate through an electrical arc created by a predetermined electrical current path; shielding the plasma column in an inert gas containing at least 5-35% by volume of oxygen, the shielded plasma column melting at least the metal on one ply at the spot while the oxygen increases the fluidity and wetablility of the melted metal and reduce its surface tension allowing any vaporization of the ingredients to quiescently escape through the molten metal; and ceasing plasma arc impingement for allowing the molten metal to solidify and complete the spot weld.
Claims We claim: 1. Method of one side spot welding of a metallic auto body construction having construction having superimposed metal plys with vaporizable coatings or ingredients, the construction having overlapping metal plys, comprising: (a) implying a plasma column on a selected spot of one side of said construction having vaporizable coatings or ingredients, said plasma column being created by passing a plasma gas at a predetermined flow rate through an electrical arc created by a predetermined electrical current path; (b) shielding said plasma column in an inert gas containing at least 5-30% by volume oxygen, said shielded plasma column melting at least the metal of one ply at said spot while the oxygen increases the fluidity and wetability of the melted metal and reduces its surface tension allowing any vaporization of the ingredients to quiescently escape through the molten metal; and (c) ceasing plasma arc impingement for allowing the molten metal to solidify and complete the spot weld. 2. The method as in claim 1, in which said plasma arc current is initially low for a period of about 0.5 seconds to allow the plasma arc column to force the molten pool radially outwardly and thence through the first ply, and concurrently the arc current is increased while the plasma flow rate is reduced during the remainder of the plasma welding. 3. The method as in claim 2, in which the arc current is reduced during the last 0.25 seconds of impingement of the plasma column. 4. The method as in claim 1, in which after cessation of the plasma arc column, a reducing shield gas is substituted for said oxygen. 5. The method as in claim 1, in which said shielding gas is selected from argon and helium. 6. The method as in claim 1, in which argon is selected as the principal shielding gas containing oxygen in a volume amount of 25-35%. 7. The method as in claim 1 in which helium is selected as the shielding gas containing oxygen in a volume amount of 10-25%. 