A method of dispensing the material that is heated by microwave energy immediately before the material is dispensed. The method comprises a series of steps including conveying the material through a pressurized passage through a dispensing tube that has radial boundaries transparent to microwave energy. The dispensing tube is located within a microwave resonant chamber. The microwave energy is channeled from a microwave generating source along a waveguide to the microwave resonant chamber. Material within the passage is heated by the microwave energy and produces a TM.sub.020 heating profile with negligible heating at the radial boundaries of the dispensing tube. The material is dispensed onto a component along a path. The dispensing step requires a measure of time to define a dispensing cycle. The output of the microwave generating source is varied. The amount of microwave heating that occurs within the material is dependent upon the output of the microwave generating source. Material dispensed at a first point along the bond path is heated to a first temperature. Material dispensed at a second point along the bond path is heated to a second temperature.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for dispensing an adhesive material that is heated by microwave energy immediately before said material is dispensed, said method comprising the steps of: conveying said material through a pressurized passage to a dispensing tube transparent to microwave energy; locating said dispensing tube within a microwave resonant chamber; channeling a first unit of microwave energy from a microwave generating source along a waveguide to said microwave resonant chamber; heating said material with said first unit of microwave energy to a first temperature; dispensing said material heated by said first unit of microwave energy onto a component at a first location along a path; and varying the output of said microwave generating source and channeling a second unit of microwave energy to said microwave resonant chamber and heating said material with said second unit of microwave energy to a second temperature different from said first temperature. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said material heated by said second unit of microwave energy is dispensed at a second location along said path. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said material comprises a thermoplastic adhesive. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein said material comprises a reactive adhesive. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein said dispensing path is an elongated bond line greater than 2 meters. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the varying step varies the temperature of said material continuously along said bond path. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of joining said component to a member when the temperature of the material heated by said first unit of microwave energy is at approximately the same temperature as the material heated by said second unit of microwave energy. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein said microwave resonating chamber is cylindrical and is a TM.sub.020 mode cavity and said dispensing tube is cylindrical and passes through the center of said resonating chamber, whereby material passing through the center of said tube is heated much more than material passing along the tube radial boundaries. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the material has a velocity profile through said dispensing tube and further comprising producing a microwave electric field that matches said velocity profile whereby material passing through said tube is evenly heated along a radial cross section of said tube. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein said material is a reactive thermoset that becomes activated when heated by said microwave energy and undergoes states of cure and further comprising the step of joining said component to a member when the state of cure of the material heated by said first unit of microwave energy is at approximately the same state of cure as the material heated by said second unit of microwave energy. 11. The method according to claim 7, wherein the joining step occurs when the temperature of said material at multiple points along said path is approximately equal. 12. An in-line microwave heating apparatus for dispensing a microwave heatable material wherein said material is heated by microwave energy immediately before said material is dispensed onto a component along a path whereby a measure of time required to dispense said path defines a dispensing cycle, said apparatus comprising: a pressurized passage for conveying said material; a dispensing tube having radial boundaries transparent to microwave energy, said material having a velocity profile through said dispensing tube; a cylindrical microwave resonant chamber surrounding said dispensing tube and being a TM.sub.020 mode cavity that produces negligible heating at said dispensing tube radial boundaries, said cylindrical microwave resonant chamber producing a heating profile which substantially approximates said material velocity profile; a microwave energy generating source; a waveguide to channel said microwave energy to said microwave resonant chamber; and a PLC system controller which controls the power output of said microwave generating source and profiles said material temperature throughout said dispensing cycle such that said material is heated to a first temperature at a first point along said path and said material is heated to a second temperature at a second point along said path. 13. An in-line microwave heating apparatus of claim 12, wherein said apparatus is mounted on a robotic arm, and said component is mounted in a stationary position, said arm being movable in relationship to said stationary component during said dispensing cycle. 14. An in-line microwave heating apparatus of claim 12, wherein said component is mounted on a robotic arm, and said apparatus is mounted in a stationary position, said arm being movable in relationship to said stationary apparatus during said dispensing cycle. 