A gain medium is comprised of a multi-phase system wherein: a first phase is an electromagnetic radiation emission phase; a second phase is an electromagnetic radiation scattering phase; and a third phase is a transparent matrix phase. By example, the emission phase may consist of dye molecules, the scattering phase may consist of high contrast particles, and the matrix phase may consist of a solvent such as methanol. In some embodiments of this invention the emission and scattering phases may be the same phase, as when semiconductor particles are employed. A smallest dimension of a body comprised of the gain medium may be less than a scattering length associated with the scattering phase. It is shown that nearly thresholdless laser behavior is observed in strongly scattering optically pumped dye-methanol solutions containing colloidal TiO.sub.2 or Al.sub.2 O.sub.3 ruby nanoparticles. The emission from the high gain colloid exhibits a slope change in the linear input-output characteristics above a critical pump pulse energy. The change in slope is accompanied by a spectral line narrowing with a bichromatic spectrum appearing at high pump energies.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A light emitting device comprising an active region wherein light is generated, said active region being coupled to first and second electrodes, said active region being comprised of a polymeric material that emits light in response to being electrically stimulated by charge carriers applied to said polymeric material from said electrodes said polymeric material within said active region comprising particles selected to enhance the emitted light of said device. 2. A light emitting device as in claim 1, wherein said particles have an index of refraction that differs from an index of refraction of said polymeric material. 3. A light emitting device as in claim 1, wherein said polymeric material is comprised of PPV. 4. A light emitting device as in claim 1, wherein said particles are comprised of TiO.sub.2. 5. A light emitting device as in claim 1, wherein said particles are comprised of SiO.sub.2. 6. A light emitting device as in claim 1, wherein said particles are comprised of Al.sub.2 O.sub.3. 7. A light emitting device as in claim 1, wherein at least one of said electrodes is substantially transparent to the emitted light. 8. A light emitting device as in claim 1, wherein at least one of said electrodes is comprised of indium-tin-oxide. 9. A light emitting device comprising an active region wherein light is generated, said active region being coupled to first and second electrodes, said active region being comprised of a polymeric material that emits light in response to being electrically stimulated by charge carriers applied to said polymeric material from said electrodes said polymeric material within said active region comprising sites that have an index of refraction that differs from an index of refraction of said polymeric material, said sites enhancing the emitted light of said device. 10. A light emitting device as in claim 9, wherein said sites are comprised of particles. 11. A light emitting device as in claim 10, wherein said particles are comprised of TiO.sub.2. 12. A light emitting device as in claim 10, wherein said particles are comprised of SiO.sub.2. 13. A light emitting device as in claim 10, wherein said particles are comprised of Al.sub.2 O.sub.3. 14. A light emitting device as in claim 9, wherein said polymeric material is comprised of PPV. 15. A light emitting device as in claim 9, wherein at least one of said electrodes is substantially transparent to the emitted light. 16. A light emitting device as in claim 9, wherein at least one of said electrodes is comprised of indium-tin-oxide. 17. A light emitting device as in claim 9, wherein said sites are comprised of voids. 