An apparatus for compliant positioning of an object during an assembly operation wherein the apparatus includes a base plate, a locator plate for mounting an object such as a clamp or a tool spaced from the base plate and a plurality of linear actuators connected between the base plate the locator plate by universal joints providing six degrees of freedom of movement. A control is connected to the actuators for selectively moving the locator plate to a predetermined position relative to the base plate for contacting a component to be assembled with an object mounted on the locator plate. Two or more of the actuators can be mechanically coupled to move the locator plate with less than six degrees of freedom. The control is responsive to a force applied to the locator plate through the object during assembly of the component for actuating the linear actuators to change the applied force.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for positioning an object during an assembly operation comprising: a base plate; a locator plate for mounting an object; a plurality of linear actuators each having a lower end pivotally attached to said base plate in a first predetermined pattern and an upper end pivotally attached to said locator plate in a second predetermined pattern, said lower and upper ends of each said linear actuator being movable relative to one another along a predetermined linear path to move said locator plate relative to said base plate with six degrees of freedom; and a control means connected to said linear actuators for selectively actuating said linear actuators to move said locator plate to a predetermined position relative to said base plate for contacting a component to be assembled with an object mounted on said locator plate, said control means being responsive to a force applied to said locator plate during contact between the object and the component for actuating said linear actuators to change the applied force. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of linear actuators is six linear actuators. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said first predetermined pattern and said second predetermined pattern are each generally triangular. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said first predetermined pattern is larger than said second predetermined pattern. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1 including a plurality of base pivot joints, each said base pivot joint being connected between said base plate and said lower end of an associated one of said linear actuators, and a plurality of locator pivot joints, each said locator pivot joint being connected between said locator plate and said upper end of an associated one of said linear actuators. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said base pivot joints and said locator pivot joints are two axis universal joints. 7. The apparatus according to 6 wherein said first predetermined pattern is generally triangular, said base pivot joints being arranged impairs with a midpoint of each said base pivot joint pair forming a point of said generally triangular first predetermined pattern, and said second predetermined pattern is generally triangular, said locator pivot joints being arranged in pairs with a midpoint of each said locator pivot joint pair forming a point of said generally triangular second pattern predetermined pattern. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said base pivot joints are two axis universal joints and said locator pivot joints are formed as a pair of three axis universal joints having two common axes and two independent axes. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said linear actuators are ball screw linear actuators having a brake for preventing back driving, said brake being connected to said control means and said control means being responsive to said feedback signals releasing said brake to change the applied force. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1 including feedback means coupled to said linear actuators and connected to said control means and being responsive to the force applied to said locator plate during contact between the object and the component for generating feedback signals representing the applied force to said control means, said control means being responsive to said feedback signals for actuating said linear actuators to change the applied force. 11. The apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said feedback means includes force sensing means measuring at least one of six generalized force components X, Y, Z, M.sub.x, M.sub.y and M.sub.z in a generalized cartesian coordinate system associated with said base plate and said locator plate. 12. The apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said feedback means includes a plurality of position encoders, each said position encoder being coupled to an associated one of said actuators for generating an output signal representing movement of said associated actuator as one of said feedback signals. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said encoders are linear encoders. 14. The apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said actuators are screw type, back drivable, linear actuators and said encoders are rotary encoders coupled for rotation by said actuators. 