A displacement sensor measures displacement or distance in a plurality of orthogonal directions. In one embodiment, the present invention comprises an apparatus for determining a distance to an object. The apparatus includes a sensor housing, an optical source, an optical detector, and a means for selectively redirecting incident and reflected light. In particular, the optical source is affixed to the sensor housing and generates an incident light beam. The optical detector is also affixed to the sensor housing and detects a reflected light beam, said reflected light beam comprising a portion of the incident light beam reflected off of an object to be measured. The optical detector is further operable to generate an information signal containing information pertaining to one or more characteristics of the reflected light beam. The means for selectively redirecting the incident and reflected light beam redirects the light beams in a plurality of orthogonal directions with respect to the sensor housing, thereby allowing the apparatus to determine information pertaining to the object, such as the distance thereto, in a plurality of orthogonal directions with respect to the sensor housing.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for determining information pertaining to one or more objects, the apparatus comprising: a) a sensor housing; b) a linear sensor affixed to the sensor housing, said linear sensor operable to transmit an incident light beam to a point on at least one of the one or more objects, detect a reflected light beam, said reflected light beam comprising a portion of the incident light beam reflected off of the at least one object, and generate an information signal containing information pertaining to the at least one object based on detected reflected light beam; c) means operably connected to the sensor housing for selectively redirecting the incident and reflected light beam in a plurality of orthogonal directions with respect to the sensor housing, thereby allowing the apparatus to determine information pertaining to the at least one object, wherein the at least one object is disposed in any of the plurality of orthogonal directions with respect to the sensor housing. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the linear sensor is further operable to determine the distance to the at least one object based upon the information signal. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the linear sensor further comprises a laser operable to generate the transmitted incident light beam. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means for selectively redirecting the incident and reflected light beam includes at least one movable mirror. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means for selectively redirecting the incident and reflected light beam includes at least two movable mirrors and is operable to selectively redirect the incident and reflected light such that incident and reflected light may be directed in at least three orthogonal directions. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising: e) at least one bracket connected to each of the at least one movable mirror; f) a pivot axis connected to each bracket and rotatably connected to the sensor housing; and g) a means for partially rotating each pivot axis to effectuate movement of each of the at least one movable mirror. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a processing circuit operable to cause the means for selectively redirecting the incident and reflected light beam to selectively redirect the indecent and reflected light beam in a first orthogonal direction. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a processing circuit operable to: receive a first information signal from the linear sensor, said first information signal containing information pertaining a first of said one or more objects; cause the means for selectively redirecting the incident and reflected light beam to selectively redirect the incident and reflected light beam in a second orthogonal direction; receive a second information signal from the linear sensor, said second information signal containing information pertaining to a second of said on or more objects; determine a location of an intersection between the first object and the second object using the first information signal and the second information signal. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a processing circuit operable to receive a first information signal from the linear sensor, said first information signal containing information pertaining a first of said one or more objects; cause the means for selectively redirecting the incident and reflected light beam to selectively redirect the incident and reflected light beam in a second orthogonal direction; receive a second information signal from the linear sensor, said second information signal containing information pertaining to a second of said on or more objects; cause the means for selectively redirecting the incident and reflected light beam to selectively redirect the incident and reflected light beam in a third orthogonal direction; receive a third information signal from the linear sensor, said third information signal containing information pertaining to a third of said on or more objects; determine a location of an intersection between the first object, the second object, and the third object using the first information signal, the second information signal, and the third information signal. 10. An apparatus for determining a distance to an object, the apparatus comprising: a) a sensor housing; b) an optical source affixed to the sensor housing for generating an incident light beam; c) an optical detector affixed to the sensor housing for detecting a reflected light beam, said reflected light beam comprising a portion of the incident light beam reflected off of an object to be measured, the said optical detector operable degenerate an information signal containing information pertaining to one or more characteristics of the reflected light beam; d) means for selectively redirecting the incident and reflected light beam in a plurality of orthogonal directions with respect to the sensor housing, thereby allowing the apparatus to determine the distance to the object, wherein the object is disposed in any of the plurality of orthogonal directions with respect to the sensor housing; and e) a processing circuit operably connected to control the means for selectively redirecting the incident and reflected light beam. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the optical source comprises a laser. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the optical detector is operable to generate an information signal containing information representative of a distance to an object. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the means for selectively redirecting the incident and reflected light includes at least one movable mirror. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising: f) at least one bracket connected to each of the at least one movable mirror; g) a pivot axis connected to each bracket and rotatably connected to the sensor housing; and h) a means for partially rotating each pivot axis to effectuate movement of each of the at least one movable mirror. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the means for partially rotating each pivot axis comprises a pneumatic cylinder. 16. A method of determining the location of an intersection between a plurality of surfaces, the method comprising: a) positioning a displacement sensor in a first identified location and orientation with respect to the plurality of surfaces; b) taking a first displacement measurement with respect to a first surface of the plurality of surfaces in a first direction using the displacement sensor; c) taking a second displacement measurement with respect to a second surface of the plurality of surfaces in a second direction using the displacement sensor; and d) determining a location of the intersection between the plurality of surfaces with respect to the first identified location and orientation of the displacement sensor using the first displacement measurement and the second displacement measurement. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising, after step c), taking a third displacement measurement with respect to a third surface of the plurality of surfaces in a third direction using the displacement sensor, and wherein step d) further comprises determining a location of the intersection between the plurality of surfaces with respect to the first identified location and orientation of the displacement sensor using the first displacement measurement, the second displacement measurement, and the third displacement measurement. 18. The method of claim 16 further comprising, after step c): positioning the displacement sensor in a second identified location and orientation with respect to the first and second surfaces; taking a third displacement measurement with respect to the first surface in the first direction using the displacement sensor; taking a fourth displacement measurement with respect to the second surface in the second direction using the displacement sensor; positioning the displacement sensor in a third identified location and orientation with respect to the first and second surfaces; taking a fifth displacement measurement with respect to the first surface in the first direction using the displacement sensor; and taking a sixth displacement measurement with respect to the second surface in the second direction using the displacement sensor; and wherein step d) further comprises determining the location of the intersection using the first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth displacement measurements and the first, second and third identified locations. 19. The method of claim 16 further comprising, after step c): taking a third displacement measurement with respect to a third surface of the plurality of surfaces in a third direction using the displacement sensor; positioning the displacement sensor in a second identified location and orientation with respect to the plurality of surfaces; taking a fourth displacement measurement with respect to the first surface in the first direction using the displacement sensor; taking a fifth displacement measurement with respect to the second surface in the second direction using the displacement sensor; taking a sixth displacement measurement with respect to the third surface in the third direction using the displacement sensor; positioning the displacement sensor in a third identified location and orientation with respect to the plurality of surfaces; taking a seventh displacement measurement with respect to the first surface in the first direction using the displacement sensor; and taking an eighth displacement measurement with respect to the second surface in the second direction using the displacement sensor; taking an ninth displacement measurement with respect to the third surface in the third direction using the displacement sensor; and wherein step d) further comprises determining the location of the intersection using the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth displacement measurements and the first, second and third identified locations. 20. The method of claim 16 wherein step b) further comprises, transmitting a first incident light beam to a point on the first surface and detecting a first reflected light beam, the first reflected light beam comprising a portion of the first incident light beam reflected off of the first surface; and generating the first displacement measurement based on the detected first reflected light beam. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein step c) further comprises, transmitting a second incident light beam to a point on the second surface and detecting a second reflected light beam, the second reflected light beam comprising a portion of the second incident light beam reflected off of the second surface; and generating the second displacement measurement based on the detected second reflected light beam. 