A method and apparatus for in-situ laser welding of a hemmed joint are applicable for, among other things, production of vehicle doors having inner and outer panels to be joined. In a preferred method, the laser welding of a hemmed joint is carried out while a stable condition is maintained between the inner and outer panels. Locating members of a hemming machine are engaged with the metal sheets to be joined and a compressive force is applied to the panels. A plurality of welding units may be sequentially or simultaneously controlled by a computer. The apparatus includes a first portion for vertically locating the hemmed joint and a second portion for horizontally locating the hemmed joint.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between a pair of metal sheets within a hemming machine having an upper shoe and a lower die, the method comprising the steps of: placing the pair of metal sheets between the upper die and the lower die of the hemming machine; providing a welding unit having a horizontally extending finger and a vertically extending compliant roller; horizontally positioning said welding unit with respect to the pair of metal sheets by engaging one of the metal sheets with said horizontally extending finger; vertically positioning said welding unit with respect to the pair of metal sheets by engaging said compliant roller with the other of the pair of metal sheets; forming a hemmed joint between the pair of metal sheets; and laser welding said hemmed joint while maintaining a stable condition between the pair of metal sheets. 2. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: attaching a laser beam focusing head to said welding unit; interconnecting said laser beam focusing head with a laser beam source; and computer controlling delivery of said laser beam to said laser beam focusing head. 3. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint of claim 1 further including the step of applying a compression force to the pair of metal sheets. 4. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint of claim 1, wherein the step of horizontally positioning said welding unit includes the step of downwardly displacing said upper die from an upper position to an intermediate position. 5. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint of claim 4, wherein the step of forming said hemmed joint between said pair of metal sheets includes the step of downwardly displacing said upper die from said intermediate position to a lower position. 6. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint of claim 5, further including the step of upwardly displacing said upper die from said lower position to said intermediate position, said step of upwardly displacing said upper die from said lower position to said intermediate position occurring simultaneously with the step of laser welding said hemmed joint. 7. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint of claim 1, wherein the step of laser welding said hemmed joint includes the step of: providing said welding unit between a first position interbetween said upper and lower dies and a second position retracted therefrom. 8. A method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between an inner panel and outer panel of a vehicle door, the method comprising the steps of: providing a welding unit; placing the inner and outer panels between an upper die and a lower die of a hemming machine; creating a stable condition between said inner and outer panels by engaging the inner and outer panels with a plurality of locating members; forming a hemmed joint between said inner and outer panels; and laser welding said hemmed joint while maintaining said stable condition between the inner and outer panels; wherein said step of creating a stable condition includes the steps of horizontally positioning the welding unit with respect to the inner panel and the outer panel by engaging one of the inner panel and outer panel with a horizontally extending finger and vertically positioning said welding unit with respect to the inner panel and the outer panel by engaging a compliant roller with the other of the inner and outer panels. 9. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between an inner panel and an outer panel of a vehicle door of claim 8, wherein said step of creating a stable condition between the inner and outer panels further includes the step of applying a compressive force to the inner and outer panels. 10. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between an inner panel and an outer panel of a vehicle door of claim 9, wherein the step forming a hemmed joint between said inner and outer panels includes the step of downwardly displacing said upper die from said intermediate position to a lower position. 11. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between an inner panel and an outer panel of a vehicle door of claim 10, further including the step of upwardly displacing said upper die from said lower position to said intermediate position, said step of upwardly displacing said upper die from said lower position to said intermediate position occurring simultaneously with the step of laser welding said hemmed joint. 12. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between an inner panel and an outer panel of a vehicle door of claim 8, wherein the step of engaging the inner and outer panels with a plurality of locating members includes the step of downwardly displacing said upper shoe from an upper position to an intermediate position. 13. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between an inner panel and an outer panel of a vehicle door of claim 8, wherein the step of laser welding said hemmed joint includes the step of: moving said welding unit between a first position interbetween said upper and lower dies and a second position retracted therefrom. 14. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between an inner panel and an outer panel of a vehicle door of claim 8, wherein the step of laser welding said hemmed joint includes the steps of: proving a plurality of welding units about the perimeter of the vehicle door, each of said plurality of welding units being movable between a first position interbetween said upper and lower dies and a second position retracted therefrom; and horizontally and vertically locating said welding unit to said second position. 15. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between an inner panel and an outer panel of a vehicle door of claim 14, further including the step of interconnecting each of said plurality of welding units to a laser beam source through a fiber optic cable. 16. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between an inner panel and an outer panel of a vehicle door of claim 15, further comprising the step of computer controlling delivery of a laser beam to each of said plurality of welding units. 17. An arrangement for in-situ laser welding of a hemmed joint within a hemming machine, the hemmed joint formed between a pair of metal panels, the hemming machine having an upper shoe translatable between an upper position, an intermediate position and a lower position, the upper shoe carrying an upper die and at least one locating element, the hemming machine further including a lower die, the arrangement for in-situ laser welding comprising: at least one welding unit operatively interconnected with the hemming machine for movement between a first position interbetween the upper die and the lower die and a second position displaced therefrom; a laser beam source; a focusing head carried by each of said at least one welding unit, said focusing head interconnected to said laser beam source; and a computer controller for controlling delivery of said laser beam source to said focusing head of each of said at least one welding unit such that said laser beam source is delivered to said focusing head when the upper shoe is between the lower position and the intermediate position; said at least one welding unit including a locating member having a first element for horizontally positioning said welding unit with respect to the hemmed joint and a second element for vertically positioning said welding unit with respect to said hemmed joint, said locating member including a horizontally extending finger for engaging one of the pair of metal panels and a vertically extending compliant roller for engaging the other of the pair of metal panels. 18. A method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between a pair of metal sheets, the method comprising the steps of: providing a hemming machine having an upper die and a lower die; operatively associating a welding unit with said hemming machine; placing the pair of metal sheets between the upper and lower dies of said hemming machine; forming a hemmed joint between said pair of metal sheets; moving said welding unit independently from the upper and lower dies to a first position interbetween the upper and lower dies; and laser welding said hemmed joint with said welding unit in said first position. 19. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between a pair of metal sheets of claim 18, wherein said step of moving said welding unit independently from the upper and lower dies to a first position includes the step of adjusting said welding unit in a horizontal direction. 20. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between a pair of metal sheets of claim 19, wherein said step of moving said welding unit independently from the upper and lower dies to a first position includes the steps of: horizontally positioning the welding unit with respect to the hemmed joint by engaging one of the pair of metal sheets with a horizontally extending finger and vertically positioning said welding unit with respect to the hemmed joint by engaging a compliant roller with the other of the pair of metal sheets. 21. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between a pair of metal sheets of claim 19, further comprising the step of applying a compression force to the pair of metal sheets. 22. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between a pair of metal sheets of claim 19, wherein the step of forming said hemmed joint between said pair of metal sheets includes the step of downwardly displacing said upper die from said intermediate position to a lower position. 23. The method of producing a laser welded hemmed joint between a pair of metal sheets of claim 22, further including the step of upwardly displacing said upper die from said lower position to said intermediate position, said step of upwardly displacing said upper die from said lower position to said intermediate position occurring simultaneously with the step of laser welding said hemmed joint. 