GPS satellite (4) ranging signals (6) received (32) on comm1, and DGPS auxiliary range correction signals and pseudolite carrier phase ambiguity resolution signals (8) from a fixed known earth base station (10) received (34) on comm2, at one of a plurality of vehicles/aircraft/automobiles (2) are computer processed (36) to continuously determine the one's kinematic tracking position on a pathway (14) with centimeter accuracy. That GPS-based position is communicated with selected other status information to each other one of the plurality of vehicles (2), to the one station (10), and/or to one of a plurality of control centers (16), and the one vehicle receives therefrom each of the others' status information and kinematic tracking position. Objects (22) are detected from all directions (300) by multiple supplemental mechanisms, e.g., video (54), radar/lidar (56), laser and optical scanners. Data and information are computer processed and analyzed (50,52,200,452) in neural networks (132, FIGS. 6-8) in the one vehicle to identify, rank, and evaluate collision hazards/objects, an expert operating response to which is determined in a fuzzy logic associative memory (484) which generates control signals which actuate a plurality of control systems of the one vehicle in a coordinated manner to maneuver it laterally and longitudinally to avoid each collision hazard, or, for motor vehicles, when a collision is unavoidable, to minimize injury or damage therefrom. The operator is warned by a heads up display and other modes and may override. An automotive auto-pilot mode is provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer controlled collision avoidance and warning method comprising the steps of: receiving continuously from a network of satellites on a first communication link at one of a plurality of automobiles GPS ranging signals for initially accurately determining the one's position on a highway on a surface of the earth, receiving continuously at the one automobile on a second communication link from one of a plurality of stations having a known fixed position on the surface of the earth DGPS auxiliary range signals, including correction signals for correcting propagation delay errors in, the GPS ranging signals and pseudolite signals for assistance in making further measurements for still further improving the accuracy of the GPS ranging signals and of determining the one's position on the highway on the surface of the earth, determining continuously at the one automobile from the GPS, DGPS, and pseudolite signals the one's kinematic tracking position on the surface of the earth with centimeter accuracy, communicating the one's status information including the kinematic tracking position to each other one of the plurality of automobiles and to the one station or one of a plurality of control centers, and receiving at the one automobile each of the others' of the plurality of automobiles status information including the others' kinematic tracking position, analyzing the kinematic tracking positions and status information to identify and evaluate each potential collision hazard relative to the one automobile, determining in a fuzzy logic associative memory the one's expert driving response relative to each collision hazard generating expert driving response control signals for actuating a plurality of control systems of the one automobile in a coordinated manner, intelligibly indicating a warning of a collision hazard, and coordinately actuating the control systems of the one automobile with the control signals to operate the one automobile laterally and longitudinally in real time sufficiently in due time to avoid each collision hazard or, when a collision is unavoidable, then to minimize any injury or damage therefrom. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the pseudolite signals include carrier phase signals and the further measurements include ambiguity resolution measurements. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the first communication link is a GPS receiver and the second communication link is a GPS transceiver each operating on separate predetermined frequencies. 4. The method of claim 1 including a third satellite communication link for auxiliary control information. 5. The method of claim 1 including a cellular telephone link for auxiliary control information. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the determining continuously the one's kinematic position step further comprises the step of: determining the one's attitude relative to a predetermined direction over the earth's surface using multiple antennae supported on the extremities of the one automobile and phase comparing the GPS signals simultaneously received at the antennae. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the attitude includes yaw and roll about mutually orthogonol axes of the automobile. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the analyzing step includes analyzing the one's attitude, and wherein the step of determining the one's expert driving response further comprises the step of: attitude compensating the expert driving response. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the communicating step further comprises the step of: communicating on the second communication link. 10. The method of claim 4 wherein the communicating step further comprises the step of: communicating on a third control communication link via a separate control transceiver in the one automobile. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the kinematic tracking position information includes position, velocity and acceleration vectors. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the status information includes known obstacles which can be potential hazards to the one automobile. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the received information is received from another one or each other one of the plurality of automobiles, the one station, the control center or a communications satellite. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the communicating step further comprises the step of: communicating using a speech synthesizer computer which recognizes the voice of the one automobile's operator. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of: displaying on a heads up display in the one automobile a response to the one operator's speech received in the one automobile. 16. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: detecting multiple objects in all directions relative to the one automobile, wherein the analyzing step includes analyzing all objects and ranking all potential hazards and objects for determining the most effective collision avoidance strategy, and wherein the step of determining the one's expert driving response further comprises the step of: determining with said fuzzy logic associative memory and fuzzy logic algorithms one's expert driving response relative to each object which is a potential collision hazard. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the detecting step includes detecting said objects by scanning with one or more television cameras supported on the one automobile, and wherein the analyzing step includes processing and analyzing digital signals indicative of video images detected by the one or more television cameras. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the detecting step includes detecting said objects by scanning with one or more radar-based ranging mechanisms supported on the one automobile, wherein the analyzing step includes processing and analyzing digital signals indicative of the bearing, distance, and elevation to the objects detected by the one or more radar-based ranging mechanisms. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein the detecting step further comprises: detecting said objects on or about the roadway in the vicinity of the one automobile by scanning a motion sensing device embedded in the roadway and transmitting to the one automobile signals indicative of the bearing, distance and elevation of the detected objects relative to a reference. 20. The method of claim 16 wherein said objects include fixed or moving, or known or unknown obstacles, people, bicycles, animals, signs, terrain, roadway features and turns. 21. The method of claim 16 wherein the communicating step includes communicating the one's status information describing selected ones of the detected objects, and the receiving step includes receiving the others' status information describing selected ones of the others' detected objects. 22. The method of claim 1 wherein the analyzing step further comprises: analyzing inputs from the one's speedometer, environmental inputs, and inputs describing characteristics of the operator of the one automobile. 23. The method of claim 1 wherein the analyzing step further comprises the step of: calculating a collision vector for each collision hazard. 24. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of determining the one's expert driving response includes determining a collision avoidance maneuver. 25. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of intelligibly indicating a warning further comprises the step of: warning the operator of the one automobile of said expert driving response, and wherein the coordinately actuating step further comprises coordinately actuating the control systems only when a collision remains imminent. 26. The method of claim 1 wherein the warning indicating step further comprises the step of: visually indicating the existence of a hazardous condition. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the step of visually indicating further comprises the step of: displaying a visually perceptible symbol on a windshield of the one automobile. 28. The method of claim 26 wherein the step of visually indicating further comprises the step of: displaying the relative position and motion between the one automobile and any collision hazard. 29. The method of claim 1 wherein the warning indicating step further comprises the step of: repeatedly actuating a headlight system, a horn system, or a collision warning light system. 30. The method of claim 1 wherein the warning indicating step further comprises the step of: generating sounds of select speech of warning of a hazardous condition. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein the generating sounds of select speech step further comprises the step of: recommending an expert driving response. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein the recommending an expert driving response step further comprises the step of: synthetically generating one of the following words of speech depending on the kind of expert driving response: "slow down", "stop", "swerve left", and "swerve right". 33. The method of claim 1 wherein the coordinately actuating step further comprises the step of: operating one or more of the following systems depending on the kind of expert driving response determined by the fuzzy logic associative memory and fuzzy logic algorithms: a brake, acceleration, steering, horn, light, windshield wiper, seat, mirror, air conditioning, heater, defogger and communication system. 34. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: repeatedly repeating the communicating step. 35. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: communicating an emergency call for help in the event of an unavoidable collision. 36. A computer controlled collision avoidance and warning system comprising: a receiver supported in one of a plurality of automobiles for receiving continuously from a network of satellites on a first communication link GPS ranging signals for initially accurately determining the one's position on a highway on a surface of the earth, a receiver supported in the one automobile for receiving continuously on a second communication link from one of a plurality of stations having a known fixed position on the surface of the earth DGPS auxiliary ranging signals for improving GPS ranging accuracy and pseudolite signals for assistance in making further measurements for still further improving the accuracy of the GPS ranging signals and of determining the one's position on the highway on the surface of the earth, a processor supported in the one automobile for determining continuously at the one automobile from the GPS, DGPS, and pseudolite signals the one's kinematic tracking position on the surface of the earth with centimeter accuracy, a transceiver for communicating the one's status information including the kinematic tracking position to each other one of the plurality of automobiles and to the one station or one of a plurality of control centers, and receiving at the one automobile each of the others' of the plurality of automobiles status information including the others' kinematic tracking position, a detector supported on the one automobile for detecting multiple objects in all directions relative to the one automobile, a processor supported in the one automobile for analyzing in a neural network all of the kinematic tracking position data, detected objects data and status information to identify and evaluate each potential collision hazard and object relative to the one automobile for determining the most effective collision avoidance strategy, determining with a fuzzy logic associative memory and fuzzy logic control the one's expert driving response relative to each collision hazard and object, and generating expert driving response fuzzy logic control signals for actuating a plurality of control systems of the one automobile in a coordinated manner, an attention device for intelligibly indicating a warning of a collision hazard at least to the operator of the one automobile, and an actuator for coordinately operating the control systems of the one automobile in response to the control signals to maneuver the one automobile laterally and longitudinally as necessary in real time sufficiently in due time to avoid each collision hazard or, when a collision is unavoidable, then to minimize any injury or damage therefrom. 37. The system of claim 36 further comprising: multiple antennae supported on the extremities of the one automobile for determining the one automobile's attitude relative to a predetermined direction over the earth's surface, and the processor phase comparing the GPS signals simultaneously received at the antennae, analyzing the one's attitude, and attitude compensating the expert driving response. 38. The system of claim 36 wherein the attention device is a heads up display in the one automobile for indicating the expert driving response. 39. A GPS-based collision avoidance method comprising the steps of: receiving continuously from a network of satellites on a first communication link at one of a plurality of vehicles GPS ranging signals for determining the one's position relative to a surface of the earth, receiving continuously at the one vehicle on a second communication link from one of a plurality of stations having a known fixed position on the surface of the earth DGPS auxiliary range correction signals for correcting propagation delay errors in the GPS ranging signals and pseudolite signals for assistance in making further measurements for still further improving the accuracy of the GPS ranging signals and of determining the one's position relative the surface of the earth, determining continuously at the one vehicle from the GPS, DGPS, and pseudolite signals the one's kinematic tracking position relative to the surface of the earth with centimeter accuracy, determining the one's attitude relative to a predetermined direction over the earth's surface using multiple antennae supported on the extremities of the one vehicle coupled to the GPS receiver and phase comparing the GPS signals simultaneously received at the antennae, communicating the one's status information including the kinematic tracking position to each other one of the plurality of vehicles and to the one station or one of a plurality of control centers, and receiving at the one vehicle each of the others' of the plurality of vehicles status information including the others' kinematic tracking position, analyzing in a neural network the one's attitude, and all of the kinematic tracking positions and status information to identify and evaluate each potential collision hazard relative to the one vehicle, determining in a fuzzy logic associative memory the one's attitude compensated expert driving response relative to each collision hazard, generating expert driving response control signals for actuating a plurality of control systems of the one vehicle in a coordinated manner, and coordinately actuating the control systems of the one vehicle with the control signals to operate the one vehicle laterally and longitudinally in real time sufficiently in due time to avoid each collision hazard. 40. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of intelligibly indicating a warning further comprises the step of: communicating on a communication link a warning of an imminent collision. 41. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of intelligibly indicating a warning further comprises the step of: flashing exterior warning lights. 42. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of intelligibly indicating a warning further comprises the step of: sounding an alarm audible outside of the automobile. 43. A computer controlled collision avoidance and warning method comprising the steps of: receiving continuously from a network of satellites on a first communication link at one of a plurality of vehicles GPS ranging signals for initially accurately determining the one's position on a surface of the earth, receiving continuously at the one vehicle on a second communication link from one of a plurality of stations having a known fixed position on the surface of the earth DGPS auxiliary ranging signals for improving GPS ranging accuracy and pseudolite signals for assistance in making further measurements for still further improving the accuracy of the GPS ranging signals and of determining the one's position on the surface of the earth, determining continuously at the one vehicle from the GPS, DGPS, and pseudolite signals the one's kinematic tracking position on the surface of the earth with centimeter accuracy, communicating the one's status information including the kinematic tracking position to each other one of the plurality of vehicles and to the one station or one of a plurality of control centers, and receiving at the one vehicle each of the others' of the plurality of vehicles status information including the others' kinematic tracking position, analyzing the kinematic tracking positions and status information to identify and evaluate each potential collision hazard relative to the one vehicle, determining with a fuzzy logic associative memory and fuzzy logic algorithms the one's expert driving response relative to each collision hazard generating expert driving response control signals for actuating a plurality of control systems of the one vehicle in a coordinated manner, intelligibly indicating a warning of a collision hazard, and coordinately actuating the control systems of the one vehicle with the control signals to operate the one vehicle laterally and longitudinally in real time sufficiently in due time to avoid each collision hazard or, when a collision is unavoidable, then to minimize any injury or damage therefrom. 44. A computer controlled collision avoidance and warning method comprising the steps of: receiving continuously from a network of satellites on a first communication link at one of a plurality of vehicles GPS ranging signals for initially accurately determining the one's position on a pathway on a surface of the earth, receiving continuously at the one vehicle on a second communication link from one of a plurality of stations having a known fixed position on the surface of the earth DGPS auxiliary ranging signals for still further improving the accuracy of the GPS ranging signals, determining continuously at the one vehicle from the GPS and DGPS signals the one's kinematic tracking position on the surface of the earth, communicating the one's status information including the kinematic tracking position to each other one of the plurality of vehicles and to the one station or one of a plurality of control centers, and receiving at the one vehicle each of the others' of the plurality of vehicles status information including the others' kinematic tracking position, determining in a fuzzy logic associative memory the one's expert driving response relative to each collision hazard, generating expert driving response control signals for actuating a plurality of control systems of the one vehicle in a coordinated manner, intelligibly indicating a warning of a collision hazard, and coordinately actuating the control systems of the one vehicle with the control signals to operate the one vehicle laterally and longitudinally in real time sufficiently in due time to avoid each collision hazard or, when a collision is unavoidable, then to minimize any injury or damage therefrom. 