An integrated modular multiple chamber vacuum processing system is disclosed. The system includes a load lock, may include an external cassette elevator, and an internal load lock wafer elevator, and also includes stations about the periphery of the load lock for connecting one, two or several vacuum process chambers to the load lock chamber. A robot is mounted within the load lock and utilizes a concentric shaft drive system connected to an end effector via a dual four-bar link mechanism for imparting selected R--.THETA. movement to the blade to load and unload wafers at the external elevator, internal elevator and individual process chambers. The system is uniquely adapted for enabling various types of IC processing including etch, deposition, sputtering and rapid thermal annealing chambers, thereby providing the opportunity for multiple step, sequential processing using different processes.
Claims Having thus described preferred and alternative embodiments of our multiple chamber integrated process system, what is claimed is: 1. An integrated workpiece vacuum processing system comprising: a vacuum transfer chamber having a closable entrance; a first vacuum processing chamber mounted to said transfer chamber and communicating therewith by means of an opening in said processing chamber, said first processing chamber adapted to perform a process selected from the group consisting of chemical vapor deposition, etching, heat treatment and sputtering on a workpiece, said first processing chamber fitted with a workpiece support; a second vacuum processing chamber mounted to said transfer chamber and communicating therewith by means of an opening in said second processing chamber, said second processing chamber adapted to perform a process selected from the group consisting of chemical vapor deposition, etching, heat treatment and sputtering on a workpiece, said second processing chamber fitted with a workpiece support and performing a different process than said first chamber; an internal elevator in said transfer chamber having a number of workpiece mounting positions and being adapted for selectively moving said workpiece mounting positions to a first selected position internal to and adjacent to the transfer chamber entrance; and a robot in said transfer chamber to deliver said workpieces to said workpiece support in any of said first and second processing chambers for processing. 2. An integrated workpiece vacuum processing system according to claim 1 wherein said robot includes a workpiece support blade. 3. An integrated workpiece vacuum processing system according to claim 2 further comprising an external elevator mounted outside the transfer chamber, said external elevator having a number of workpiece mounting positions and being movable for selectively locating said workpiece mounting positions at a selected load lock position external to and adjacent to the transfer chamber entrance for transferring a workpiece to and from said workpiece support blade. 4. An integrated workpiece vacuum processing system according to claim 3 wherein said robot is adapted to retrieve a workpiece from said external load lock chamber elevator and deliver it to a workpiece mounting position on said internal elevator. 5. An integrated workpiece vacuum processing system according to claim 2 wherein said workpiece support blade has a source of vacuum directly connected thereto. 6. An integrated workpiece vacuum processing system according to claim 1 wherein said internal elevator is fitted with a plate intermediate first and second groups of workpiece positions for sealing said first group of workpieces within the transfer chamber and isolating said second group of workpieces from the transfer chamber. 7. An integrated workpiece vacuum processing system according to claim 6 wherein said transfer chamber is fitted with a gas inlet for supplying a gas to condition said first group of workpieces. 8. An integrated workpiece vacuum processing chamber according to claim 1 wherein one of said processing chambers is an etching chamber and another of said processing chambers is a chemical vapor deposition chamber. 