An electrophoresis apparatus includes a substrate (34) which supports a filling region (22) and a plurality of electrophoresis lanes (20). The filling region (22) communicates a sample to the plurality of electrophoresis lanes (20). A method of electrophoresis includes providing the above-described electrophoresis apparatus, applying a sample to the filling region (22), the plurality of electrophoresis lanes (20) receiving the sample from the filling region (22), and electrophoresing the sample in the plurality of electrophoresis lanes (20).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrophoresis apparatus comprising: a substrate; a first filling region supported by the substrate; a first plurality of electrophoresis lanes supported by the substrate, the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes in communication with the first filling region; a second filling region supported by the substrate; and a second plurality of electrophoresis lanes supported by the substrate, the second plurality of electrophoresis lanes in communication with the second filling region; wherein the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes is adjacent the second plurality of electrophoresis lanes; and wherein a distance between the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes and the second plurality of electrophoresis lanes is greater than a distance between each adjacent pair of the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes. 2. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one molecular sensor associated with the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes. 3. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 2 wherein the at least one molecular sensor is integrated with the substrate. 4. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 2 wherein the at least one molecular sensor includes a first electrode and a second electrode proximate to an electrophoresis lane of the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes. 5. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 4 wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are located at opposite sides of the electrophoresis lane. 6. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a first insulating layer which insulates the first electrode from the electrophoresis lane and a second insulating layer which insulates the second electrode from the electrophoresis lane. 7. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 5 wherein the first electrode and the second electrode abut with an interior portion of the electrophoresis lane. 8. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 2 wherein the at least one molecular sensor includes a plurality of molecular sensors distributed along the electrophoresis lane. 9. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 2 wherein the at least one molecular sensor includes a first molecular sensor and a second molecular sensor, the electrophoresis apparatus further comprising a bridge circuit which produces a signal based upon a difference between a first impedance sensed by the first molecular sensor and a second impedance sensed by the second molecular sensor. 10. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of molecular sensors, the plurality of molecular sensors including a respective molecular sensor for each of the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes. 11. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 10 wherein the plurality of molecular sensors is integrated with the substrate. 12. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 1 wherein the substrate defines a plurality of channels which provide the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes. 13. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 12 wherein the plurality of channels are formed during molding of the substrate. 14. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 12 wherein the plurality of channels are etched into the substrate. 15. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a heat sink integrated with the substrate, the heat sink to equalize temperatures of the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes with temperatures of the second plurality of electrophoresis lanes. 16. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 15 wherein the heat sink is integrated with the substrate at an opposite face relative to a face at which the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes is supported. 17. The electrophoresis apparatus of claim 15 wherein the heat sink includes a thermoelectric member. 18. An electrophoresis apparatus comprising: a substrate; a plurality of electrophoresis lanes supported by the substrate; a filling region supported by the substrate, the filling region having a sample-receiving opening at a first end and openings to the plurality of electrophoresis lanes at a second end; wherein a dimension of the filling region is greater at the sample-receiving opening than at the openings to the plurality of electrophoresis lanes; and wherein an axis defined from the first end to the second end of the filling region is substantially parallel to the plurality of electrophoresis lanes. 19. An electrophoresis apparatus comprising: a substrate; a first filling region defined by the substrate, the first filling region having a first sample-receiving opening at a first sample-receiving end and a first plurality of openings at a first channel-opening end; a first plurality of electrophoresis channels defined by the substrate, the first plurality of electrophoresis channels in communication with the first plurality of openings of the first filling region, the first plurality of electrophoresis channels substantially parallel to a first axis from the first sample-receiving end to the first channel-opening end of the first filling region; a first plurality of molecular sensors including a respective molecular sensor for each of the first plurality of electrophoresis channels; a second filling region defined by the substrate, the second filling region having a second sample-receiving opening at a second sample-receiving end and a second plurality of openings at a second channel-opening end; a second plurality of electrophoresis channels defined by the substrate, the second plurality of electrophoresis channels in communication with the second plurality of openings of the second filling region, the second plurality of electrophoresis channels substantially parallel to a second axis from the second sample-receiving end to the second channel-opening end of the first filling region; wherein the first plurality of electrophoresis channels is adjacent to the second plurality of electrophoresis channels, and a distance between the first plurality of electrophoresis channels and the second plurality of electrophoresis channels is greater than a distance between adjacent pairs of the first plurality of electrophoresis channels; and a second plurality of molecular sensors including a respective molecular sensor for each of the second plurality of electrophoresis channels. 20. A method of electrophoresis, the method comprising the steps of: providing an electrophoresis device having a first filling region, a second filling region adjacent the first filling region, a first plurality of electrophoresis lanes in communication with the first filling region, and a second plurality of electrophoresis lanes in communication with the second filling region and adjacent the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes, wherein a distance between the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes and the second plurality of electrophoresis lanes is greater than a distance between each adjacent pair of the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes and each adjacent pair of the second plurality of electrophoresis lanes; applying a first sample to the first filling region, the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes receiving the first sample from the first filling region; applying a second sample to the second filling region, the second plurality of electrophoresis lanes receiving the second sample from the second filling region; electrophoresing the first sample in the first plurality of electrophoresis lanes; and electrophoresing the second sample in the second plurality of electrophoresis lanes. 21. A method of electrophoresis, the method comprising the steps of: providing an electrophoresis device having a filling region and a plurality of electrophoresis lanes in communication with the filling region, the filling region having a sample-receiving opening at a first end and openings to the plurality of electrophoresis lanes at a second end, wherein a dimension of the filling region is greater at the sample-receiving opening than at the openings to the plurality of electrophoresis lanes, and wherein an axis defined from the first end to the second end of the filling region is substantially parallel to the plurality of electrophoresis lanes; applying a sample to the filling region, the plurality of electrophoresis lanes receiving the sample from the filling region; and electrophoresing the sample in the plurality of electrophoresis lanes. 