A passive constraint device for implementing a programmable virtual constraint surface, comprises one or more non-holonomic kinematic transmission element for coupling velocities of motion and having a steering angle. A user moves the handle of the passive constraint device relative to the virtual surface. A steering motor sets the steering angle of the non-holonomic element in response to the proximity of the handle to the virtual surface. When in contact with the virtual surface, the steering angle is set so as to prohibit any motion which would penetrate the surface. When not in contact with the virtual surface, the steering motor adjusts the steering angle in response to the user's applied forces, to provide apparent freedom of motion to the user.
Claims We claim: 1. A passive constraint device having at least two directional velocities of motion for use in implementing a programmable virtual constraint surface, comprising: non-holonomic kinematic transmission element means for coupling directional velocities of motion of said passive constraint device, said non-holonomic kinematic transmission element having a steering angle for controlling a ratio of said directional velocities of motion; means for controlling the steering angle of said non-holonomic kinematic transmission element means in order to adjust the ratio of said directional velocities of motion; means for allowing a user to manipulate the device relative to a virtual surface; motor means for setting a steering angle of the transmission element means and; means for controlling the steering angle of said non-holonomic kinematic transmission element means to prohibit any motion of the passive constraint device which would penetrate the virtual surface when the device is in contact with the virtual surface, and for adjusting the steering angle in response to forces applied by the user when the device is remote from the virtual surface so as to provide to the user an apparent increased number of degrees of freedom of motion of the device. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said means for controlling comprises feedback servocontroller means for controlling said motor means, said servocontroller means having as inputs force perpendicular to the direction of motion allowed by the transmission element means, velocity of motion tangential to the direction of motion allowed by the transmission element means, and also the present coordinates describing the configuration of the constraint device, present steering angle, and also rate of change of the steering angle, and having as output electrical current to said motor means. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the non-holonomic kinematic transmission element means comprises a wheel which couples translational velocities of motion. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein the wheel travels relative to x-y rails and the wheel couples the velocities in the x direction and y direction. 5. The device of claim 3 wherein the wheels travel on the surface of a cylinder. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein the non-holonomic kinematic transmission element means comprises two wheels which couple translational velocities of motion. 7. The device of claim 6 wherein the wheels travel relative to x-y rails. 8. The device of claim 6 wherein the non-holonomic kinematic transmission element means comprises three wheels which couple translational velocities of motion. 9. The device of claim 8 wherein the wheels travel on a planar surface. 10. The device of claim 8 wherein the wheels contact a sphere. 11. The device of claim 1 wherein the non-holonomic kinematic transmission element means comprises a spherical transmission element confined in contact with six rollers in a cubic arrangement, and which couples rotational velocities of motion of two of the rollers in a ratio set by the steering angle of two other rollers. 12. The device of claim 1 wherein the non-holonomic kinematic transmission element means comprises a spherical transmission element confined in contact with four rollers in a tetrahedral arrangement, and which couples rotational velocities of motion of two of the rollers in a ratio set by the steering angle of the other two rollers. 13. The device of claim 1 wherein said means by which a user can manipulate the device relative to the virtual surface comprises a non-rotatable handle disposed on a platform on which said transmission element means is disposed and driven to rotate by a rotatable steering shaft connected to said motor means. 14. The device of claim 1 wherein said means by which a user can manipulate the device relative to the virtual surface comprises a handle disposed on a platform on which a plurality of said transmission element means are disposed and rotated by respective rotatable steering shafts connected to respective motor means, said handle and platform being rotatable about an axis. 15. The device of claim 14 wherein the element couples the angular velocities of two joints of a two link serial revolute robot, manipulator, or haptic display. 16. The device of claim 14 wherein several elements couple the angular velocities of pairs of joints of a multiple link serial revolute robot, manipulator, or haptic display. 17. The device of claim 1 in which six wheels travel on the surface of a freely rotating cylinder, and in which the wheels couple the translational velocities of six linear stages aligned coaxially with the cylinder, and in which each of the linear stages is coupled via a fixed-length leg to a common platform. 18. The device of claim 1 wherein steering of said transmission element means is supplemented by natural steering of an offset caster. 19. An apparatus comprising: at least one steerable non-holonomic transmission element which couples two or more directional velocities of motion via a steering angle; a motor for adjusting the steering angle of the at least one non-holonomic transmission element; a memory which stores a description of a virtual surface; and a computer for controlling the steering angle of said at least one non-holonomic kinematic transmission element in order to prohibit any motion of the passive constraint device which would penetrate the virtual surface. 20. An apparatus as claimed in claim 19, wherein said computer also controls the steering angle of said at least one non-holonomic kinematic transmission element in response to forces applied by the user when the device is remote from the virtual surface so as to provide to the user an apparent increased number of degrees of freedom of motion of the device when said device is remote from said virtual surface. 21. The device of claim 19, wherein said non-holonomic kinematic transmission element couples translational velocities of motion. 22. The device of claim 19, wherein said non-holonomic kinematic transmission element couples angular velocities of motion. 23. A method for controlling a robotic device having a plurality of joints coupled together by at least one steerable non-holonomic transmission element, comprising: storing a virtual surface; determining the position and speed of the robotic device; measuring the force applied by an operator to the robotic device; adjusting a steering angle of said non-holonomic transmission element so as to prohibit any motion of the robotic device that would penetrate said virtual surface when said robotic device is in contact with said virtual surface; and adjusting a steering angle of said non-holonomic transmission element so as to provide apparent freedom of motion to a user when said robotic device is not in contact with said virtual surface. 24. A method for controlling a robotic device having a plurality of joints coupled together by at least one steerable non-holonomic transmission element, comprising: storing a path to be followed by the robotic device; determining the position and speed of the robotic device; measuring the force applied by an operator to the robotic device; continuously adjusting the steering angle of said non-holonomic transmission element as said robotic device is moved along said path by an operator so that the robotic device will move smoothly along said path. 25. An apparatus comprising: an endpoint movable by an operator in a plurality of directions; at least one non-holonomic transmission element which couples a velocity of said endpoint in one of said directions with a velocity of said endpoint in another of said directions, said nonholonomic kinematic transmission element having a steering angle which controls a ratio of said velocities, whereby mechanically allowed directions of motion of said endpoint are dictated by the steering angle of said at least one non-holonomic transmission element; and a computer, connected to said motor and said at least one non-holonomic transmission element, which controls the mechanically allowed directions of motion through space of the endpoint by adjusting the steering angle of said at least one non-holonomic kinematic transmission element. 