An ion implantation system is described having an ion source coupled to a process chamber, and a workpiece handling assembly having a workpiece support that is mounted within the process chamber. The system implants ions into a photoresist coated workpiece to change the conductivity of the workpiece. An ion beam shield is provided that is positioned between the ion source and the workpiece support during processing to prevent outgassed photoresist from coating portions of the ion source.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed as new and desired to be secured by letters patent is: 1. An ion implantation system for processing a workpiece with a coated surface, comprising an ion source for ionizing selected matter to generate a ribbon-shaped ion beam, a housing defining a process chamber that is fluidly coupled to the ion source, a workpiece handling assembly mounted within the process chamber and having a workpiece support surface for supporting the workpiece within the process chamber during implantation by the ion beam, and an ion beam shield having an aperture sized for allowing the ion beam to pass therethrough, wherein the aperture is sized to accommodate said ribbon beam having an aspect ratio equal to or greater than fifty to one, the ion beam shield being positioned between the support surface of the handling assembly and the ion source during processing for shielding the ion source from residue that is outgassed from the coated surface of the workpiece during implantation. 2. The ion implantation system of claim 1, wherein the ion beam shield has a rough outer surface that effectively increases the surface area thereof to allow greater amounts of the outgassed residue to adhere thereto. 3. The ion implantation system of claim 1, wherein the workpiece is coated with photoresist. 4. The ion implantation system of claim 1, wherein the ion source and the support surface of the workpiece handling assembly is separated by a distance D during processing, and wherein the ion beam shield is separated from the workpiece handling assembly by a distance of about D/2 or less. 5. The ion implantation system of claim 1, further comprising a focusing lens disposed between the ion source and the shield for focusing the ion beam and wherein the shield is disposed at a focal plane of the focussed beam. 6. The ion implantation system of claim 1, wherein the ion beam shield is composed of an inflexible material. 7. The ion implantation system of claim 1, wherein the workpiece handling assembly includes translation means for translating the workpiece in a linear scanning direction during implantation. 8. The ion implantation system of claim 7, wherein the ion implantation system extends along a longitudinal axis, and wherein the ion beam generated by the ion source is directed transverse to the longitudinal axis. 9. The ion implantation system of claim 8, wherein the translation means translates the workpiece through the ion beam in the scanning direction which is disposed generally orthogonal to the ion beam. 10. The ion implantation system of claim 8, wherein the ion beam generated by the ion source and the longitudinal axis form an angle therebetween that is greater than or equal to about 85 degrees. 11. The ion implantation system of claim 1, wherein the system extends along a longitudinal axis, and wherein the ion beam generated by the ion source and the longitudinal axis form an angle therebetween of equal to or greater than about 5 degrees. 12. The ion implantation system of claim 1, wherein the workpiece handling assembly further includes means for moving the position of the support surface relative to the loadlock. 13. The ion implantation system of claim 1, further comprising an end station assembly having a workpiece cassette for storing a plurality of workpieces, and an end effector for transporting the workpieces between the cassette and the loadlock. 14. The ion implantation system of claim 1, further comprising a loadlock forming a loadlock chamber coupled to the process chamber, and temperature control means coupled to the loadlock for disposing at least a portion of the loadlock at a selected temperature. 15. The ion implantation system of claim 1, further comprising a loadlock forming a chamber having a floor, the system further including cooling structure for disposing the chamber floor at a selected temperature to form a cold deck. 16. The ion implantation system of claim 1, further comprising a loadlock forming a chamber having a floor, the system further including vacuum means coupled to the floor for drawing the workpiece into contact therewith when the workpiece is disposed within the chamber, thereby effecting heat transfer from the workpiece to the chamber floor. 17. The ion implantation system of claim 16, wherein the chamber floor has a plurality of vacuum-applying openings formed therein, the openings being in fluid communication with the vacuum means for disposing a substantial portion of the backside of the workpiece in contact with the cooling surface. 18. The ion implantation system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of loadlocks having a top surface and a bottom surface, the loadlocks being axially positioned relative to each other to form a stacked array of loadlocks. 19. An ion beam shield for use in an ion implantation system for processing a workpiece with a coated surface, the ion implantation system comprising an ion source for ionizing selected matter to generate a ribbon-shaped ion beam, a housing defining a process chamber that is fluidly coupled to the ion source, and a workpiece handling assembly mounted within the process chamber and having a workpiece support surface for supporting the workpiece within the process chamber during implantation by the ion beam, wherein the ion beam shield is further characterized as having an aperture sized for allowing the ion beam to pass therethrough and having an aspect ratio equal to or greater than fifty to one, said shield being disposable between the support surface of the handling assembly and the ion source during processing for shielding the ion source from residue that is outgassed from the coated surface of the workpiece during implantation. 20. The ion beam shield of claim 19, wherein the ion beam shield has a rough outer surface that effectively increases the surface area thereof to allow greater amounts of the outgassed residue to adhere thereto. 21. The ion beam shield of claim 19, wherein the ion beam shield is composed of an inflexible material. 22. A method for shielding an ion source during processing of a workpiece with a coated surface, comprising the steps of providing an ion source for ionizing selected matter to generate a ribbon-shaped ion beam, providing a housing defining a process chamber that is fluidly coupled to the ion source, mounting a workpiece handling assembly within the process chamber and having a workpiece support surface for supporting the workpiece within the process chamber during implantation by the ion beam, and positioning an ion beam shield having an aperture sized for allowing the ion beam to pass therethrough between the support surface of the handling assembly and the ion source during processing, wherein the aperture is sized to accommodate said ribbon beam having an aspect ratio equal to or greater than fifty to one, and shielding the ion source from residue that is outgassed from the coated surface of the workpiece during implantation. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of forming a rough outer surface in said ion beam shield for effectively increasing the surface area thereof to allow greater amounts of the outgassed residue to adhere thereto. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising the steps of disposing a focusing lens between the ion source and the shield for focusing the ion beam, and positioning the shield at a focal plane of the focussed beam. 