In a method of positioning means for automatically milking animals, such as cows, there is used a robot construction. The means for automatically milking are positioned, by means of said robot construction, in the longitudinal direction of the milking parlour relative to a reference plane situated transversely to said longitudinal direction, in which reference plane the centre of gravity of the relevant animal is located.
Claims Having disclosed my invention, what I claim as new and to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A method of positioning, by means of a robotic mechanism including means for automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising a milking parlor including a floor, said floor comprising elements that are sensitive to pressure, signal receiving means operatively connected to said elements that continually provides signals on where and how much pressure is exerted on said elements by at least one foreleg and one hindleg of the animal in the milking parlor to determine a transverse reference plane that coincides with the center of gravity of the animal in said milking parlor to be milked and continuously positioning the means for automatically milking in the longitudinal direction of said milking parlor relative to said reference plane. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising obtaining data of the pressure exerted by the animal, whereby this pressure is exerted, and recording said data in a computer, the determination of said reference plane being made with the aid of said data. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2 comprising further recording for each individual animal to enter said milking parlor the position of said animal's udder or teats or both relative to the reference plane in the computer. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein said recorded position of each animal's udder or teats or both of said animal relative to the reference plane is their actual position which is recorded after connecting teat cups which are included in said means for automatically milking animals to the teats of the corresponding animal. 5. A method as claimed in claim 2 which further comprises maintaining the means for automatically milking in a fixed position relative to the reference plane in response to the animal's movements in the milking parlor. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said robotic mechanism comprises a robot apparatus, the method further comprising, the positioning said robot apparatus as a whole in the longitudinal direction of the milking parlor relative to said reference plane. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein said robot apparatus comprises said robot arm that serves as a carrier for the means for automatically milking, said robot arm pivoting under the animal in respect to the position of said robot mechanism to the reference plane in the parlor. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein a laser detector is provided on the robot arm comprising moving said detector under the animal in the parlor into a position in which the teats of the animal can be detected, and upon the moving of the animal, following said teats by post-guiding the robot arm by means of the detector. 9. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein a laser detector is mounted on said robot arm, further comprising moving said detector to a position wherein it can detect the teats of the animal by post-guiding said robot arm in relation to said reference plane. 10. A mechanism for positioning, by means of a milking robot, means for automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising a milking parlor including a floor, said floor comprising elements that are sensitive to pressure, signal receiving means operatively connected to said elements that continually provides signals on where and how much pressure is exerted on said elements by at least one foreleg and one hindleg of an animal in the milking parlor to define a reference plane disposed transversely to the longitudinal direction of the milking parlor, in which said reference plane containing the center of gravity of the relevant animal, the position of said reference plane continuously being determined by signals received by said signal receiving means, said milking robot positioning said means for automatically milking with the aid of said reference plane. 11. A mechanism as claimed in claim 10, wherein said elements are disposed at those places where an animal to be milked in said parlor is likely to put its legs. 12. A mechanism as claimed in claim 10, comprising an animal identification system in said parlor, and recorded data operatively associated with said animal identification system that provides the location of the teats and/or udder for each animal that has been milked in said parlor relative to said reference plane. 