A wrist mechanism for a robotic manipulator having kinematically zero length and mutually orthogonal unlimited joints is provided. The wrist mechanism provides access to any reachable point from any arbitrary direction. The wrist mechanism includes an intermediate joint created by two parallelogram four-bar linkages operating in parallel. Each of the four bar linkages include two side bars, a fixed bar and a coupler bar. The coupler bars extend to support a last link of the wrist mechanism which holds an end effector. The kinematic lengths of the side bars are less than the kinematic lengths of the fixed and coupler bars. The side bars of the first parallelogram four-bar linkage are fixed out of phase with respect to the side bars of the second parallelogram four-bar linkage. Also, the side bars of both parallelogram four-bar linkages occupy multiple planes which, along with the kinematic lengths of all the linkage bars, allows for unlimited rotation and zero dwell time.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A kinematically zero dimension wrist mechanism comprising: a first parallelogram four-bar linkage; and a second parallelogram four-bar linkage operating in parallel with the first parallelogram four-bar linkage, the first parallelogram four-bar linkage being fixed out of phase with respect to the second parallelogram four-bar linkage, thereby resulting in three unlimited joints whose axes intersect mutually orthogonally at a tool tip. 2. The wrist of claim 1, further comprising an end effector coupled to at least the first parallelogram four-bar linkage and the second parallelogram four-bar linkage. 3. The wrist of claim 2, wherein the end effector is a tool tip. 4. The wrist of claim 1, wherein the first parallelogram four-bar linkage and the second parallelogram four-bar linkage form three mutually orthogonal unlimited joints, the three mutually orthogonal unlimited joints including a first joint, an intermediate joint and an end effector joint. 5. The wrist of claim 4, wherein: the end joint resides at substantially an end of the wrist and is coupled to the first parallelogram four-bar linkage and the second parallelogram four-bar linkage, the end effector joint resides at substantially an end effector, the end effector being coupled to an opposing end with respect to the end joint of the first parallelogram four-bar linkage and the second parallelogram four-bar linkage, and the intermediate joint resides at substantially a juncture of the first parallelogram four-bar linkage and the second parallelogram four-bar linkage, the intermediate joint connects the end joint and the end effector joint and allows the effector to rotate freely about the end joint. 6. The wrist of claim 4, further comprising a first axis, an intermediate axis, and an end effector axis, the first axis, the intermediate axis and the end effector axis intersecting at a single point at the end effector. 7. The wrist of claim 6, wherein: the intermediate joint revolves around the intermediate axis, the first joint revolves around the first axis, and the end effector joint revolves around the end effector axis. 8. The wrist of claim 1, wherein: the first parallelogram four-bar linkage comprises a fixed bar, a first coupler bar and first set of side bars, the first set of side bars coupling the fixed bar to the first coupler bar, and the second parallelogram four-bar linkage comprises the fixed bar of the first parallelogram four-bar linkage, a second coupler bar, and second set of side bars, the second set of side bars coupling the fixed bar to the second coupler bar. 9. The wrist of claim 8, wherein: the first set of side bars and the second set of side bars each occupy at least two planes, and the first coupler bar and the second coupler bar each occupy at least two planes different from the two planes occupied by the first side bars and the second side bars. 10. The wrist of claim 8, wherein the first set of side bars and the second set of side bars occupy different planes from the fixed bar, the first coupler bar and the second coupler bar. 11. The wrist of claim 8, wherein the first set of side bars, the second set of side bars, the first coupler bar, the second coupler bar and the fixed bar each occupy different planes. 12. The wrist of claim 8, wherein: the first set of side bars have kinematic lengths, the kinematic lengths of the first set of side bars are less than a kinematic length of the first coupler bar and the kinematic length of the fixed bar, the second set of side bars have kinematic lengths, the kinematic lengths of the second set of side bars are less than a kinematic length of the second coupler bar and the kinematic length of the fixed bar, and the kinematic lengths of the first set of side bars, the second set of side bars, the first coupler bar, the second coupler bar and the fixed bar allow unlimited rotatability of an end effector coupled to the first coupler bar and the second coupler bar. 13. The wrist of claim 8, wherein: the first coupler bar, the second coupler bar and the fixed bar remain parallel with respect to one another at any rotational position, and the first set of side bars remain parallel with respect to one another at any rotational position and the second set of side bars remain parallel with respect to one another at any rotational position. 14. The wrist of claim 13, wherein: a change point of the first set of side bars, the fixed bar and first coupler bar occurs without transmitting to an anti-parallel configuration, and a change point of the second set of side bars, the fixed bar and the second coupler bar occurs without transmitting to an anti-parallel configuration. 15. The wrist of claim 8, wherein the set of first side bars are joined to one side of the fixed bar and the second set of side bars are joined to another side of the fixed bar. 16. The wrist of claim 8, wherein: the first set of side bars are at least a first side bar and a second side bar, the first side bar being joined to the fixed bar by a first pin and the second side bar being joined to the fixed bar by a second pin, and the second set of side bars are at least a third side bar and a fourth side bar, the third side bar being joined to the fixed bar by the first pin and the fourth side bar being joined to the fixed bar by the second pin. 17. The wrist of claim 16, wherein: the first pin fixes the first side bar and the third side bar to each other in the out of phase relation with respect to one another, and the second pin fixes the second side bar and the fourth side bar to each other in the out of phase relation with respect to one another. 18. The wrist of claim 16, wherein a kinematic length between the first pin and the second pin is larger than at least one of (i) a kinematic length of the first side bar, (ii) a kinematic length of the second side bar, (iii) a kinematic length of the third side bar and (iv) a kinematic length of the fourth side bar. 19. The wrist of claim 16, wherein: the first side bar is joined to the first coupler bar by a third pin, the second side bar is joined to the first coupler bar by a fourth pin, the third side bar is joined to the second coupler bar by a fifth pin, and the fourth side bar being coupled to the second coupler bar by a sixth pin. 20. The wrist of claim 19, wherein: a kinematic length between the third pin and the fourth is larger than at least one of (i) the kinematic length of the first side bar and (ii) the kinematic length of the second side bar, and a kinematic length between the fifth pin and the sixth pin is larger than at least one (i) the kinematic length of the third side bar and (ii) the kinematic length of the fourth side bar. 21. The wrist of claim 8, further comprising a coupler link joining the first coupler bar and the second coupler bar to an end effector. 22. The wrist of claim 21, wherein the first coupler bar and the second coupler bar extend past the fourth pin and the sixth pin so that the end effector rotates freely without any mechanical interference. 23. The wrist of claim 22, wherein the kinematic length of extension of the first coupler bar and the second coupler bar is greater than the kinematic lengths of the second side bar and the fourth side bar. 24. A kinematically zero dimension wrist mechanism comprising: end effector holding means for holding an end effector; first pivoting means for pivotally supporting the end effector holding means at one end; and second pivoting means for pivotally supporting the end effector holding means at another end, wherein the first pivoting means and the second pivoting means are in an out of phase relation with respect to one another and are connected to one another by a common linkage bar, the first pivoting means and the second pivoting means rotate the end effector from a starting position about an axis and extend 360 degrees from the starting position, the first pivoting means and the second pivoting means are arranged relative to each other to permit movement of the end effector without any mechanical interference during the 360 degrees of movement. 25. The wrist mechanism of claim 24, wherein the first pivoting means and the second pivoting means occupy different planes. 26. The wrist mechanism of claim 24, wherein: the first pivoting means includes a first side bar, a second side bar, a fixed bar and a coupler bar, the second pivoting means includes a third side bar, a fourth side bar, the fixed bar and a second coupler bar, the first side bar and second side bar being joined to one side of the fixed bar, and the third side bar and the fourth side bar being fixed to another side of the fixed bar, the first side bar and third side bar being joined out of phase with respect to one another, and the second side bar and the fourth side bar being fixed out of phase with respect to one another, wherein the fixed bar is the common linkage bar linking the first parallelogram four-bar linkage with the second parallelogram four-bar linkage. 27. The wrist mechanism of claim 26, wherein: the first side bar and second side bar occupy at least one plane, the third side bar and the fourth side bar occupy at least one plane or planes different from the first side bar, and the side second bar, the fixed bar occupies one plane different from the planes of the first side bar, the side second bar, the third side bar, and the side fourth bar, the first coupler bar and the second coupler bar occupy separate planes different from the fixed side bar, the first side bar, the second side bar, the third side bar and the fourth side bar. 28. The wrist of claim 26, wherein: the first side bar is joined to the fixed bar by a first pin and the second side bar is joined to the fixed bar by a second pin, and the third side bar is joined to the fixed bar by the first pin and the fourth side bar is joined to the fixed bar by the second pin. 29. The wrist of claim 28, wherein a kinematic length between the first pin and the second pin is larger than at least one of (i) a kinematic length of the first side bar, (ii) a kinematic length of the second side bar, (iii) a kinematic length of the third side bar and (iv) a kinematic length of the fourth side bar. 30. The wrist of claim 28, wherein: the first side bar is joined to the first coupler bar by a third pin, the second side bar is joined to the first coupler bar by a fourth pin, the third side bar is joined to the second coupler bar by a fifth pin, and the fourth side bar is joined to the second coupler bar by a sixth pin. 31. The wrist of claim 30, wherein: a kinematic length between the third pin and the fourth pin is larger than at least one of (i) the kinematic length of the first side bar and (ii) the kinematic length of the second side bar, and a kinematic length between the fifth pin and the sixth pin is larger than at least one (i) the kinematic length of the third side bar and (ii) the kinematic length of the fourth side bar. 32. A kinematically zero dimension wrist mechanism comprising: a first four bar linkage system having a first side bar, a second side bar, a fixed bar and a first coupler bar; a second four bar linkage system having a third side bar, a fourth side bar, the fixed bar and a second coupler bar; and an end effector having a first end and a second opposing end and joined to both the first four bar linkage system and the second four bar linkage system, wherein the first coupler bar is pivotally connected approximately about the first end of the end effector and second coupler bar is pivotally connected approximately about the second end of the end effector, the first side bar and third side bar are joined through the fixed bar in an out of phase relation with respect to one another, the second side bar and the fourth side bar are joined through the fixed bar in an out of phase relation with respect to one another, the first side bar and the second side bar are substantially parallel with respect to one another at any rotation, the third side bar and the fourth side bar are substantially parallel with respect to one another at any rotation, the first coupler bar, the second coupler bar and the fixed bar are substantially parallel with respect to one another at any rotation, and one of the first side bar and the second side bar, one of the third side bar and fourth side bar, the fixed bar, the first coupler bar and the second coupler bar occupy different planes. 33. The wrist of claim 32, wherein a kinematic length of the first bar, the second bar, the third bar and fourth bar are less than a kinematic length of the first coupler bar, the second coupler bar and the fixed bar. 34. The wrist of claim 32, wherein: a kinematic length between a first pin which joins the first side bar and the third side bar to the fixed bar, and a second pin which joins the second bar and the fourth bar to the fixed bar is larger than at least one of (i) a kinematic length of the first side bar, (ii) a kinematic length of the second side bar, (iii) a kinematic length of the third-side bar and (iv) a kinematic length of the fourth side bar, a kinematic length between a first coupler pin which joins the first side bar to the first coupler bar, and a second coupler pin which joins the side second bar to the first coupler bar is larger than at least one of (i) the kinematic length of the first side bar and (ii) the kinematic length of the second side bar, and a kinematic length between a third coupler pin which joins the third side bar to the second coupler bar and a fourth coupler pin which joins the fourth side bar to the second coupler bar is larger than at least one (i) the kinematic length of the third side bar and (ii) the kinematic length of the fourth side. 35. A kinematically zero dimension wrist mechanism comprising: a first parallelogram four-bar linkage; a second parallelogram four-bar linkage operating in parallel with the first parallelogram four-bar linkage, the first parallelogram four-bar linkage being fixed out of phase with respect to the second parallelogram four-bar linkage, a connector link rotatably attached to the first and second parallelogram four-bar linkage, and a pin associated with the first and second parallelogram four-bar linkage at an opposing end to the connector link, thereby providing three degrees of unlimited rotation about a point on a tool tip. 