A method for protecting a selected area of a substrate against deposition on the selected area. The method includes the steps of flowing a process gas into a substrate processing chamber and flowing a purge gas to the selected area of the substrate to prevent the process gas from contacting the selected area or minimize contact between the process gas and the selected area. In various embodiments the selected area is a backside periphery of the substrate or the edge of the substrate. Also in these embodiments, the process gas is flowed into a deposition zone in order to deposit a thin film layer over an upper surface of the substrate, and a flow of the process and purge gas is established such that the process gas flows radically across the upper surface of the substrate, combines with the purge gas near an edge of the substrate and exits the processing chamber through an exhaust system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of protecting against deposition on a back surface and an edge of a substrate during processing of said substrate in a semiconductor processing chamber, said method comprising: supporting the substrate in said processing chamber on a substrate support that is in thermal contact with said substrate flowing a process gas into a processing chamber; and flowing a purge gas to a periphery of said substrate to exclude said process gas from contacting said periphery of said substrate. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said process gas comprises a product gas and a reactant gas. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said process gas further comprises a carrier gas. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said purge gas is an inert gas. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said process gas is flowed at a rate of between 200 sccm to 15 slm. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said purge gas is flowed at a rate of between 1 and 15 slm. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said purge gas is flowed toward said periphery of said substrate through an annular groove. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said purge gas is flowed toward said periphery of said substrate through said annular groove from a plurality of radial grooves. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising removing said process gas and said purge gas through an exhaust system of said processing chamber. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said purge gas is flowed across a peripheral region of a back surface of said substrate and across an edge of said substrate to prevent said process gas from contacting said peripheral region of said back surface of said substrate. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said purge gas is flowed from a gas disperser positioned in a surface that is not in mechanical contact with the substrate. 12. The method of claim 5 wherein said purge gas is flowed from a gas disperser positioned in a surface that is not in mechanical contact with the substrate. 13. A method of protecting against deposition on a back surface and an edge of a substrate during processing of said substrate in a semiconductor processing chamber, said method comprising: supporting said substrate in said processing chamber on a substrate support that is in thermal contact with said substrate; introducing a process gas toward a front surface of said substrate to deposit a layer of material on said substrate, said process gas comprising a first reactant gas, a second reactant gas and a carrier gas; introducing a purge gas around a backside periphery of said substrate such that said purge gas flows across said edge of said substrate and inhibits deposition of said material on said edge and back surface of said substrate, said purge gas comprising a nonreactive gas; and establishing a flow of said process and purge gases such that said process gas flows radially across said substrate, said purge gas combines with said process gas near said edge of said substrate, and said process and purge gases exits said processing chamber through an exhaust system. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said first reactant gas comprises vaporized TEOS and said second reactant gas comprises oxygen. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein said first reactant gas comprises vaporized TEOS and said second reactant gas comprises ozone in oxygen. 16. The method of claim 13 further comprising the act of introducing a second purge gas to an edge of said substrate from a position above said front surface of said substrate. 17. The method of claim 13 wherein said purge gas is flowed from a gas disperser positioned in a surface that is not in mechanical contact with the substrate. 18. A method of substantially confining deposition of a layer of material on a semiconductor substrate to a front surface of said substrate, said method comprising: supporting said substrate in a processing chamber on a substrate support that is in thermal contact with said substrate; introducing a process gas toward said front surface of said substrate to deposit a film of said material on said front surface of said substrate, said process gas comprising a first reactant gas, a second reactant gas and a carrier gas; introducing a purge gas around a backside periphery of said substrate such that said purge gas flows across said backside periphery of said substrate, said purge gas comprising a nonreactive gas; and establishing a flow of said process and purge gases such that said process gas flows radially across said front surface of said substrate, said purge gas combines with said process gas near an edge of said substrate, and said process and purge gases exits said processing chamber through an exhaust system. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said purge gas is introduced toward said substrate such that said purge gas flows across an edge of said substrate. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said purge gas is introduced toward said substrate such that said purge gas flows radially across a peripheral region of said back surface of said substrate and across said edge of said substrate. 21. A method of diminishing deposition on a back surface and an edge of a substrate during processing of said substrate in a semiconductor processing chamber having a gas manifold and an exhaust port, said method comprising: supporting said substrate in said processing chamber on a substrate support that transfers heat to said substrate; positioning a front surface of said substrate opposite said manifold; flowing a process gas through said manifold to deposit a layer of material on said substrate; and flowing a purge gas from an annular groove toward said substrate and across said edge of said substrate to inhibit deposition of said material on said edge of said substrate, said purge gas comprising a nonreactive gas. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising establishing a flow of said process and purge gases such that said process gas flows radially across said substrate, wherein unreacted gases from said process gas combine with said purge gas near said edge of said substrate, and said combined unreacted gases and purge gas exit said processing chamber through said exhaust port. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein said purge gas is introduced toward a peripheral region of said back surface such that it flows across said back surface peripheral region and across said edge of said substrate to prevent deposition of said material on said back surface and said edge of said substrate. 24. The method of claim 21 wherein said process gas comprises a first reactant gas, a second reactant gas, and a carrier gas. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein said first reactant gas and said second reactant gas react to deposit said material on said substrate at a rate of between about 500-4000 Angstroms per minute. 26. The method of claim 21 wherein said purge gas is introduced through said annular groove from a plurality of radial grooves. 27. The method of claim 21, further comprising: loading said substrate in said chamber with a moveable wafer support mechanism; transferring said substrate from said moveable wafer support mechanism to said substrate support; and transferring said substrate from said substrate support to said moveable wafer support mechanism after deposition is completed. 28. The method of claim 21 wherein said purge gas is flowed from a gas disperser positioned in a surface that is not in mechanical contact with the substrate. 29. The method of claim 21 further comprising: setting and maintaining a processing chamber pressure of between 10-200 torr; and heating said substrate to a temperature of between 200.degree.-500.degree. C. 30. A method of diminishing deposition on a back surface and an edge of a substrate during processing of said substrate in a semiconductor processing chamber having a gas manifold and an exhaust port, said method comprising the steps of: setting and maintaining a processing chamber pressure of between 10-200 torr; supporting said substrate in said processing chamber on a substrate support that transfers heat to said substrate; heating said substrate to a temperature of between 200.degree.-500.degree. C.; positioning a front surface of said substrate at a distance of less than about 0.2 inches from said manifold; introducing a process gas through said manifold to deposit a layer of material on said substrate; introducing a purge gas from an annular groove toward said substrate such that said purge gas flows across said edge of said substrate and prevents deposition of said material on said edge of said substrate, said purge gas comprising a nonreactive gas; and introducing a second purge gas from said gas manifold toward an upper surface of said edge of said substrate. 31. A method of minimizing deposition on a back surface and an edge of a substrate during processing of said substrate in a semiconductor processing chamber having a gas manifold and an exhaust port, said method comprising: supporting said substrate in said processing chamber on a substrate support that transfers heat to said substrate; positioning said manifold at a distance of less than about 0.2 inches toward a front surface of said substrate; flowing a process gas through said manifold to deposit a layer of material on said substrate; and flowing a purge gas from an annular groove across said edge of said substrate to minimize deposition of said material on said edge of said substrate, said purge gas comprising a nonreactive gas. 32. The method of claim 31, further comprising: loading said substrate in said chamber with a moveable wafer support mechanism; transferring said substrate from said moveable wafer support mechanism to said substrate support; and transferring said substrate from said substrate support to said moveable wafer support mechanism after deposition is completed. 33. The method of claim 31 further comprising establishing a flow of said process and purge gases such that said process gas flows radially across said substrate, wherein undeposited gases from said process gas combine with said purge gas near said edge of said substrate, and said combined undeposited gases and purge gas exit said processing chamber through said exhaust port. 34. The method of claim 31 wherein said purge gas is introduced from said annular channel across said back surface and said edge of said substrate such that said purge gas flows across said back surface and said edge of said substrate and minimizes deposition of said material on said back surface and said edge of said substrate. 35. The method of claim 31 wherein said process gas comprises a first reactant gas, a second reactant gas, and a carrier gas. 36. The method of claim 35 wherein said first reactant gas comprises vaporized TEOS and said second reactant gas comprises oxygen. 37. The method of claim 35 wherein said first reactant gas comprises vaporized TEOS and said second reactant gas comprises ozone in oxygen. 38. The method of claim 31 wherein said purge gas is introduced through said annular groove from a plurality of radial grooves. 39. The method of claim 35 wherein said first reactant gas and second reactant gas react to deposit said layer over said substrate as a rate between about 500 and 4000 Angstroms per minute. 40. The method of claim 31 wherein said purge gas is flowed from a gas disperser positioned in a surface that is not in mechanical contact with the substrate. 41. The method of claim 31 further comprising: setting and maintaining a processing chamber pressure of between 1-50 torr; and heating said substrate to a temperature of between 200.degree.-500.degree. C. 42. A method of protecting against deposition on a back surface and an edge of a substrate during processing of said substrate in a semiconductor processing chamber, said method comprising the steps of: supporting said substrate in said processing chamber on a susceptor; introducing a process gas toward a front surface of said substrate to deposit a layer of material on said substrate, said process gas comprising a first reactant gas, a second reactant gas and a carrier gas; introducing a first purge gas below said substrate such that said purge gas flows toward said back surface and said edge of said substrate; introducing a second purge gas from above said substrate directed toward said edge of said substrate; and establishing a gas flow of said process and purge gases such that said process gas flows radially across said substrate, combines with said purge gases near said edge of said substrate, and exits said processing chamber through an exhaust system outside a circumference of said substrate. 43. A method of protecting against deposition on a back surface and an edge of a substrate during processing of said substrate in a semiconductor processing chamber, said method comprising: supporting said substrate in a deposition zone of said processing chamber on a substrate support that is in thermal contact with said substrate; flowing a process gas into said deposition zone so that said process gas flows radially across a front surface of said substrate to deposit a thin film layer on said substrate, said process gas comprising a first reactant gas, a second reactant gas and a carrier gas; and flowing a purge gas around a backside periphery of said substrate such that said purge gas flows radially across said edge of said substrate to inhibit deposition of said thin film layer on said edge and back surface of said substrate, said purge gas comprising a nonreactive gas. 44. The method of claim 43 wherein said purge gas is flowed from a gas disperser positioned in a surface that is not in mechanical contact with the substrate. 45. The method of claim 43 wherein said process gas and purge gas flows combine near said edge of said substrate and exit said processing chamber through an exhaust system. 