A semi-automated machine for singulating individual surgical needles from an bulk supply and attaching a suture to the surgical needle is described. Each of the surgical needles has a suture receiving opening formed therein for receiving a suture. The machine includes a needle singulation station, a precise positioning station, a suture feeding station, a swage station, a pull-test station and an off-load station. The singulation station has a sliding surface that assists an operator in singulating needles and depositing them in a pair of drop locations for subsequent automatic handling. Indexing conveyors, an articulated robot and a precision conveyor are used with a pre-positioning and a precise positioning station for orienting each needle for automatic handling. A universal gripper mounted on a rotary indexing device automatically receives each individual needle in a predetermined orientation and conveys the needle for sequential processing from station to station to form the needle-suture assembly. A swage station is provided for swaging the needle to close the suture receiving opening about the suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly. A final off-load station provides an apparatus for assembling a predetermined number of need-suture assemblies in a bundle for subsequent packaging.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A semi-automatic needle singulating and positioning apparatus for singulating an individual surgical needle from a plurality of surgical needles and positioning the needle for subsequent automated handling, said apparatus comprising: (a) a semi-automatic needle singulating station for receiving a plurality of randomly arranged surgical needles, said station having a sliding surface for assisting an operator in singulating surgical needles for transfer to at least one indexing conveyor; (b) an imaging system for imaging said surgical needles on said at least one indexing conveyor and generating data signals representative of the position and orientation of an individual surgical needle on said at least one indexing conveyor; (c) a robotic needle handling device responsive to said data signals representative of the position and orientation of a surgical needle on said at least one indexing conveyor to transfer an individual surgical needle to a precise positioning apparatus; (d) a precise positioning apparatus for receiving singulated needles from said robotic needle handling device and precisely positioning the singulated needle at a first predetermined location; (e) a universal gripper for receiving each precisely positioned and singulated needle at said first predetermined location and indexing said needle in a predetermined orientation from said first predetermined location through successive stations for sequential processing at subsequent predetermined locations. 2. A semi-automatic needle singulating and positioning apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said sliding surface includes at least one insert drop for singulating said surgical needles for deposition upon said at least one indexing conveyor, each of said singulated needles being deposited upon said at least one indexing conveyor. 3. A semi-automatic needle singulating and positioning apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said needle singulating station further includes an intermediate positioning zone and a first transfer means to transfer said needle from said intermediate positioning zone to said at least one indexing conveyor. 4. A semi-automatic needle singulating and positioning apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein said first transfer means includes an air jet operated in synchronism with said indexing conveyor to transfer singulated needles from said intermediate positioning zone to said at least one indexing conveyor. 5. A semi-automatic needle singulating and positioning apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said apparatus further includes first and second insert drops, first and second intermediate positioning zones and first and second indexing conveyors which are staggered in operation to provide processing time for said imaging system to determine said position and orientation data. 6. A semi-automatic needle singulating and positioning apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said universal gripper includes an indexing means for rotating the universal gripper to each of said successive stations and means to impart a compound reciprocal movement from a first retracted position to a second extended position at each of said successive stations. 7. A semi-automatic needle singulating and positioning apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said universal gripper means includes first and second jaws for engaging said surgical needle, said jaws having a first engaging position for engaging said surgical needle in a precisely oriented position, and a second non-engaging position for releasing said surgical needle. 8. A semi-automatic needle singulating and positioning apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said universal gripper is horizontally translated as it is reciprocated into a gripping position to enable said universal gripper to grip said surgical needle in said predetermined orientation. 9. A semi-automatic needle singulating and positioning apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus further includes a swage station, said swage station including first and second swaging dies, said first swaging die being relatively fixed and having an end thereof defining a portion of a swage die opening, and said second swaging die being moveable and having an end thereof defining another portion of said swage die opening, wherein said first swaging die means is adjustable in position between swages to adjust the swage compression imparted to said needle during swaging. 10. A semi-automatic needle singulating and positioning apparatus according to claim 9 wherein a computer control means determines and controls the optimum positioning of said first swaging die to avoid over-swaging and under-swaging of said needle. 11. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein, said apparatus comprising: (a) a semi-automatic needle singulating station for receiving a plurality of randomly arranged surgical needles, said station having a sliding surface for assisting an operator in singulating surgical needles for transfer to an indexing conveyor; (b) a robotic apparatus for transferring said surgical needles from said indexing conveyor to a precise positioning apparatus, said robotic apparatus and said precise positioning apparatus orienting each positioned surgical needle for subsequent automatic handling at a first predetermined location; (c) a universal gripper for receiving each positioned surgical needle at said first predetermined location and indexing each positioned surgical needle in a predetermined orientation from said first predetermined location through successive locations for sequential processing at subsequent predetermined locations, (d) a suture cutting station located at a second predetermined location for automatically cutting an indefinite length of suture material to a definite length and automatically inserting said suture into said suture receiving opening formed in said surgical needle; (e) a third means for swaging said surgical needle to close said suture receiving opening about a free end of said suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly, (f) means for receiving individual needle and suture assemblies from said universal gripper for subsequent packaging; whereby unsorted needles and an indefinite length of suture material are formed into a plurality of oriented surgical needle and suture assemblies. 12. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said universal gripper reciprocates with a compound movement from a first retracted position to a second extended position with respect to each subsequent predetermined location. 13. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said universal gripper means includes first and second jaws for engaging said surgical needle, said jaws having a first engaging position for engaging said surgical needle in a precisely oriented position, and a second non-engaging position for releasing said surgical needle. 14. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said robotic apparatus further comprises: (a) first means for obtaining an image of said surgical needles deposited upon said indexing conveyor, said means including digitizing means for converting said image into digital signals; (b) computer control means for processing said digital signals to obtain positional and orientation data for a selected surgical needle upon said indexing conveyor; and (c) gripper means for removing said selected surgical needle from said indexing conveyor and positioning it upon said precise positioning apparatus for further orientation and conveyance thereof, wherein said robotic apparatus grasps each of said selected surgical needles in accordance with its respective positional and orientation data when removing it from said indexing conveyor. 15. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said semi-automatic singulating station further includes a sliding surface with at least one insert drop for singulating said surgical needles for deposition upon said indexing conveyor, each of said singulated surgical needles being deposited upon said indexing conveyor in a spaced apart relation. 16. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said computer control means further includes a means for processing said positional and orientation data to obtain therefrom instructions for enabling said gripper means to grasp said selected surgical needle in accordance with its respective positional and orientation data. 17. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said means for obtaining an image of said randomly deposited needles includes one or more video cameras. 18. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said semi-automatic singulating means further includes at least one insert drop positioned above a transfer surface adjacent said indexing conveyor so that individual surgical needles can be automatically transferred from said transfer surface to said indexing conveyor. 19. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said gripper means includes an articulated robot arm for grasping each of said selected surgical needles based upon said positional and orientation data received from said computer control means. 20. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said precise positioning apparatus includes a plurality of carrier means each for receiving a single surgical needle from said gripping means, each individual carrier means having a means for engaging a single surgical needle transferred thereto. 21. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 20 wherein each of said engaging means includes a first fixed jaw and a second movable jaw for engaging a needle positioned therebetween by said gripping means. 22. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 21 wherein each of said carrier means further includes spring means for biasing said second movable jaw into engagement with said first fixed jaw to retain said needle positioned therebetween. 23. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 21 wherein said carrier means further includes means for retracting said second movable jaw from engagement with said fixed jaw for removing said needle positioned therebetween. 24. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 23 wherein said means for retracting said second movable jaw from engagement with said fixed jaw is a push rod for pushing said second movable jaw in opposition to said bias of said spring means. 25. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said plurality of carrier means are arranged to form a precision conveyor which further includes a first orienting plough for orienting each of said needles positioned on their respective carrier means in a uniform direction. 26. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 25 wherein said precision conveyor further includes a pre-positioning means for further orienting said needle within said carrier means. 27. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said precise positioning apparatus and said precision conveyor include a moveable hard stop assembly for further orienting said needle to within 0.001 inch of said predetermined location adjacent said carrier means. 28. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said precision conveyor positions said carrier means in a confrontingly opposed relation with said universal gripper to enable said universal gripper to receive said positioned surgical needle from said carrier means. 29. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 28 wherein said universal gripper means is horizontally translated as it is reciprocated into a gripping position to enable said jaws to grip said surgical needle in said oriented position. 30. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 27 wherein said moveable hard stop reciprocates between a first engagement position adjacent said carrier means and a second retracted position to provide clearance for movement of said carrier means. 31. A semi-automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus for singulating and precisely positioning curved surgical needles for subsequent swaging, said apparatus comprising: (a) a needle singulating station, said station having a sliding surface for receiving a plurality of needles, said sliding surface enabling an operator to individually singulate a single needle from said plurality and deposit a single needle upon an indexing conveyor; (b) an imaging station for obtaining an image of individual needles at a predetermined location on said indexing conveyor, said imaging station including digitizing means for converting said image into digital signals; (c) computer control means for processing said digital signals to obtain positional and orientation data for each selected one of the imaged needles on said indexing conveyor; and (d) robotic transfer means for removing said needle from said indexing conveyor in accordance with its individual positional and orientation data and transferring said needle to a precision conveyor for further orientation and precise positioning; (e) a precision transfer station for transferring the needle to a universal gripper for a subsequent automatic swaging operation. 32. A semi-automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 31 wherein said robotic transfer means includes one or more gripper means for picking up needles from said indexing conveyor, and placing said needles upon said precision conveyor. 33. A semi-automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 31 wherein said precision conveyor includes one or more engagement devices for gripping a respective needle, said transfer means placing each said needle in a respective engagement device. 34. A semi-automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 31 wherein said computer control means further includes memory means for storing said positional and orientation data corresponding to said imaged needles, said robotic transfer means including means for accessing said memory means to obtain said positional and orientation data corresponding to said imaged needles. 35. A semi-automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 31 wherein said imaging station includes one or more camera means, each of said one or more camera means communication said digital signals to said computer control means. 36. A semi-automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 35 wherein each of said one or more camera means obtains a video image of said needles upon said indexing conveyor at a respective predetermined location within a field-of-view of said one or more camera means. 37. A semi-automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 34 wherein said robotic transfer means is in communication with said memory means, said robotic transfer means accessing said memory means to obtain said positional and orientation data corresponding to a selected one of said imaged needles. 38. A semi-automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 33 wherein each of said engagement devices includes a pair of engaging jaws for engaging a needle positioned therebetween by said robotic transfer means. 39. A semi-automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 38 wherein each said engagement device further a includes spring means for biasing a first movable jaw of said pair of engaging jaws into engagement with a second fixed jaw of said pair of engaging jaws to retain said needle positioned therebetween. 40. A semi-automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 39 wherein each of said engagement devices further includes means for retracting said first movable engaging jaw from engagement with said second fixed jaw prior to positioning said needle therebetween. 