A semi-automated machine for singulating individual surgical needles from an bulk supply and attaching a suture to the surgical needle is described. Each of the surgical needles has a suture receiving opening formed therein for receiving a suture. The machine includes a needle singulation station, a precise positioning station, a suture feeding station, a swage station, a pull-test station and an off-load station. A universal gripper mounted on a rotary indexing device automatically receives each individual needle in a predetermined orientation and conveys the needle for sequential processing from station to station to form the needle-suture assembly. A suture feeding and cutting station automatically cuts an indefinite length of suture material to a definite length suture strand and automatically inserts an end of the definite length suture strand into the suture receiving opening formed in the needle. A swage station is provided for swaging the needle to close the suture receiving opening about the suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly. An off-load station provides an apparatus for assembling a predetermined number of need-suture assemblies in a bundle for subsequent packaging. The bundles are collected in a plurality of buckets that are circumferentially arranged on a rotating table. A needle stripping device ensures discharge of the needle suture assembly into the bucket.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein, and then collecting said suture and needle assemblies for subsequent bundling and packaging, said apparatus comprising: (a) a semi-automatic needle singulating station for receiving a plurality of randomly arranged surgical needles, said station having a sliding surface for assisting an operator in singulating surgical needles for transfer to a precise positioning apparatus; (b) a precise positioning apparatus for receiving said surgical needles from said needle singulating station to orient and position each needle at a first predetermined location for subsequent automatic handling; (c) a plurality of universal grippers for successively receiving each precisely positioned needle at said first predetermined location and indexing each of said needles in a predetermined orientation from said first predetermined location to a second predetermined location for sequential suture insertion and needle swaging to form a plurality of needle and suture assemblies, (d) a plurality of needle buckets for receiving individual needle and suture assemblies from said plurality of universal grippers, each needle bucket collecting a predetermined number of needle and suture assemblies from successive universal grippers at a needle discharge position; whereby said predetermined number of needle and suture assemblies may be collected in said needle bucket to form a bundle of surgical needle and suture assemblies ready for packaging. 2. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said apparatus further comprises a suture cutting station located at said second predetermined location for automatically cutting an indefinite length of suture material to a definite length and automatically inserting said suture into said suture receiving opening formed in said surgical needle at said second predetermined location prior to swaging. 3. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said needle buckets are circumferentially arranged on a rotating turntable to index one bucket after another under said needle discharge position. 4. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said needle buckets are sequentially radially reciprocated at said needle discharge position to receive said needle suture assemblies. 5. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein each of said universal grippers are radially reciprocated to said needle discharge position at the time the needle and suture assembly in said universal gripper is discharged. 6. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said needle buckets are spring biased to a home position, and radially reciprocated to said needle discharge position by a pneumatic drive. 7. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the apparatus further includes a needle stripper at said needle discharge position. 8. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the needle stripper includes a reciprocating needle stripping pin which reciprocates along an axis which intersects the needle and suture assembly in said universal gripper at said needle discharge position. 9. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3 wherein each of said universal grippers includes first and second jaws for engaging one of said surgical needles, said jaws having a first engaging position for engaging said one surgical needle in a precisely oriented position, and a second non-engaging position for releasing said one surgical needle for discharge at said needle discharge position. 10. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 9 wherein the apparatus further includes a needle stripper to ensure positive removal of the needle and suture assembly from the first and second jaws of the universal gripper at said needle discharge position. 11. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein, said apparatus comprising: (a) a plurality of universal grippers mounted on a swage dial for successively receiving an individual one of a plurality of precisely positioned surgical needles at a first predetermined location and indexing said one surgical needle in a predetermined orientation from said first predetermined location to a second predetermined location, each of said universal grippers mounted for radial reciprocation with respect to said swage dial in response to rotation of a cam dial; (b) a suture insertion station located at a second predetermined location for automatically inserting a suture of predetermined length into said suture receiving opening formed in said one surgical needle; (c) a needle swaging station for swaging said one surgical needle to close said suture receiving opening about a free end of said suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly, (d) a plurality of needle collection buckets for receiving individual needle and suture assemblies from each of said universal grippers, each of said needle collection buckets accumulating a predetermined number thereof to provide a bundle of needle and suture assemblies for subsequent packaging; whereby unsorted needles and lengths of suture material are formed into a bundle of surgical needle and suture assemblies. 12. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 11 wherein each of said universal grippers includes first and second jaws for engaging said one surgical needle, said jaws having a first engaging position for engaging said one surgical needle in a precisely oriented position, and a second non-engaging position for releasing said one surgical needle at a needle discharge position above one of said plurality of needle collection bucket. 13. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 12 where in said universal grippers are radially reciprocated to said needle discharge position at the time said one needle is discharged. 14. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the apparatus further includes a needle stripper to ensure positive removal of said one needle from the first and second jaws of the universal gripper at said needle discharge position. 15. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 14 wherein the needle stripper includes a reciprocating needle stripping pin which reciprocates along an axis to intersect the said one needle at said needle discharge position. 16. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said needle stripping pin is spring biased to a first position and reciprocated outwardly by a pneumatic motor to a second position to intersect said one needle. 17. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said needle buckets are circumferentially arranged on a rotating turntable to index one bucket after another under said needle discharge position. 18. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said needle buckets are sequentially radially reciprocated at said needle discharge position to receive said needle and suture assemblies. 19. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said needle buckets are spring biased to a home position, and radially reciprocated to said needle discharge position by a pneumatic drive. 20. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 11 wherein each of said needle buckets includes a comb-like surface to assist in retaining the sutures in position. 21. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the apparatus further includes a suture shroud to guide the unsupported end of the suture after the suture has been swaged to said one needle. 