A parts carrier strip includes a wall portion defining an aperture wherein the wall portion includes a tab portion which is deflectable to permit the tab portion to be placed in a recess in a part to be carried by the strip. Also disclosed is an apparatus for assembling parts in such a strip.
Claims I claim: 1. A parts carrier, comprising: a flexible member which can be flattened into a planar strip and having a plurality of part-receiving apertures extending fully through the member wherein each aperture is defined by four wall portions, each wall portion including at least two tab portions, each tab portion being resiliently deflectable from an undeflected position while the flexible member is flattened to permit placement of a preformed part in a part-receiving aperture, each tab portion thereafter substantially returning to the undeflected position to releasably engage a recess in the part. 2. The parts carrier of claim 1, in combination with a part disposed in one of the apertures. 3. The parts carrier of claim 1, wherein the tab portions are coplanar. 4. The parts carrier of claim 1, wherein each aperture is rectangular. 5. The parts carrier of claim 1, wherein the flexible member further includes a series of positioning holes. 6. The parts carrier of claim 1, wherein the flexible member further includes first and second series of marginal positioning holes disposed on first and second sides, respectively, of the apertures. 7. The parts carrier of claim 6, wherein each series of marginal positioning holes includes a first set of spaced holes each of a first size and a second set of spaced holes interspersed between the first set of spaced holes and each of a second size smaller than the first size. 8. The parts carrier of claim 6, wherein the apertures and the positioning holes are regularly spaced. 9. A combination, comprising: a flexible planar strip having a plurality of part-receiving apertures extending fully through the strip, the plurality of apertures being disposed along a length of the strip between side edges thereof, wherein each aperture is defined by four wall portions, each wall portion including including two tab portions which are deflectable when the strip is flattened to releasably engage a recess in a part, the strip further including first and second series of positioning holes adjacent the apertures, a first series of positioning holes being disposed between the apertures and one of the side edges, a second series of positioning holes being disposed between the apertures and another of the side edges, the apertures and the series of positioning holes being spaced regularly along the strip length, each of the first and second series of positioning holes further including a first set of holes having a first size and further having a second set of spaced holes interspersed between the first set of spaced holes, the second set of holes having a second size smaller than the first size; and a plurality of parts disposed in the plurality of apertures, each part having a recess which receives one of the tab portions. 10. The combination of claim 9, wherein each aperture is rectangular. 11. A part carrier, comprising: a resilient flexible member capable of being flattened into a planar strip, the member including a plurality of part receiving apertures spaced at intervals along a length of the member; each of the part receiving apertures being generally rectangular and having a plurality of linear sidewalls, each of the sidewalls including at least one resiliently deflectable tab, each of the tabs being adapted for resilient movement between an undeflected position and a deflected position; and a part adapted for placement in each of the apertures, the part having four lateral side portions, each of the side portions having a recess adapted for releasable engagement by an adjacent one of the tabs; wherein each of the tabs are adapted to shift from an undeflected position to a deflected position in response to movement of the part into the corresponding aperture, and further are adapted to shift to an undeflected position when the part is secured in the aperture, each of the tabs further being adapted to resiliently return to the undeflected position in response to removal of the part from the aperture. 