A navigation system and method for identifying a position or navigating an autonomous robotic platform within an area is provided including a moveable device having an acoustic transmitter for transmitting an acoustic signal, an electronic processor device and an RF receiver; and three or more beacons positioned proximate the area, each beacon including a signal receiving apparatus responsive to the acoustic signal and an RF transmitter, the acoustic signal and the RF signal received from each of the beacons being processed in the electronic processor device to identify the location of the platform within the area.
Claims We claim: 1. A navigation system comprising: a movable device within a given area, said movable device including: an acoustic transmitter for transmitting a continuous acoustic signal over said area; an RF receiver for receiving RF signals of a plurality of different frequencies; and an electronic processor means; and; three or more beacons positioned proximate to said given area within range of said acoustic signal, each of said beacons including: a signal receiving apparatus responsive to said acoustic signal to generate an RF signal corresponding to a unique one of said plurality of different frequencies; and an RF transmitter for transmitting said RF signal to said RF receiver on said movable device; said acoustic signal and said RF signal received from each of said beacons being processed in said electronic processor means to identify the location of said device within said area. 2. The navigation system of claim 1 wherein said acoustic signal is within the audible range. 3. The navigation system of claim 1 wherein said movable device further includes a self-contained means for controlling its position in response to said received RF signal from each of said beacons. 4. The navigation system of claim 1 wherein said movable device further includes one or more work elements for performing a function within said area. 5. The navigation system of claim 1 wherein said movable device further includes a programmable means for controlling movement of the device along a predetermined path, said electronic processor means responsive to said RF signal received from each of said beacons to alter said movement from said predetermined path. 6. The navigation system of claim 1 wherein said acoustic signal is a pseudo-noise signal derived from a binary sequence. 7. A position identifying system comprising: an apparatus positioned within a given area, said apparatus including: an acoustic transmitter for transmitting a continuous acoustic signal over said area; an RF receiver for receiving RF signals of a plurality of different frequencies; and an electronic processor means; and; three or more beacons positioned proximate to said given area within range of said acoustic signal, each of said beacons comprising: a signal receiving apparatus responsive to said acoustic signals to generate an RF signal corresponding to a unique one of said plurality of different frequencies; and an RF transmitter for transmitting said RF signal to said RF receiver on said movable device; said acoustic signal and said RF signal received from each of said beacons being processed in said electronic processor means to identify the location of said device within said area. 8. The position identifying system of claim 7 wherein said acoustic signal is within the audible range. 9. The position identifying system of claim 7 wherein said apparatus further includes one or more work elements for performing a function within said area. 10. The position identifying system of claim 7 wherein said acoustic signal is a pseudo-noise signal derived from a binary sequence. 11. The position indenting system of claim 7 wherein said movable device further includes self-contained means for controlling its position in response to RF signals received from said beacons. 12. A method of identifying a position within an area comprising the steps of: transmitting a continuous acoustic signal from an apparatus located at said position; receiving said acoustic signal by at least three beacons outside said area; transmitting, from each of said beacons, an RF signal responsive to said acoustic signal back to said apparatus, said RF signal having a unique frequency with respect to other RF signals generated by said beacons; and processing said acoustic signal and said RF signal received from each of said beacons to obtain the position of said apparatus. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising the steps of: operating said apparatus in a survey mode to determine the location of said beacons; and operating said apparatus in a navigation mode to perform a sequence of tasks specified by a user. 14. A method of navigating a movable device within an area comprising the steps of: transmitting a continuous acoustic signal from said movable device located with said area; receiving said acoustic signal by at least three beacons proximate said area; transmitting, from each of said beacons, an RF signal responsive to said acoustic signal back to said movable device, said RF signal having a unique frequency with respect to other RF signals generated by said beacons; and processing said acoustic signal and said RF signal received from each of said beacons to identify the location of said movable device. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of controlling the position of said movable device in response to said received RF signal from each of said beacons. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising the steps of: operating said movable device in a survey mode to determine the location of said beacons; and operating said movable device in a navigation mode to perform a sequence of tasks specified by a user. 17. A robotic platform for navigating and performing a function within an area outside of which are at least three beacons, said platform comprising: at least one work element for performing said function; a transmitter for transmitting a continuous acoustic signal; a receiver for receiving RF signals transmitted by each of said beacons at respectively different frequencies in response to said acoustic signal; a processor for processing said signals and outputting data; and a controller for controlling the direction of said platform and the application of said work elements. 18. The robotic platform of claim 17 wherein said acoustic signal is a pseudo-noise signal derived from a binary sequence. 19. The robotic platform of claim 17 further comprising: means for operating said robotic platform in a survey mode to determine the location of said beacons; and means for operating said robotic platform in a navigation mode to perform a sequence of tasks specified by a user. 