An apparatus for sensing an applied force comprising a deflectable bridge, formed in a substrate and spanning a recessed area. The deflectable bridge also has a sensing element. The force is applied to the bridge and in response thereto, an output characteristic of the sensing element changes in proportion to the magnitude of the applied force. The apparatus can further comprise a sensing bump in contact with the bridge, wherein the force is applied to the bridge through the sensing bump.
Claims The claimed invention is: 1. An apparatus for sensing an applied force comprising: a deflectable bridge formed in a substrate and spanning a recess in the substrate; and a sensing element formed on the bridge and responsive to deflection of the bridge. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a sensing bump connected to said bridge and configured to receive said applied force. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said sensing bump is configured to optimize the deflection of said bridge in response to said applied force. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensing element is comprised of a piezoresistor network. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said piezoresistor network is further comprised as a Wheatstone bridge circuit. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensing element is comprised of a MOS transistor. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said bridge having a first surface and a second surface, further comprises a bore passing through said bridge from said first surface to said second surface. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensing element is formed by P+ implantation. 9. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said sensing bump is formed by at least one of metal, polysilicon, dielectric and passivation layers. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said apparatus is CMOS compatible. 11. An apparatus for sensing an applied force comprising a plurality of sensing cells, wherein each sensing cell in said plurality of sensing cells is comprised of: a deflectable bridge formed in a substrate and spanning a recess in the substrate; and a sensing element formed on the bridge in said plurality of sensing cells wherein said sensing element is responsive to deflection of the bridge in said plurality of sensing cells. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein each said bridge in said plurality of sensing cells further comprises a sensing bump connected to said bridge and configured to receive said applied force. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said sensing bump is configured to optimize the deflection of said bridge in said plurality of sensing cells in response to said applied force. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein each said sensing element in said plurality of sensing cells is comprised of a piezoresistor network. 15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein each said sensing element in said plurality of sensing cells is comprised of a MOS transistor. 16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein each said bridge in said plurality of sensing cells has a first surface, a second surface, and a bore, said bore passing from said first surface to said second surface. 17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said apparatus is CMOS compatible. 18. A method for sensing an applied force comprising the steps of: deflecting a bridge spanning a recess in a semiconductor substrate; sensing said deflection of said bridge; and producing a signal in response to said sensing of said deflection of said bridge, wherein said signal is in proportion to said deflection. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said step of deflecting said bridge further comprises the step of applying said force to said bridge through a sensing bump. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said step of deflecting said bridge further comprises the step of configuring said sensing bump to optimize said deflection of said bridge. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein said step of sensing said deflection of said bridge is further comprised of providing a piezoresistor network for said sensing. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein said step of sensing said deflection of said bridge is further comprised of providing a MOS transistor for said sensing. 23. A method for fabricating a sensing cell for sensing an applied force comprising the steps of: forming a deflectable bridge spanning a recess in a semiconductor substrate; forming a sensing element responsive to deflection of the bridge. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising the step of forming a sensing bump on said bridge, said sensing bump configured to receive said applied force. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said step of forming said sensing bump on said bridge further comprises configuring said sensing bump to optimize said deflection of said bridge in response to said applied force. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein said step of forming said sensing element further comprises forming said sensing element as a piezoresistor network. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein said step of forming said sensing element further comprises forming said sensing element as a MOS transistor. 28. The method of claim 23, wherein said step of forming said sensing bump further comprises forming said sensing bump by at least one of metal, polysilicon, dielectric and passivation layers. 29. The method of claim 23, further comprising selecting said method to be CMOS compatible. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein said step of forming said deflectable bridge is further comprised of performing a continuous etch anisotropically and then isotropically, to laterally undercut said bridge, form said recess, and release said bridge from said semiconductor substrate. 