A system includes an interface for receiving a pod having a carrier that receives wafers, and that is initially enclosed within a base and a pod cover. The system also includes a mechanism that transfers an exposed carrier between the interface and a platform of a mass-transfer machine included in the system. The machine includes a gantry arm for transferring the carrier between the platform and a transfer station. A retainer assembly is positionable over the carrier at the transfer station, and over a process carrier that is used in a processing tool. Moveable retainers of the assembly receive and hold wafers. The machine includes an elevator that moves between the transfer station and the process carrier. The elevator extends and retracts for transferring wafers between the retainers and either the carrier or the process carrier. A turntable, that receives the process carrier, permits automatically reorienting wafers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system for automatically transferring wafers between a Standard Mechanical InterFace ("SMIF") pod and process carrier used in a wafer processing tool; the SMIF pod including: a wafer carrier adapted to receive a plurality of wafers; a base which receives the wafer carrier; and a pod cover which mates with and seals to the base of the SMIF pod thereby enclosing the wafer carrier and any wafers received therein within the pod cover and the base; the pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system comprising: pod loader interface adapted for receiving the SMIF pod, for exposing a wafer carrier initially enclosed within the SMIF pod, and for reenclosing the wafer carrier within the SMIF pod; a carrier load mechanism that is mechanically coupled to said pod loader interface for transferring the wafer carrier between a position in which the wafer carrier is exposed within said pod loader interface and a load platform; and a mass-transfer machine that includes the load platform and which is mechanically coupled directly to said pod loader interface, said mass-transfer machine including: a gantry arm for transferring the wafer carrier between the load platform and a first wafer transfer station included in said mass-transfer machine; a retainer assembly adapted for being positioned over: the wafer carrier when the wafer carrier is present at the wafer transfer station, said retainer assembly including moveable retainers adapted for receiving wafers; and over the process carrier used in the wafer processing tool; and a first elevator moveable between positions in which said elevator is located either beneath the wafer transfer station or beneath the process carrier, said elevator being extensible and retractable for transferring wafers between: the wafer carrier present at the wafer transfer station and a position within said retainer assembly in which the retainers thereof may receive the wafers; and the wafer processing tool and a position within said retainer assembly in which the retainers thereof may receive the wafers. 2. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 1 wherein said carrier load mechanism reorients the wafer carrier while transferring the wafer carrier between the pod loader interface and the load platform. 3. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 2 wherein said carrier load mechanism for transferring and reorienting the wafer carrier, includes an end-effector that: rotates in a first direction about a horizontal axis to engage the wafer carrier then disposed in said pod loader interface with wafers received in the wafer carrier being oriented horizontally; raises the wafer carrier; carrying the wafer carrier, rotates about the horizontal axis in a second direction that is reversed from the first direction so that wafers present in said wafer carrier become oriented vertically over the mass-transfer machine, and lowers to deposit the wafer carrier onto the load platform of said mass-transfer machine about a center of gravity for the wafer carrier. 4. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 1 wherein said elevator is U-shaped. 5. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 1 further comprising a second wafer transfer station and a second elevator, means for moving said first and second elevators with respect to each other for adjusting spacing between wafers being transferred concurrently between wafer carriers located respectively at the first and second wafer transfer stations and the retainers of said retainer assembly. 6. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 5 wherein said mass-transfer machine includes a motorized turntable for receiving the process carrier, the motorized turntable being adapted for rotating the process carrier through an angle of at least 180.degree. between depositing of wafers into or removing of wafers from the process carrier. 7. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 1 wherein the mass-transfer machine is directly coupled to said pod loader interface by a rigid plate that receives both the mass-transfer machine and the pod loader interface. 8. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 7 wherein the plate includes an indexing means for ensuring precise mechanical positioning and repositioning of the pod loader interface with respect to said mass-transfer machine so that the pod loader interface may be removed and replaced precisely in a fast and easy manner. 9. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 8 wherein the indexing means includes holes that pierce both the plate and a base plate of said pod loader interface, together with pins that are received into the holes, each pin extending between the plate and the base plate of said pod loader interface. 10. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 7 wherein the plate is received by guide rails that are coupled to the wafer processing tool, the guide rails permitting the pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system to slide horizontally with respect to the wafer processing tool to facilitate maintenance or repair thereof. 11. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 10 further comprising adjusting means disposed between the plate and the wafer processing tool for raising, lowerering and tilting the pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system with respect to the wafer processing tool. 12. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 11 wherein the adjusting means includes jack screws that are coupled to the plate. 13. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 7 further comprising adjusting means disposed between the plate and the wafer processing tool for raising, lowerering and tilting the pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system with respect to the wafer processing tool. 14. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 13 wherein the adjusting means includes jack screws that are coupled to the plate. 