An improved force transducer which may, for example, be used as a joystick control for computer display control. Co-planar strain gauges are configured for response to forces applied in each of three orthogonal directions. A post and underlying ceramic substrate, the latter having the strain gauges mounted thereon, are mounted to a printed circuit board by means of a conductive epoxy or solder in a gap between the substrate and the circuit board. A retainer may be used to limit the extent of post displacement in X and Y directions to prevent damage to the assembly from forces which would otherwise exceed the physical limits thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the post and underlying substrate are implemented as a unitary ceramic body. In another embodiment, ballast or trim resistors for balancing the output of the transducer, are located under the post. In yet another embodiment the metal paths or traces which connect to the strain gauges, follow a unique arrangement to avoid crossing over each other. In still another embodiment, temperature variation effects are nullified by employing an additional strain gauge or resistor for measuring forces in the Z direction.
Claims We claim: 1. A force transducer for generating an electrical response dependent upon the magnitude and direction of an applied force, the transducer comprising: a ceramic post and a ceramic substrate to which the post is integral at a first end, a second end of said post being free; and a plurality of strain gauges each being a film deposit mounted on said substrate adjacent said post at a selected location and configured for changing resistance in response to a force applied to said post, said resistance changes among said strain gauges being dependent on the magnitude and direction of said force in each of three orthogonal directions. 2. A force transducer for generating an electrical response dependent upon the magnitude and direction of an applied force, the transducer comprising: a ceramic post and a ceramic substrate to which the post is affixed at a first end, a second end of said post being free; and a plurality of strain gauges each mounted on said substrate adjacent said post at a selected location and configured for changing resistance in response to a force applied to said post, said resistance changes among said strain gauges being dependent on the magnitude and direction of said force; each of said strain gauges being a film deposit located on said substrate within the perimeter of said post. 3. A force transducer for generating an electrical response dependent upon the magnitude and direction of an applied force, the transducer comprising: a post and a substrate to which the post is affixed at a first end, a second end of said post being free; a plurality of strain gauges each mounted on said substrate adjacent said post at a selected location and configured for changing resistance in response to a force applied to said post, said resistance changes among said strain gauges being dependent on the magnitude and direction of said force; and a printed circuit board, said substrate being affixed to said printed circuit; four of said strain gauges being configured as a bridge circuit and a fifth said strain gauge being connected in series with said bridge circuit. 4. The force transducer recited in claim 3 wherein said bridge circuit provides force measurement in two orthogonal directions and said fifth strain gauge and bridge circuit provide force measurement in a third orthogonal direction; the transducer further comprising a switch for selectively shorting out said fifth strain gauge. 5. The force transducer recited in claim 1 wherein said three orthogonal directions include two directions in a first plane and a third direction in a second plane and wherein at least some of said plurality of strain gauges measure forces applied to said post in said first plane during a first period of time and measure forces applied to said post in said second plane during a second period of time; said transducer further comprising a switch for configuring said strain gauges in a first configuration during said first period of time and in a second configuration during said second period of time and alternatively switching between said first and second configurations thereafter. 6. The force transducer recited in claim 5 wherein said switch comprises a transistor switch. 7. In a four-strain gauge bridge, single surface layout wherein two such strain gauges on first and second opposite sides of a post are designated for sensing forces in a first direction and two other such strain gauges on third and fourth opposite sides of the post are designated for sensing forces in a second direction, each said strain gauge having a side facing the post and having a side opposite the post, the layout further having electrical pads; a method of interconnecting the strain gauges and pads comprising the stops of: a) for a first strain gauge direction of the bridge directly connecting sides facing the post to each other; b) for that first strain gauge direction of the bridge, connecting one of the strain gauges at its side opposite the post to +V and connecting the other of the strain gauges at its side opposite the post, to electrical ground; c) for the second strain gauge direction of the bridge connecting one strain gauge side opposite said post to the other strain gauge side facing said post by routing through interconnection pads; and d) connecting the remaining strain gauge side opposite said post to +V and connecting the remaining strain gauge side facing said post to ground. 