A microprocessor based controller with a JAVA virtual machine used to control a specific electric arc welder having a switching type power supply for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by rapidly switching a D.C. current in a controlled fashion by a pulse width modulator, which controller displays a waveform generated on an electrically operated waveform screen; allowing manual adjustment of at least a portion of the waveform displayed on the waveform screen to generate a new waveform on the waveform screen; and, operating the pulse width modulator to cause the power supply to create a real time waveform corresponding to the new waveform to execute the control parameters by the electric arc welder.
Claims Having thus defined the invention, the following is claimed: 1. In a microprocessor based controller for a specific electric arc welder having a switching type power supply for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by rapidly switching a D.C. current in a controlled fashion by a pulse width modulator, the improvement comprising: means for displaying a waveform generated on an electrically operated waveform screen; interactive means for manually adjusting at least a portion of said waveform displayed on said waveform screen to generate a new waveform on said waveform screen; and, means for operating said pulse width modulator to cause said power supply to create a real time waveform corresponding to said new waveform to execute said control parameters. 2. The improved controller defined in claim 1 including a series of read out means adjacent said waveform screen for displaying a series of said control parameters of said waveform displayed adjacent said waveform screen as read out values. 3. The improved controller defined in claim 2 including means for manually adjusting one or more of said series of displayed control parameters and means for changing said waveform displayed on said waveform screen to depict a new waveform having said adjusted displayed control parameter and said corresponding read out value. 4. The improved controller as defined in claim 3 including lock control parameter means for manually locking one or more of said series of displayed control parameters at a selected read out value and means for preventing said displayed waveform to be changed from said read out value of said locked control parameter. 5. The improved controller as defined in claim 3 including a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 6. The improved controller as defined in claim 2 including lock control parameter means for manually locking one or more of said series of displayed control parameters at a selected read out value and means for preventing said displayed waveform to be changed from said read out value of said locked control parameter. 7. The improved controller as defined in claim 6 including a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 8. The improved controller as defined in claim 2 including a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 9. The improved controller as defined in claim 8 wherein said interactive means is a mouse. 10. The improved controller as defined in claim 8 including means for actuating said pulse width modulator at a rate of at least about 20 kHz. 11. The improved controller as defined in claim 1 including a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 12. The improved controller as defined in claim 11 wherein said interactive means is a mouse. 13. The improved controller as defined in claim 11 including means for actuating said pulse width modulator at a rate of at least about 20 kHz. 14. The improved controller as defined in claim 11 including a memory for storing the real time operating parameters of said specific electric arc welder as it is implementing said waveform displayed on said waveform screen; means for selecting a scope application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder; means responsive to said selection for shifting, reducing or replacing said waveform screen with a scope screen; and means for plotting said real time operating parameter from said memory on said scope screen. 15. The improvement as defined in claim 14 wherein said operating parameters include at least arc current and arc voltage. 16. The improved controller as defined in claim 1 wherein said interactive means is a mouse. 17. The improved controller as defined in claim 1 including first override means for limiting the value of one or more of said control parameters. 18. The improved controller as defined in claim 17 including second override means for fixing the relationship of one control parameter to another control parameter. 19. The improved controller as defined in claim 18 including a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 20. The improved controller as defined in claim 17 including a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 21. The improved controller as defined in claim 1 including means for actuating said pulse width modulator at a rate of at least about 20 kHz. 22. A method of operating a microprocessor based controller for a specific electric arc welder having a switching type power supply for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by rapidly switching a D.C. current in a controlled fashion by a pulse width modulator, said method comprising the steps of: (a) displaying a waveform generated on an electrically operated waveform screen; (b) manually adjusting at least a portion of said waveform displayed on said waveform screen to generate a new waveform on said waveform screen; and, (c) operating said pulse width modulator to cause said power supply to create said real time waveform corresponding to said new waveform to execute said control parameters. 23. A method as defined in claim 22 including the additional step of: (d) displaying a series of control parameters of said waveform displayed on said waveform screen as read out values adjacent said waveform screen. 24. A method as defined in claim 23 including the steps of: (e) manually adjusting one or more of said series of displayed control parameters; and, (f) changing said waveform displayed on said waveform screen to depict a new waveform having said adjusted displayed control parameter and said corresponding read out value. 25. A method as defined in claim 24 including use of a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 26. A method as defined in claim 23 including the steps of: (e) providing a lock control parameter means for manually locking one or more of said series of displayed control parameters at a selected read out value; and, (f) preventing said new displayed waveform to be changed from said read out value of said locked control parameter. 27. A method as defined in claim 26 including use of a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 28. A method as defined in claim 23 including use of a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 29. A method as defined in claim 22 including use of a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 30. A method as defined in claim 29 including the step of limiting the value of one or more of said control parameters. 31. A method as defined in claim 30 including the step of fixing the relationship of one control parameter to another control parameter. 32. A method as defined in claim 31 including use of a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 33. A method as defined in claim 30 including use of a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 34. A method as defined in claim 22 including the additional steps of: (d) providing a memory for storing the real time operating parameters of said specific electric arc welder as it is implementing said waveform displayed on said waveform screen; (e) selecting a scope application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder; (f) in response to said selection, shifting, reducing or replacing said waveform screen to display a scope screen; and, (g) plotting said real time operating parameter from said memory on said scope screen. 35. A method as defined in claim 34 wherein said operating parameters include at least arc current and arc voltage. 36. An electric arc welder having a switching type power supply for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by rapidly switching a D.C. current in a controlled fashion by a pulse width modulator, said welder having a microprocessor with a JAVA virtual machine and controlled by at least one control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said welder, said microprocessor including hardware with a first interface for an interactive display screen and a second interface for a manual data entry device and I/O means for outputting control parameters to said welder and inputting operation parameters from said welder. 37. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 36 including means for using said data entry device for constructing a waveform on said interactive screen and means for using said I/O means for controlling said pulse width modulator of said welder to cause said welder to perform a welding process using said displayed waveform. 38. A method of operating a welder having a switching type power supply for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by rapidly switching a D.C. current in a controlled fashion by a pulse width modulator, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a microprocessor unit having a JAVA virtual machine and controlled by at least one control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said welder; (b) controlling data displayed on an interactive display screen by signals from said microprocessor; (c) operating a data entry device to change data to change the data on said display screen; (d) creating control parameters by data displayed on said display screen; (e) controlling the operation of said pulse width modulator by said control parameters to create a current waveform at said welder; and, (f) reading operating parameters from said welder for display on said interactive display screen. 39. A method as defined in claim 38 wherein said data displayed on said interactive display screen is a desired waveform for said current waveform of said welder and change of data on said screen changes said displayed waveform and thereby said control parameters used to create said current waveform at said welder. 40. In a microprocessor based controller for a specific electric arc welder having a power supply for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters and determined by an analog voltage control signal tracing a desired waveform having said control parameters, the improvement comprising: means for displaying a waveform generated on an electrically operated waveform screen; interactive means for manually adjusting at least a portion of said waveform displayed on said waveform screen to generate a new waveform on said waveform screen; and, means for creating said analog control signal to create a real time waveform corresponding to said new waveform to execute said control parameters at said welder. 41. The improved controller as defined in claim 40 including a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 42. The improved controller as defined in claim 41 including a memory for storing the real time operating parameters of said specific electric arc welder as it is implementing said waveform displayed on said waveform screen; means for selecting a scope application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder; means responsive to said selection for shifting, reducing or replacing said waveform screen with a scope screen; and means for plotting said real time operating parameter from said memory on said scope screen. 43. The improvement as defined in claim 42 wherein said operating parameters include at least arc current and arc voltage. 44. A method of operating a microprocessor based controller for a specific electric arc welder having a power supply for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters and determined by an analog voltage control signal tracing a desired waveform having said control parameters, said method comprising the steps of: (a) displaying a waveform generated on an electrically operated waveform screen; (b) manually adjusting at least a portion of said waveform displayed on said waveform screen to generate a new waveform on said waveform screen; and, (c) creating said analog control signal to cause said power supply to create said real time waveform corresponding to said new waveform to execute said control parameters. 45. A method as defined in claim 44 including use of a JAVA virtual machine with a welder control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder. 46. A method as defined in claim 44 including the additional steps of: (d) providing a memory for storing the real time operating parameters of said specific electric arc welder as it is implementing said waveform displayed on said waveform screen; (e) selecting a scope application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said specific electric arc welder; (f) in response to said selection, shifting, reducing or replacing said waveform screen to display a scope screen; and, (g) plotting said real time operating parameter from said memory on said scope screen. 47. A method as defined in claim 46 wherein said operating parameters include at least arc current and arc voltage. 48. An electric arc welder having a power supply for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by rapidly switching a D.C. current in a controlled fashion under the control of an analog signal tracing a desired waveform having said control parameters, said welder having a microprocessor with a JAVA virtual machine and controlled by at least one control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said welder, said microprocessor including hardware with a first interface for an interactive display screen and a second interface for a manual data entry device and I/O means for outputting control parameters to said welder and inputting operation parameters from said welder. 49. An electric arc welder as defined in claim 48 including means for using said data entry device for constructing a waveform on said interactive screen and means for using said I/O means for controlling said analog control signal to cause said welder to perform a welding process using said displayed waveform. 50. A method of operating a welder having a power supply for creating a welding cycle with a real time current waveform constituting several control parameters by rapidly switching a D.C. current in a controlled fashion under the control of an analog signal tracing a desired waveform having said control parameters, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a microprocessor unit having a JAVA virtual machine and controlled by at least one control application program in JAVA language and dedicated to said welder; (b) controlling data displayed on an interactive display screen by signals from said microprocessor; (c) operating a data entry device to change data to change the data on said display screen; (d) creating control parameters by data displayed on said display screen; (e) creating said analog control signal with said control parameters to create a current waveform at said welder; and, (f) reading operating parameters from said welder for display on said interactive display screen. 51. A method as defined in claim 50 wherein said data displayed on said interactive display screen is a desired waveform for said current waveform of said welder and change of data on said screen changes said displayed waveform and thereby said control parameters used to create said current waveform at said welder. 