The present disclosure is a method for in situ monitoring of backside contamination on a semiconductor wafer (120) between processing steps which are performed in a multi-chamber tool (500). In a first form, a laser source (220) and a detector (210) are mounted on a robotic arm (110, 111), or within a semiconductor processing tool (500). The laser (220) and detector (210) move along with the robotic arm (110) as the robotic arm (110) shuffles the wafer (120) between processing carriers (610-650) and chambers (510-540). While in transit the backside of the semiconductor wafer (120) is scanned by a laser beam (221), whereby contamination is detected by a detector (210). The laser (220) and detector (210) then scan the backside of the wafer (120) while the robotic arm (110) is in transit and/or while the robotic arm (110) is stationary in the processing sequence. The absolute particle count and differential/incremental particulate counts are calculated on a chamber-by-chamber, and wafer-by-wafer basis, using a data processor (230).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing a semiconductor wafer using a semiconductor processing tool, the method comprising the steps of: placing the semiconductor wafer onto a robotic arm within a semiconductor wafer processing tool; placing the semiconductor wafer into a processing chamber of the semiconductor processing tool by moving the robotic arm to the processing chamber; processing the semiconductor wafer in the processing chamber; removing the semiconductor wafer from the processing chamber using the robotic arm, the robotic arm exposing a backside portion of the semiconductor wafer when the semiconductor wafer is placed onto the robotic arm; and contaminant scanning the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer within the semiconductor processing tool by scanning the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer with an energy source, the contaminant scanning being used to determine if the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer was contaminated during processing in the processing chamber. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of contaminant scanning comprises: scanning the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer using a laser which scans of the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer and is detected by a detector. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of contaminant scanning comprises: contaminant scanning in a region of the semiconductor processing tool where the detector is substantially shielded from ambient light. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of placing the semiconductor wafer onto a robotic arm comprises: providing the robotic arm as a portion of a track that interfaces with a plurality of processing chambers within the semiconductor processing tool. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the robotic arm used in the step of placing is a first robotic arm and the robotic arm used in the step of removing uses a second robotic arm. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the semiconductor wafer has a diameter of at least 300 mm and the step of processing comprises: patterning a line width on the semiconductor wafer having a dimension less than or equal to 0.25 microns. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the energy source is physically mounted onto the robotic arm so that the energy source moves with the robotic arm. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the energy source is physically decoupled from the robotic arm so that robotic arm moves into close proximity with the energy source before the step of contaminant scanning can occur. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the energy source provides a laser beam which is reflected off of the semiconductor wafer and detected by a detector, wherein the energy source and the detector are movable under automated motor control for raster scanning across the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the energy source is a laser and wherein the robotic arm moves while the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer is being irradiated with the laser to enable contaminant scanning of the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: determining if contamination on the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer is out-of-specification; and cleaning the semiconductor wafer if the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer is out-of-specification. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of cleaning comprises: cleaning the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer while not disturbing an active side of the semiconductor wafer. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of cleaning comprises: cleaning the backside portion using a cleaning environment selected from a group consisting of: an organic solvent, and deionized water. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of cleaning comprises: cleaning the backside portion using a cleaning environment selected from a group consisting of: sonic-activated cleaning, a combination of H.sub.2 O.sub.2 and H.sub.2 SO.sub.4, and an alkali-amine solvent. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the semiconductor processing tool contains a plurality of robotic arms wherein each robotic arm in the plurality of robotic arms exposes a backside of the semiconductor wafer for contaminant detection. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of contaminant scanning includes: contaminant scanning the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer to detect particle contamination. 17. The method for claim 1, wherein the step of contaminant scanning includes: contaminant scanning the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer to detect chemical contamination. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of contaminant scanning includes: contaminant scanning the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer to detect physical defects. 19. A method for processing a semiconductor wafer using a semiconductor processing tool, the method comprising the steps of: removing the semiconductor wafer from a semiconductor wafer carrier that is attached to the semiconductor processing tool; placing the semiconductor wafer into a first process chamber of the semiconductor processing tool, the semiconductor wafer being coated with photosensitive material within the first process chamber; removing the semiconductor wafer from the first process chamber using a robotic system; and performing in situ contaminant detection on an exposed backside of the semiconductor wafer using the robotic system. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of: placing the semiconductor wafer into the semiconductor wafer carrier. 21. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of: computer storing a contaminant detection information measured following the step of performing in situ contaminant detection. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising the step of: determining if the semiconductor wafer is contaminated based upon the contaminant detection information. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of: cleaning a backside of the semiconductor wafer if the step of determining determines the semiconductor wafer is contaminated; and placing the semiconductor wafer in the semiconductor wafer carrier when the step of determining determines the semiconductor wafer is not contaminated. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of: cleaning a backside of the semiconductor wafer if the step of determining determines the semiconductor wafer is contaminated placing the semiconductor wafer into a second process chamber of the semiconductor processing tool. 25. The method of claim 22 wherein the robotic system comprises a plurality of robotic arms within the semiconductor processing tool. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein at least one robotic arm in the plurality of robotic arms has an energy source and detector physically attached for performing the step of contaminant detection on the backside of the semiconductor wafer. 27. A method for processing a semiconductor wafer using a semiconductor processing tool, the method comprising the steps of: processing the semiconductor wafer in a processing chamber located within the semiconductor processing tool; removing the semiconductor wafer from the processing chamber using a robotic arm, the robotic arm exposing a backside portion of the semiconductor wafer when the semiconductor wafer is placed onto the robotic arm; and in situ contaminant scanning a predetermined region on the backside portion of the semiconductor wafer, the predetermined region being an area of the backside of the semiconductor wafer which is most likely to be contaminated. 28. A method for processing a semiconductor wafer using a semiconductor processing tool, the method comprising the steps of: processing the semiconductor wafer in a processing chamber; removing the semiconductor wafer from the processing chamber using a robotic interface, the robotic interface having: (1) a robotic arm which enables physical movement of the semiconductor wafer; (2) means for supporting the semiconductor wafer during movement; (3) a laser source physically connected to the robotic arm so that the laser source moves with the robotic arm; (4) and a detector physically connected to the robotic arm so that the detector moves along with the robotic arm; and (5) movement means for moving at least one of the laser source or the detector to scan a backside of the semiconductor wafer when the semiconductor wafer is being supported by the means for supporting; in situ contaminant scanning the backside of the semiconductor wafer using the laser source and the detector within the semiconductor processing tool; and cleaning the semiconductor wafer if the step of in situ contaminant scanning indicates that the semiconductor wafer contains backside contamination beyond a specified threshold. 29. A semiconductor wafer processing tool comprising: a plurality of process chambers; a semiconductor wafer carrier region; a robotic system for transferring semiconductor wafers between the plurality of process chambers and the semiconductor wafer carrier region, the robotic system having at least one robotic motion unit comprising: a robotic arm; means for supporting a semiconductor wafer coupled to the robotic arm; a laser coupled to the robotic arm so that the laser follows the robotic arm as the robotic arm moves between chambers in the plurality of process chambers, the laser being adapted to direct a laser beam at a backside of a semiconductor wafer when the semiconductor wafer is supported by the means for supporting; laser movement means for moving the laser in order to scan the laser along a backside of a semiconductor wafer that is supported by the means for supporting; and a detector coupled to the robotic arm so that the detector follows the robotic arm as the robotic arm moves between chambers in the plurality of process chambers, the detector being adapted to receive laser reflection from the backside of the semiconductor wafer when the semiconductor wafer is supported by the means for supporting; and computer means coupled to the semiconductor wafer processing tool for storing and processing semiconductor wafer contaminant data detected by the detector. 30. A method for processing a semiconductor wafer using a semiconductor processing tool, the method comprising the steps of: removing the semiconductor wafer from a semiconductor wafer carrier that is attached to the semiconductor processing tool; performing in situ contaminant detection on an exposed backside of the semiconductor wafer using a robotic system; placing the semiconductor wafer into a first process chamber of the semiconductor processing tool, the semiconductor wafer being coated with an adhesion-promoting material within the first process chamber; removing the semiconductor wafer from the first process chamber using the robotic system; performing in situ contaminant detection on an exposed backside of the semiconductor wafer using the robotic system; placing the semiconductor wafer into a second process chamber of the semiconductor processing tool, the semiconductor wafer being coated with photosensitive material within the second process chamber; removing the semiconductor wafer from the second process chamber using the robotic system; performing in situ contaminant detection on an exposed backside of the semiconductor wafer using the robotic system; placing the semiconductor wafer into a third process chamber of the semiconductor processing tool, the semiconductor wafer being baked within the third process chamber; removing the semiconductor wafer from the third process chamber using the robotic system; performing in situ contaminant detection on an exposed backside of the semiconductor wafer using the robotic system; placing the semiconductor wafer into a fourth process chamber of the semiconductor processing tool, the semiconductor wafer being lithographically exposed within the fourth process chamber; removing the semiconductor wafer from the fourth process chamber using the robotic system; and performing in situ contaminant detection on an exposed backside of the semiconductor wafer using the robotic system. 31. The method of claim 30 further comprising the steps of: placing the semiconductor wafer into a fifth process chamber of the semiconductor processing tool, the semiconductor wafer being baked in the fifth process chamber; removing the semiconductor wafer from the fifth process chamber using the robotic system; and performing in situ contaminant detection on an exposed backside of the semiconductor wafer using the robotic system. 32. The method of claim 30 further comprising the steps of: placing the semiconductor wafer into a sixth process chamber of the semiconductor processing tool, the semiconductor wafer being developed in the sixth process chamber; removing the semiconductor wafer from the sixth process chamber using the robotic system; and performing in situ contaminant detection on an exposed backside of the semiconductor wafer using the robotic system. 33. The method of claim 30 further comprising the steps of: placing the semiconductor wafer into a seventh process chamber of the semiconductor processing tool, the semiconductor wafer being hard baked in the seventh process chamber; removing the semiconductor wafer from the seventh process chamber using the robotic system; and performing in situ contaminant detection on an exposed backside of the semiconductor wafer using the robotic system; and placing the semiconductor wafer into the semiconductor wafer carrier. 34. The method of claim 30 wherein the step of removing comprises: performing contaminant detection on the semiconductor wafer before processing the semiconductor wafer in the first process chamber to obtain a baseline of backside contamination. 35. The method of claim 30 wherein the step of performing the in situ contaminant detection further comprises: performing the in situ contaminant detection by placing the semiconductor wafer in a contamination detection chamber. 36. The method of claim 30 wherein the step of performing the in situ contaminant detection further comprises: performing the in situ contaminant detection by using the robotic system, wherein the robotic system has an energy source and detector physically attached for performing the steps of contaminant detection on the backside of the semiconductor wafer. 37. The method of claim 30 wherein the steps of removing further comprise: removing the semiconductor substrate using one of a plurality of robotic arms within the semiconductor processing tool. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein a first robotic arm passes the semiconductor wafer to a second robotic arm after processing in the third process chamber and before processing in the fourth process chamber. 39. The method of claim 30, wherein a step of cleaning is performed if one of the contaminant detection steps determines that a contaminant contamination level on a backside of the semiconductor wafer is beyond a specified limit. 40. The method of claim 30, wherein each contaminant detection step stores a contaminant count value and a rate of contamination change value in a database in order to monitor semiconductor wafer contaminant history through the semiconductor processing tool. 