A mounting assembly for thermally coupling a heat sink to a surface mounted heat generating electronic device package. The mounting assembly essentially comprises a heat generating device package, a mounting attachment, and a heat sink. The mounting attachment and heat generating device package are surface mounted to a PCB or other substrate in mutual thermal communication with a thermal pad on the substrate. The mounting attachment is adapted to facilitate the effective dissipation of heat from surface mounted heat generating electronic device packages while allowing for the post-manufacture installation and exchange of heat sinks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A heat sink mounting assembly, comprising: a substrate; a thermal pad supported by said substrate; a heat generating device package surface mounted to said substrate, thermally coupled to said thermal pad; a heat sink mounting attachment mounted to said substrate thermally coupled to said thermal pad, having a body supported above said substrate by two support members extending generally downward from said body, each said support member comprising a leg extending from said body, a foot extending substantially perpendicular from said leg, and a spring clip extending generally upward from said foot; and a heat sink having at least one extension, thermally coupled to said mounting attachment by sliding said extension into said support member, biasing said leg and said spring clip of said support member such that the heat sink extension is held between said leg and said spring clip. 2. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein said substrate is generally planar and said body of said mounting attachment is supported generally parallel to the plane of said substrate and above said heat generating device package. 3. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein the body of said mounting attachment is a perforate body to allow robotic pick and placement of the mounting attachment during assembly and to reduce the mass of said mounting attachment to allow for easy heating to reflow solder during the assembly process. 4. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein said heat sink extension has a feature formed therein and said support member of said mounting attachment has a mating detent formed therein, such that when said heat sink extension is inserted into said support member said detent will engage said feature to secure said heat sink to said mounting attachment. 5. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein said support member of said mounting attachment has a feature formed therein and said heat sink extension has a mating detent formed therein, such that when said heat sink extension is inserted into said support member said detent will engage said feature to secure said heat sink to said mounting attachment. 6. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein said mounting attachment further comprises an overhang extending from said body of said mounting attachment, and said heat generating electronic device further comprises a tab, wherein said overhang is thermally coupled to said tab. 7. The mounting assembly of claim 6, wherein a portion of said overhang of said mounting attachment is substantially parallel to said tab of said heat generating electronic device. 8. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein said extension of said heat sink comprises a leg, a foot, and a spring clip in a generally U-shaped configuration, and said support member comprises a generally planar member, wherein said support member is thermally coupled to said extension by sliding said support member into said extension thereby biasing said leg and said spring clip of said extension such that said support member is held therebetween. 9. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein the height of said support members is such that the body of said heat sink mounting attachment is supported in direct thermal contact with the upper surface of the heat generating device package. 10. The mounting assembly of claim 1, wherein the width of the body of said heat sink mounting attachment is such that the legs of said support members are in direct thermal contact with the heat generating device package. 11. A heat sink mounting attachment for releasably securing a heat sink to a printed circuit board in thermal communication with a heat generating electronic device, comprising: a body; a leg extending substantially downward and perpendicular from said body; a foot extending substantially perpendicular from said leg; a spring clip extending substantially upward and perpendicular from said foot; wherein said foot is adapted to surface mount to a thermal pad on a substrate; and wherein said leg and said spring clip are separated by a distance sufficient to accept an extension from a heat sink such that said spring clip and said leg are biased against the extension of a heat sink. 12. The mounting attachment of claim 11, wherein said support member of said mounting attachment has a detent formed therein and said heat sink extension has a mating feature formed therein, such that when said heat sink extension is inserted into said support member said detent will engage said feature to secure said heat sink to said mounting attachment. 13. The mounting attachment of claim 11, wherein said support member of said mounting attachment has a feature formed therein and said heat sink extension has a mating detent formed therein, such that when said heat sink extension is inserted into said support member said detent will engage said feature to secure said heat sink to said mounting attachment. 14. The mounting attachment of claim 11, further comprising an overhang extending from said body and shaped such that a surface of said overhang can be thermally coupled to a heat dissipating tab of a heat generating electronic device. 15. The mounting assembly of claim 11, wherein said support member of said mounting attachment has a detent formed therein and said heat sink extension has a mating feature formed therein, such that when said heat sink extension is inserted into said support member said detent will engage said feature to secure said heat sink to said mounting attachment. 16. The mounting assembly of claim 11, wherein said support member of said mounting attachment has a feature formed therein and said heat sink extension has a mating detent formed therein, such that when said heat sink extension is inserted into said support member said detent will engage said feature to secure said heat sink to said mounting attachment. 17. The mounting assembly of claim 11, further comprising an overhang extending from said body adapted to thermally connect to the heat dissipating tab of a heat generating electronic device. 18. A heat sink mounting assembly, comprising: a substrate; a thermal pad supported by said substrate; a heat generating device package surface mounted to said substrate having a heat dissipating tab, said heat generating device thermally coupled to said thermal pad; a heat sink mounting attachment surface mounted to said substrate in thermal communication with said thermal pad, having a body supported above said substrate by at least one support member extending from said body; an overhang extending from said body of said mounting attachment thermally connecting said mounting attachment to said tab of said heat generating electronic device; and a heat sink thermally coupled to said mounting attachment. 19. The mounting assembly of claim 18, wherein a portion of said overhang of said mounting attachment is substantially parallel to said tab of said heat generating electronic device package. 20. The mounting assembly of claim 19, wherein said portion of said overhang of said mounting attachment substantially parallel to said tab of said heat generating electronic device package is soldered to said tab of said device package. 21. A heat sink mounting attachment for releasably securing a heat sink to a printed circuit board in thermal communication with a heat generating electronic device, comprising: a body; a leg extending downward and substantially perpendicular from said body; a foot extending substantially perpendicular from said leg; a spring clip extending upward and substantially perpendicular from said foot; wherein said foot is adapted to surface mount to a thermal pad on a substrate; and wherein said leg and said spring clip are separated by a distance sufficient to accept an extension from a heat sink such that said spring clip and said leg are biased against the extension of a heat sink. 22. A heat sink mounting assembly, comprising: a substrate; a thermal pad supported by said substrate; a heat generating device package surface mounted to said substrate having a heat dissipating tab, said heat generating device thermally coupled to said thermal pad; a heat sink mounting attachment surface mounted to said substrate in thermal communication with said thermal pad, having a body supported above said substrate by at least one support member extending from said body; an overhang extending from said body of said mounting attachment thermally connecting said mounting attachment to said tab of said heat generating device package; and a heat sink thermally coupled to said mounting attachment. 