A transformer assembly, particularly for data and audio signals, has first and second bobbins which are telescoped within one another. A method of assembling a transformer assembly is provided which comprises providing first and second bobbins, coils around the bobbins and, as a first step, slidably mounting the bobbins within one another. The core is preformed or comprises laminations formed as E's and I's, which are then fitted through the assembly cap and the bobbins. The cap provides a receptacle for the core, and retains the laminations in position. To secure the laminations in position, an assembly cup is mounted around the outside of the laminations. The assembly cup can include springs or the like, to maintain the laminations in position and allow for expansion and contraction. The springs can additionally mechanically secure the transformer in position. The bobbins, cap, core and cup can be encapsulated together.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of assembling a transformer assembly, the method comprising: (a) providing first and second bobbins each having a main bobbin portion, with each main bobbin portion defining a bore and with the bore of the second main bobbin portion being adapted to receive the main bobbin portion of the first bobbin; (b) providing a coil around the main bobbin portion of each of the first and second bobbins; (c) slidably mounting the main bobbin portion of the first bobbin within the second bobbin; (d) mounting the first and second bobbins within an assembly cap including a central portion having end walls provided with openings, the openings being aligned with the bores of the first and second bobbins; (e) mounting laminations around the bobbin assembly, with the laminations extending through the bores of the first and second bobbins and the openings of the assembly cap; (f) mounting the first and second bobbins, the laminations and the assembly cap in an assembly cup to retain the laminations in position. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, which includes an additional step: (g) filling the assembly cap with resin to encase the bobbins within the assembly cap. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2, when carried out with first and second bobbins, each having first and second end flanges, with the second end flange of the first bobbin being dimensioned to fit within the bore of the second bobbin and the first and second end flanges of the second bobbin all having generally similar dimensions, wherein step (c) comprises slidably mounting the main bobbin portion of the first bobbin within the second bobbin until the first end flange of the first bobbin comes into abutment against the second end flange of the second bobbin. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the axial length of the first bobbin is a few thousandths of an inch longer than the spacing between the end walls of the assembly cap, wherein step (d) comprises sliding the first and second bobbins between the end walls of the assembly cap so as to form an interference fit which is substantially impervious to resin, whereby when the assembly cap is filled with resin, in step (g), resin is substantially prevented from coming into contact with the laminations. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the first flanges at least of the bobbins are provided with bevelled edges, and wherein step (d) comprises first engaging the bevelled edges with the end walls of the assembly cap and then sliding the end flanges between the end walls of the assembly cap. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5, when carried out with first and second bobbins, each of which includes a mounting flange extending generally perpendicular to the respective end flange, and a plurality of connecting pins mounted in their respective flange and connected to the coil thereof and a cup including a downwardly extending lip, wherein step (d) includes engaging the mounting flanges within the downwardly extending lip and step (g) includes filling the assembly cap with resin such that upper ends of the connecting pins are encased in resin. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6, when carried out with laminations comprising a first group of laminations having a generally E-shape and a second group of laminations selected from one of a generally I-shape and an E-shape, wherein step (e) comprises mounting the laminations around the bobbin assembly with the E-shaped laminations extending through the bore of the first bobbin and providing a layer of insulation between the first and second groups of the laminations to electrically insulate the first and second groups of laminations from one another. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7, which includes providing spring means within the assembly cup and in step (f) engaging the laminations with the spring means, whereby the laminations are resiliently biassed into position, while being permitted to freely expand due to thermal effects. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8, when carried out with first and second bobbin bodies, at least one of which includes protrusion means, for forming an interference fit between the first and second bobbin bodies, wherein step (c) comprises slidably mounting the main bobbin portion of the first bobbin within the second bobbin until the protrusion means is engaged, thereby to form a firm, interference fit between the first and second bobbin bodies. 