An automated well servicing system comprised of computer controlled tong assemblies, a remote controlled robotic racking system and unique slips and backup clamps. The system has a pair of tong assemblies for automatically disconnecting or connecting rods or tubes. Each tong assembly is pivotally mounted on the frame of a vehicle for deployment once the vehicle is parked at a well head and includes power tongs, backup clamps and slips mounted on hydraulically operated carriers for positioning over a well head. A robotic rod tubular handler controlled by a joy stick mounted on the waist of a floor man permits remote racking of rods and tubes. A slip assembly is provided comprised of a pair of housings forming a conical cavity and a conical mandrel having pins or slugs that clamp a tubular string when the two housings are pressed together. The slips are also constructed to maintain the clamping force on a string until a hoist and elevator lifts the string a short distance activating a proximity switch to release the string. The system also includes a unique elevator head having interchangeable plates to change the system from handling rods to handling tubes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile oil well servicing system having a derrick and hydraulic system mounted on the chassis of a vehicle the improvement comprising; automatic tong assembly means pivotally mounted on said derrick for automatically disconnecting and reconnecting tubulars to service an oil well; automatic deploying means for automatically deploying said tong assembly means into engagement with a tubular string; remote controlled tubular racking means for racking and unracking tubulars when a well is being serviced; hoist means for raising and lowering a tubular string during well servicing; whereby a well may be serviced with minimum handling of servicing equipment by personnel. 2. The system according to claim 1 in which said automatic tong assembly means comprises; frame means pivotally mounted on said derrick; tong means mounted on said frame means; hydraulic moving means for moving tong means into and out of engagement with a tubular string; said hydraulic moving means including automatic control means for automatically deploying said tong means into engagement with a tubular string, rotating a string section to disconnect or connect said section from the tubular string; and retracting said tong means when the disconnection or connection is complete. 3. The system according to claim 2 in which said tong assembly means includes backup clamps for clamping on said tubular string while said tong means is disconnecting or connecting a tubular section. 4. The system according to claim 3 in which said backup clamps includes a pair of clamping jaws; and hydraulic jaw opening and closing means; said automatic control means automatically closing said backup clamps when said tong means is moved into engagement with said tubular string. 5. The system according to claim 4 in which said backup clamp includes a cam follower; said cam follower controlling closure of said clamping jaws when said tubular string is properly positioned. 6. The system according to claim 2 in which said automatic control means includes detecting means for detecting when said tong means has completed a disconnecting or connecting operation. 7. The system according to claim 6 in which said detecting means comprises a pair of proximity switches mounted in said tong means; said proximity switches counting the number of complete rotations of said tong means; whereby said automatic control means stops said tong means after a predetermined number of rotations. 8. The system according to claim 7 in which said detection means is adapted to count between 8 and 15 rotations. 9. The system according to claim 8 in which said automatic control means automatically backs said tong means up to an open position when a disconnecting or connecting operation is complete. 10. The system according to claim 3 in which said tong means and said backup clamps are mounted on a hydraulically operated carrier for moving said tong assembly into and out of engagement with said tubular string. 11. The system according to claim 10 in which said tong assembly includes slip means mounted on said pivotally mounted frame; and hydraulic slip moving means for moving said slip means into and out of position on a well head around said tubular string. 12. The system according to claim 11 in which said slip means includes lift detecting means for detecting a lifting force by said hoist means; said lift detecting means preventing said slip means from releasing a tubular string until said hoist means has a firm grip on said tubular string. 13. The system according to claim 12 in which said lift detecting means comprises a proximity switch on said slip means for detecting a lifting movement of said slip means when said hoist means has a firm grip on said tubular string. 14. The system according to claim 13 in which said pivotally mounted frame means comprises an upper rail; a lower rail; a rotatable cylinder supporting said upper and lower rails; hydraulic means for lifting said rotatably cylinder to adjust the height of said tong assembly means for different well heads. 15. The system according to claim 14 including means mounting said tong means on said upper rail for movement toward or away from said tubular string. 16. The system according to claim 15 in which said mounting means comprises a carrier mounted on said upper rail. 17. The system according to claim 16 in which said backup clamp means is mounted on said carrier for movement with said tong means. 18. The system according to claim 17 including slip mounting means mounting said slip clamping means on said lower rail for movement toward or away from a well head. 19. The system according to claim 18 in which said slip mounting means comprises a carrier mounted on said lower rail; and means for moving said carrier forward or backward on said rail. 20. The system according to claim 11 in which said slip means comprises; a lower housing having a conical shaped cavity; a conical shaped mandrel constructed to fit said cavity; a plurality of axially movable slugs mounted in slots in said conical shaped mandrel; said axially movable slugs being movable toward an axis through said lower housing and said conical shaped mandrel when said conical shaped mandrel is pressed into said conical shaped cavity; whereby said slugs clamp a tubular passing through said lower housing and said conically shaped cavity. 21. The system according to claim 20 including hydraulic means for pressing said conical shaped mandrel into said conically shaped cavity in said housing. 22. The system according to claims 21 including release means for releasing a tubular comprising; a proximity switch mounted on a base of said slip means; said proximity switch releasing said tubular clamped in said plurality of slugs when said slip means is lifted a predetermined distance; whereby said release means prevents release of a tubular string until said tubular string is securely gripped and lifted by a hoisting block and a clamping elevator. 23. The system according to claim 22 including a clamping elevator for clamping on a tubular string; a hoisting block for lifting said clamping elevator with said tubular string; and interchangeable means in said clamping elevator to change said clamping elevator from a rod clamping means to a pipe clamping means. 24. The system according to claim 23 in which said interchangeable means comprises; a pair of pivotally hinged plates mounted on said clamping elevator; said pivotally hinged plates forming an aperture sized for clamping and lifting a rod string or a pipe string. 25. The system according to claim 24 including manual lifting means for lifting one of said interchangeable pivotally hinged plates to manual release a string from said clamping elevator. 26. The system according to claim 25 in which said elevator has a rectangular recess; said pivotally hinged plates constructed to fit said rectangular recess; and pin means passing through opposite ends of said pair of pivotally mounted plates to hingedly secure said pivotally mounted plates in said rectangular recess. 27. The system according to claim 11 including automatic positioning means for positioning said tong assembly during deployment over a well head. 28. The system according to claim 2 in which said automatic positioning means comprises a proximity switch mounted on said hydraulically operated carrier and target means mounted on said slip moving means whereby said tong assembly automatically stops over the position of said slips during deployment. 