A drying apparatus 20 for removing residual liquid from a substrate surface comprises a vapor chamber 25 having a vapor distributor 30 for introducing vapor into the chamber. The drying apparatus 20 further comprises a fluid system 35 comprising (i) a reservoir 40, (ii) a fluid dispenser 45 for introducing fluid into the reservoir, and (iii) a fluid level adjuster 50 for lowering a fluid surface level in the reservoir 40. A multi-point holder 62 is used for holding the substrate 55 at different holding points 63 on the substrate, while the fluid surface level is lowered relative to the substrate, so that residual liquid flows off the substrate surface without intersection of the lowering fluid surface level with holding points 63 on the substrate. The drying apparatus 20 dries substrates 55 substantially without forming stains or streaks, or causing contamination or liquid residue to remain on the substrate 55.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A drying chamber for drying a substrate surface having residual liquid thereon, the drying chamber comprising: (a) a vapor distributor for introducing vapor into the chamber; (b) a fluid system comprising (i) a reservoir, (ii) a fluid dispenser for introducing fluid into the reservoir, and (iii) a fluid level adjuster for lowering a fluid surface level in the reservoir; and (c) a multi-point holder having holding surfaces that contact and hold the substrate at different holding points on the substrate, the multi-point holder capable of withdrawing contact of one or more of the holding surfaces from the substrate as the fluid surface level is lowered so that the lowering fluid surface level does not pass across a holding point that is being used to hold the substrate. 2. The drying chamber of claim 1 wherein the multi-point holder holds the substrate at first holding points while the fluid surface level is lowered through a first range of levels that do not pass across the first holding points, and holds substrate at second holding points while the fluid surface level is lowered through a second range of levels that do not pass across the second holding points. 3. The drying chamber of claim 1 wherein the multipoint holder comprises at least one of the following: (1) one or more holding clamps having holding surfaces that contact and hold the substrate at holding points along the perimeter of the substrate; (2) a plurality of rollers having arcuate surfaces that serve as the holding surfaces for contacting and holding the substrate; or (3) a plurality of rotable cams having contact tips that serve as the holding surfaces for contacting and holding the substrate. 4. The drying chamber of claim 1 wherein the vapor distributor comprises a movable vapor inlet having inlet ports for introducing vapor into the chamber. 5. The drying chamber of claim 4 wherein the vapor distributor comprises a movable vapor exhaust having exhaust ports for exhausting the vapor. 6. The drying chamber of claim 5 wherein the vapor distributor comprises a floating vapor inlet having inlet ports for introducing vapor into the chamber, and a floating vapor exhaust having exhaust ports for exhausting the vapor. 7. The drying chamber of claim 1 wherein the multi-point holder comprises holding surfaces that contact and hold the substrate at different holding points that are selected in relation to the position of the fluid surface level. 8. An apparatus for removing residual liquid on a substrate surface, the apparatus comprising: (a) a reservoir for containing fluid having a fluid surface level; (b) a vapor distributor for maintaining a partial pressure of vapor over the fluid surface level; (c) a fluid dispenser for dispensing fresh fluid into the reservoir; (d) first means for lowering the fluid surface level through a range of levels; and (e) second means for contacting and holding the substrate at different holding points on the substrate and withdrawing contact from the substrate at one or more of the holding points as the fluid surface level is lowered so that the fluid surface level does not pass across a holding point that is being used to hold the substrate. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the second means holds the substrate at first holding points outside a first range of levels through which the fluid surface level is lowered, and thereafter, holds the substrate at second holding points outside a second range of levels through which the fluid surface is lowered. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the vapor distributor comprises a floating vapor inlet having inlet ports for introducing vapor into the chamber, and a floating vapor exhaust having exhaust ports for exhausting the vapor, the inlet and exhaust ports substantially facing one another. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the second means contacts and holds the substrate at different holding points that are selected in relation to the position of the fluid surface level. 12. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the second means comprises at least one of the following: (1) one or more holding clamps having holding surfaces that contact and hold the substrate at holding points along the perimeter of the substrate; (2) a plurality of rollers having arcuate surfaces that contact and hold the substrate; or (3) a plurality of rotable cams having contact tips that contact and hold the substrate. 13. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the vapor distributor comprises a movable vapor inlet having inlet ports for introducing vapor into the chamber. 14. A drying chamber for drying substrates having residual liquid thereon, the drying chamber comprising: (a) a fluid system comprising a reservoir for containing fluid having a fluid surface level and a fluid dispenser for introducing fluid into the reservoir; (b) a vapor distributor for supplying a vapor above the fluid surface level; (c) first means for lowering-the fluid surface level in the reservoir to cause residual liquid to flow off the substrates; and (d) second means for contacting and holding the substrate at different holding points on the substrate, and withdrawing contact at one or more of the holding points as the residual liquid flows off the substrate. 15. The drying chamber of claim 14 wherein the first means comprises a fluid draining system. 16. The drying chamber of claim 14 wherein the second means holds the substrate at different holding points that are selected in relation to the position of the fluid surface level. 17. The drying chamber of claim 14 wherein the second means is adapted to hold the substrate at first holding points as the residual liquid flows off a first portion of the substrate, and to hold the substrate at second holding points as the residual liquid flows off a second portion of the substrate. 18. The drying chamber of claim 14 wherein the second means comprises at least one of the following: (1) one or more holding clamps having holding surfaces that contact and hold the substrate at holding points along the perimeter of the substrate; (2) a plurality of rollers having arcuate surfaces that contact and hold the substrate; or (3) a plurality of rotable cams having contact tips that contact and hold the substrate. 19. The drying chamber of claim 14 wherein the vapor distributor comprises a movable vapor inlet having inlet ports for introducing vapor into the chamber. 20. The drying chamber of claim 14 wherein the vapor distributor comprises a movable vapor exhaust having exhaust ports for exhausting the vapor. 21. The drying chamber of claim 14 wherein the vapor distributor comprises a floating vapor inlet having inlet ports for introducing vapor into the chamber, and a floating vapor exhaust having exhaust ports for exhausting the vapor. 22. The drying chamber of claim 21 wherein the vapor distributor comprises inlet ports and exhaust ports that substantially face one another. 