A semiconductor workpiece holder used in electroplating systems for plating metal layers onto a semiconductor workpieces, and is of particular advantage in connection with plating copper onto semiconductor materials. The workpiece holder includes electrode assemblies which have a contact part which connects to a distal end of an electrode shaft and bears against the workpiece and conducts current therebetween. The contact part is preferably made from a corrosion resistant material, such as platinum. The electrode assembly also preferably includes a dielectric layer which covers the distal end of the electrode shaft and seals against the contact part to prevent plating liquid from corroding the joint between these parts.
Claims We claim: 1. A semiconductor workpiece holder for use in a semiconductor electroplating apparatus used to plate a metal or metals onto a semiconductor workpiece, comprising: a workpiece support mounted to support a semiconductor workpiece in position with at least a processed surface of the workpiece being in contact with a plating bath; at least one electrode finger which is electrically conductive and capable of receiving and conducting electrical current therethrough; said at least one electrode finger having an electrode shaft which extends toward a distal end; a contact part mounted to the distal end of the electrode shaft to provide an electrical contact face which bears upon the semiconductor workpiece during processing to communicate electrical current therethrough. 2. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 1 wherein said contact part is made from a corrosion resistant metal. 3. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 1 wherein said contact part is made from platinum. 4. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 1 wherein said electrode shaft is made from a stainless steel or titanium. 5. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 1 wherein: said contact part is made from platinum; said electrode shaft is made from a stainless steel or titanium. 6. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 1 and further comprising a dielectric layer formed about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal against side walls of the contact part to exclude plating liquid from a joint formed between the electrode shaft and the contact part. 7. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 1 and further comprising a dielectric layer formed from a dielectric plastic material about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal against side walls of the contact part to exclude plating liquid from a joint formed between the electrode shaft and the contact part. 8. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 1 and further comprising a dielectric layer formed from polyvinylidene fluoride about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal against side walls of the contact part to exclude plating liquid from a joint formed between the electrode shaft and the contact part. 9. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 1 and further comprising a dielectric layer coated about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal against side walls of the contact part to exclude plating liquid from a joint formed between the electrode shaft and the contact part. 10. A semiconductor workpiece holder for use in a semiconductor electroplating apparatus used to plate a copper material onto a semiconductor workpiece, comprising: a workpiece support mounted to support a semiconductor workpiece in position with at least a processed surface of the workpiece being in contact with a plating bath; at least one electrode finger which is electrically conductive and capable of receiving and conducting electrical current therethrough; said at least one electrode finger having an electrode shaft which extends toward a distal end; a contact part mounted to the distal end of the electrode shaft to provide an electrical contact face which bears upon the semiconductor workpiece during processing to communicate electrical current therethrough. 11. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 10 wherein said contact part is made from a corrosion resistant metal. 12. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 10 wherein said contact part is made from platinum. 13. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 10 and further comprising a dielectric layer formed about the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal against side walls of the contact part to exclude plating liquid from a joint formed between the electrode shaft and the contact part. 14. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 10 and further comprising a dielectric layer formed from a dielectric plastic material about the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal against side walls of the contact part to exclude plating liquid from a joint formed between the electrode shaft and the contact part. 15. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 10 and further comprising a dielectric layer formed from polyvinylidene fluoride about the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal against side walls of the contact part to exclude plating liquid from a joint formed between the electrode shaft and the contact part. 16. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 10 and further comprising a dielectric layer coated about the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal against side walls of the contact part to exclude plating liquid from a joint formed between the electrode shaft and the contact part. 17. A semiconductor workpiece holder for use in a semiconductor electroplating apparatus used to plate a metal or metals onto a semiconductor workpiece, comprising: a workpiece support mounted to support a semiconductor workpiece in position with at least a processed surface of the workpiece being in contact with a plating bath; at least one electrode finger which is electrically conductive and capable of receiving and conducting electrical current therethrough; said at least one electrode finger having an electrode shaft which extends toward a distal end; a contact part mounted to the distal end of the electrode shaft to provide an electrical contact face which bears upon the semiconductor workpiece during processing to communicate electrical current therethrough; a dielectric layer formed about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft and against the contact part to exclude plating liquid from a joint formed between the electrode shaft and the contact part. 18. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein said contact part is made from a corrosion resistant metal. 19. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein said contact part is made from platinum. 20. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein said electrode shaft is made from a stainless steel or titanium. 21. A semiconductor workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein: said contact part is made from platinum; said electrode shaft is made from a stainless steel or titanium. 22. A semiconductor workpiece holder for use in a semiconductor electroplating apparatus used to plate a metal or metals onto a semiconductor workpiece, comprising: a workpiece support mounted to support a semiconductor workpiece in position with at least a processed surface of the workpiece being in contact with a plating bath; at least one electrode finger which is electrically conductive and capable of receiving and conducting electrical current therethrough; said at least one electrode finger having an electrode shaft which extends toward a distal end; a contact part mounted to the distal end of the electrode shaft to provide an electrical contact face which bears upon the semiconductor workpiece during processing to communicate electrical current therethrough; means forming a dielectric covering about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft and against the contact part to exclude plating liquid from a joint formed between the electrode shaft and the contact part. 23. A method for plating a metal onto the surface of a semiconductor workpiece, comprising: contacting a surface of the semiconductor workpiece with an electrode assembly; said contacting being performed using a contact face formed upon a contact part, said contact part being mounted to a distal end of an electrode shaft at a contact part joint existing between the electrode shaft and the contact part; said electrode assembly further having a dielectric layer formed about the distal end of the electrode shaft and in sealing relationship against the contact part; submersing a processed surface of the semiconductor workpiece into a plating bath liquid which is used to plate a metal onto the processed surface of the semiconductor workpiece; excluding plating bath liquid from the contact part joint using said dielectric layer; electroplating a metal onto the semiconductor workpiece by passing electrical current through the contact part and between the semiconductor workpiece and the electrode assembly. 24. A method according to claim 23 wherein said contact part is made from a noncorrosive metal. 25. A method according to claim 23 wherein said contact part is made from platinum. 26. A method for plating copper onto the surface of a semiconductor workpiece, comprising: contacting a surface of the semiconductor workpiece with an electrode assembly; said contacting being performed using a contact face formed upon a contact part, said contact part being mounted to a distal end of an electrode shaft at a contact part joint existing between the electrode shaft and the contact part; said electrode assembly further having a dielectric layer formed about the distal end of the electrode shaft and in sealing relationship against the contact part; submersing a processed surface of the semiconductor workpiece into a plating bath liquid which is used to plate copper onto the processed surface of the semiconductor workpiece; excluding plating bath liquid from the contact part joint using said dielectric layer; electroplating copper onto the semiconductor workpiece by passing electrical current through the contact part and between the semiconductor workpiece and the electrode assembly. 27. A method according to claim 26 wherein said contact part is made from a noncorrosive metal. 28. A method according to claim 26 wherein said contact part is made from platinum. 