A pneumatic isolator supports a payload and dampens the vertical and/or horizontal motion of the payload. The isolator has an air chamber and a damping chamber. A viscous medium is disposed in the damping chamber. A gimbal piston head is flexibly secured to the isolator and a piston well extends downwardly from the piston head and is immersed in the viscous medium. A support rod supports the payload, passes through and is supported by the piston well. The outer surface of the piston well is spaced apart from the opposed surface of the damping chamber and defines a gap therebetween. When horizontal and/or vertical motion acts on the isolator, the piston well moves displacing the viscous medium in the gap resulting in a damping force which is generally proportional and opposite to the velocity of the piston well moving against the viscous medium.
Claims Having described my invention, what I now claim is: 1. A pneumatic isolator which supports and isolates a payload in three degrees of freedom, the isolator comprising: a housing which defines an air chamber, the air chamber having therein a damping chamber defined by a chamber surface; viscous medium disposed in the damping chamber; a bob secured to the payload such that there is no vertical motion between the payload and the bob; and means for flexibly securing the bob to the housing, the bob immersed in the viscous medium, the bob having an outer surface spaced apart from an opposed surface of the damping chamber and defining a gap therebetween, the viscous medium filling a portion of the gap the remaining portion of the gap filled with a gas, the bob adapted to move in said gap in response to horizontal and/or vertical motion of the payload causing said viscous medium to be displaced resulting in a damping force applied to the payload. 2. The isolator of claim 1 wherein a rod is secured to both the payload and the bob such that there is no vertical motion between the payload and the bob. 3. The isolator of claim 1 wherein the bob comprises a gimbal piston head flexibly secured to the housing and a piston well which depends from the piston head, the outer surface of the piston well comprising the outer surface of the bob. 4. The isolator of claim 3 which comprises a rod having an upper end and a lower end, the rod is received within the piston well and the piston well is characterized by a bearing surface at the lower end thereof which surface engages the lower end of the rod and the upper end of the rod engages the payload. 5. The isolator of claim 4 comprising: an elastomeric material on the bearing surface and wherein the rod is received on the elastomeric material and centered within the piston well. 6. The isolator of claim 3 comprising: means for limiting the vertical travel of the piston well within the housing. 7. The isolator of claim 3 wherein the means for flexibly securing the bob to the housing comprises a diaphragm which secures the gimbal piston head to the housing. 8. The isolator of claim 1 wherein the damping chamber is a tube-like chamber. 9. The isolator of claims 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 wherein the damping force is generally proportional and opposite to the velocity of the piston well moving against the viscous medium. 10. The isolator of claim 9 wherein the viscous medium is a mineral oil. 11. The isolator of claim 10 wherein the mineral oil has a viscosity in a range of between about 10,000 to 1,000,000 cst. 12. A pneumatic isolator which supports and isolates a payload in three degrees of freedom the isolator comprising: a housing which defines an air chamber, the air chamber having therein a damping chamber defined by a chamber surface; viscous medium disposed in the damping chamber; a gimbal piston head flexibly secured to the housing, a piston well depending from the piston head, the piston well immersed in the viscous medium, the outer surface of the piston well and the opposed surface of the damping chamber defining a gap therebetween, the viscous medium filling a portion of the gap the remaining portion of the gap filled with a gas; a rod having an upper and a lower end, the upper end engaging and supporting the payload, the lower end received and supported in the piston well, the rod secured to the payload such that there is no vertical motion between the payload and the rod; the piston well adapted to move in said gap in response to horizontal and/or vertical motion of the payload causing said viscous medium to be displaced resulting in a damping force applied to the payload. 13. The isolator of claim 12 wherein a diaphragm flexibly secures the gimbal piston head to the housing. 14. The isolator of claim 12 wherein the damping chamber is a tube-like chamber. 15. The isolator of claim 12 wherein the chamber has a bearing surface which supports the rod. 16. The isolator of claim 15 wherein there is an elastomeric material received on the bearing surface to center the rod. 17. The isolator of claim 16 wherein the viscous medium is a mineral oil. 18. The isolator of claims 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 or 17 wherein the damping force is generally proportional and opposite to the velocity of the piston well moving against the viscous medium. 