A polishing method and a compact apparatus for the method are presented for efficient production of a polished workpiece for manufacturing high technology devices. The polishing method comprises a first and second steps for polishing a work surface. In the first polishing step, the work surface is pressed against an abrading surface of a first polishing tool which is being rotated. In the second step, the work surface is pressed against a rubbing surface of a second polishing tool which is being moved in a planar translation motion relatively to the work surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for polishing a workpiece comprising: a first step for polishing a work surface of said workpiece by pressing said work surface against an abrading surface of a first polishing tool which is being rotated; and a second step for processing said work surface by pressing said work surface against a rubbing surface of a second polishing tool which is being moved in a planar translation motion relatively to said work surface. 2. A polishing method according to claim 1, wherein, in said second step, said relative translation motion is a circulative motion having a certain pattern. 3. A polishing method according to claim 2, wherein, in said second step, at least one of said workpiece and said polishing tool is rotated with a period of rotation significantly in excess of a period of said circulative translation motion. 4. A polishing method according to claim 1, wherein, in said second step, said relative translation motion is provided by moving said second polishing tool. 5. A polishing method according to claim 1, wherein, in said second step, said relative translation motion is a random motion. 6. A polishing method according to claim 5, wherein, in said second step, said random relative translation motion is provided as a sum vector of at least two linear motion. 7. A polishing method according to claim 1, wherein a pressing pressure for pressing said work surface against an abrading surface of said first polishing tool is 200.about.500 g/cm.sup.2 and a pressing pressure for pressing said work surface against an rubbing surface of said second polishing tool is 0.about.200 g/cm.sup.2. 8. A polishing method according to claim 1, wherein, in said second step, purified water is used as a polishing solution. 9. A polishing apparatus comprising: a first polishing section having a first polishing tool, said first polishing tool having an abrading surface and being rotatable along said abrading surface, and a pressing device for forcing a work surface of a workpiece against said abrading surface; and a second polishing section having a second polishing tool and a pressing device for forcing said work surface against a rubbing surface of said second polishing tool, said second polishing tool being movable in a planar translation motion relative to said work surface. 10. A polishing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said second polishing section comprises: a support section for supporting said second polishing tool so as to enable a circulative translation motion; and a driving device to enable said support section to maintain said circulative translation motion. 11. A polishing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said driving device comprises a driving end member having an axis displaced with respect to a rotational axis of a drive source of said driving device and said support section comprises a cavity for operatively coupling with said driving end member. 12. A polishing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein a pressing pressure for pressing said work surface against an abrading surface of said first polishing tool is 200.about.500 g/cm.sup.2 and a pressing pressure for pressing said work surface against an rubbing surface of said second polishing tool is 0.about.200 g/cm.sup.2. 13. A polishing apparatus comprising: a support base; a surface plate having a top surface for attaching a polishing tool; a support section for supporting said surface plate so as to enable a circulative translation motion; and a driving device to enable said surface plate to maintain said circulative translation motion. 14. A polishing apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said support section supports said surface plate at not less than three locations around a periphery of said surface plate. 15. A polishing apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said support section comprises a connecting member having a pair of shafts, each having an axis which is displaced from each other, so as to enable each shaft to be located in a respective cavity formed on said surface plate and on said support base. 16. A polishing apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said surface plate includes a polishing solution supply passage opening at said top surface. 17. A polishing apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said driving device comprises a driving end member having an axis displaced with respect to a rotational axis of a drive source of said driving device and said surface plate comprises a cavity for operatively coupling with said driving end member. 18. A polishing apparatus comprising: a support base; a surface plate having a top surface for attaching a polishing tool; a first support section for supporting said surface plate so as to enable a linear translation motion in a first direction; a second support section for supporting said first support section so as to enable a linear translation motion in a second direction different to said first direction and driving means for driving said surface plate and said first and second support sections to maintain said linear translation motion. 19. A method for polishing a workpiece comprising: a first step for polishing a work surface of said workpiece by pressing said work surface against an abrading surface of a first polishing tool which is being rotated; and a second step for processing said work surface by pressing said work surface against a rubbing surface of a second polishing tool which is substantially being moved in a planar translation motion relative to said work surface. 20. A polishing method according to claim 19, wherein, said second polishing tool is moved substantially without relative rotation to said work surface. 21. A polishing apparatus comprising: a first polishing section having a first polishing tool, said first polishing tool having an abrading surface and being rotatable along said abrading surface, and a pressing device for forcing a work surface of a workpiece against said abrading surface; and a second polishing section having a second polishing tool and a pressing device for forcing said work surface against a rubbing surface of said second polishing tool, said second polishing tool being movable substantially in a planar translation motion relative to said work surface. 22. A polishing apparatus according to claim 21, wherein, said second polishing tool is moved substantially without relative rotation to said work surface. 