The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for high temperature (at least about 500-800.degree. C.) processing of semiconductor wafers. The systems, methods and apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and to ensure high quality processing for high aspect ratio devices. Performing multiple process steps in the same chamber also increases the control of the process parameters and reduces device damage. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for forming an ultra-shallow doped region in a substrate in a chamber, said process comprising the steps of: depositing a doped silicon oxide film on said substrate on a heater at a temperature of at least 500.degree. C. from a reaction of silicon, oxygen and dopants in said chamber, wherein said doped silicon oxide film includes dopant atoms, and wherein said chamber is at a pressure of between about 100-760 torr; and heating said doped silicon oxide film to diffuse said dopant atoms into said substrate to form said ultra-shallow doped region. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said ultra-shallow region formed in said substrate is selected from a group consisting of a source region, a drain region, a lightly doped drain region, and a channel-stop region in shallow trench isolation. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein said heating step diffuses said dopant atoms into said substrate to form said ultra-shallow region to a depth of less than about 0.1 .mu.m. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein said heating step diffuses said dopant atoms into said substrate to form said ultra-shallow region to a depth of less than about 0.35 .mu.m. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein said heating step is at between about 950-1050.degree. C. for about 1-2 minutes. 6. The process of claim 1 wherein said heating step is at about 1050.degree. C. for about 1 minute. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein said heating step is done in situ by heating said heater in said chamber. 8. The process of claim 1, wherein said silicon is from TEOS and said oxygen is from ozone. 9. The process of claim 1, wherein said process further comprises the step of removing said doped silicon oxide film from said substrate after said heating step. 10. The process of claim 8 wherein said doped silicon oxide film comprises a film selected from a group consisting of a borosilicate glass (BSG) film and a phosphosilicate glass (PSG) film. 11. The process of claim 10 wherein said doped silicon oxide film is between about 50-500 .ANG. thick. 12. A process for forming an ultra-shallow doped region in a substrate in a chamber, said process comprising the steps of: depositing a doped silicon oxide film on said substrate on a heater at a temperature of at least 500.degree. C. from a reaction of silicon, oxygen and dopants in said chamber, wherein said doped silicon oxide film includes dopant atoms, and wherein said chamber is at a pressure of between about 100-760 torr; and heating said doped silicon oxide film to diffuse said dopant atoms into said substrate to form said ultra-shallow doped region; depositing an undoped silicate glass (USG) film on said doped silicon oxide film from a reaction of silicon and oxygen in said chamber, wherein said USG film depositing step is performed after said doped silicon oxide film depositing step; and removing said USG film and said doped silicon oxide film after said heating step. 13. The process of claim 12 wherein said USG film depositing step is done at a pressure of between about 50-760 torr in said chamber, and said heater at a temperature of between about 200-600.degree. C. 14. The process of claim 12 wherein deposition of said USG film is performed immediately after deposition of said doped silicon oxide film in an in situ process in said chamber. 15. The process of claim 12 further comprising cleaning the substrate of native oxides in an in situ process in said chamber. 16. The process of claim 12 wherein said USG film is deposited by stopping the introduction of said dopants near completion of formation of said doped silicon oxide film while maintaining introduction of said silicon and oxygen for between about 1-30 seconds. 17. The process of claim 12 wherein said removing step is done in situ in said chamber. 18. The process of claim 1 further comprising cleaning the substrate of native oxides in an in situ process in said chamber. 