In order to increase the number of datastreams provided by a multimedia system, a cluster of clusters of multimedia A/V server subsystems is provided. Each cluster in turn is comprised of a plurality of A/V servers, a shared loop architecture plurality of data storage devices interconnected to the A/V servers whereby any storage device is substantially equally accessible by any of the servers in the cluster; and a highly available control server subsystem interconnected to the A/V servers and the data storage devices for controlling the A/V servers and the data storage devices. Each of the clusters is interconnected to a high speed switch for delivery of datastreams from the cluster to the end user. One of the control server subsystems also serves as a master control server assigning a request for a datastream to one of the clusters.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for providing a large number of datastreams in a multimedia datastream server system comprising: generating a datastream request; assigning one of a plurality of clusters of A/V servers to service said request by a master controller in response to said request, each of said clusters being interconnected to a high speed data switch and including: a plurality of said A/V servers; a control server subsystem which includes said master controller; and a plurality of storage devices configured in a shared data loop and interconnected to said plurality of A/V servers and said control server subsystem; and servicing said request by said assigned one of said clusters. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said requested datastream is passed from one of said storage devices in said assigned cluster through a corresponding one of said A/V servers in said cluster to said switch. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said shared data loop is a serial storage architecture loop or a fiber channel arbitrated loop. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein for each said loop, each of said storage devices in said each loop has substantially equal access to any of said A/V servers interconnected to said loop. 5. An apparatus for providing a large number of datastreams in a multimedia datastream server system comprising: means for generating a datastream request; a plurality of high speed data switches; means for assigning one of a plurality of clusters of A/V servers to service said request by a master controller in response to said request, each of said clusters being interconnected to one of said high speed data switches; including: a plurality of said A/V servers; a control server subsystem which includes said master controller; and a plurality of storage devices configured in a shared data loop and interconnected to said plurality of A/V servers and said control server subsystem; and means for servicing said request by said assigned one of said clusters. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said requested datastream is passed from one of said storage devices in said assigned cluster through a corresponding one of said A/V servers in said cluster to said switch. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said shared data loop is a serial storage architecture loop or a fiber channel arbitrated loop. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein for each said loop, each of said storage devices in said each loop has substantially equal access to any of said A/V servers interconnected to said loop. 