A joint prosthesis for interconnecting the ends of adjoining bones includes a cushion of expanded PTFE having at least two facets for attachment to the bones. The cushion may or may not include stems for insertion into the bones. An optional sheath surrounds the non-facet surfaces of the cushion for preventing adherence of tissue. The motion of the prosthesis is defined or limited by the orientation of the facets and/or by the porosity of the cushion and/or by an insert within the cushion.
Claims What is claimed as the invention is: 1. A joint prosthesis for interconnecting the adjoining ends of metacarpophalangeal bones, said prosthesis comprising: a cushion of expanded, high-damping polytetrafluoroethylene having a first facet and a second facet, said cushion permitting damped motion between said first facet and said second facet; a first stem integral with and extending from said first facet for insertion into a hole in the end of a first metacarpophalangeal bone; a second stem integral with and extending from said second facet for insertion into a hole in the end of a second metacarpophalangeal bone; wherein said cushion serves to damp motion between said facets, thereby simulating a natural joint between said adjoining ends. 2. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first facet is parallel to said second facet. 3. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first facet is tilted with respect to said second facet. 4. A joint prosthesis for replacing a natural joint between a first bone and a second bone which can move relative to the first bone, said prosthesis imitating the motion of the natural joint by interconnecting the adjoining ends of said first bone and said second bone, said prosthesis comprising: a cushion of expanded, high-damping polytetrafluoroethylene having a first facet and a second facet, said cushion permitting damped motion between said first facet and said second facet; a first stem integral with and extending from said first facet for attachment to said first bone; and a second stem integral with and extending from said second facet for attachment to said second bone; wherein said cushion serves to damp motion between said facets, thereby simulating a natural joint between said adjoining ends. 5. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 4 wherein said first stem and said second stem each have a circular cross-section. 