A method and device are provided for controlling access to data. Portions of the data are protected and rules concerning access rights to the data are determined. Access to the protected portions of the data is prevented, other than in a non-useable form; and users are provided access to the data only in accordance with the rules as enforced by a mechanism protected by tamper detection. A method is also provided for distributing data for subsequent controlled use of those data. The method includes protecting portions of the data; preventing access to the protected portions of the data other than in a non-useable form; determining rules concerning access rights to the data; protecting the rules; and providing a package including: the protected portions of the data and the protected rules. A user is provided controlled access to the distributed data only in accordance with the rules as enforced by a mechanism protected by tamper protection. A device is provided for controlling access to data having protected data portions and rules concerning access rights to the data. The device includes means for storing the rules; and means for accessing the protected data portions only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to the protected data portions is permitted only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the portions of the data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of distributing data, the method comprising: protecting portions of the data; and openly distributing the protected portions of the data, whereby each and every access to the unprotected form of the protected data is limited only in accordance with rules defining access rights to the data as enforced by a mechanism protected by tamper detection, so that unauthorized access to the protected data is not to the unprotected form of the protected data. 2. A method of distributing data for subsequent controlled use of the data by a user, the method comprising: protecting portions of the data; protecting rules defining access rights to the data; and openly distributing the protected portion of the data and the protected rules, whereby controlled access to the unprotected form of the protected data is provided only in accordance with the rules as enforced by a mechanism protected by tamper detection, so that unauthorized access to the protected data is not to the unprotected form of the protected data. 3. A method of distributing data for subsequent controlled use of the data by a user, some of the data having access rules already associated therewith, the access rules defining access rights to the data, the method comprising: protecting portions of the data; providing rules defining access rights to the data; combining the provided rules with rules previously associated with the data; protecting the combined rules; and openly distributing the protected portions of the data and the protected combined rules, whereby controlled access to the unprotected form of the protected data is provided only in accordance with the combined rules as enforced by an access mechanism protected by tamper detection, so that unauthorized access to the protected data is not to the unprotected form of the protected data. 4. A method of controlling secondary distribution of data, the method comprising: protecting portions of the data; protecting rules defining access rights to the data; openly providing the protected portions of the data and the protected rules to a device having an access mechanism protected by tamper detection; and limiting transmission of the protected portions of the data from the device only as protected data or in accordance with the rules as enforced by the access mechanism, so that unauthorized access to the protected portions of the data is not to the unprotected form of the protected data. 5. A method of controlling access to data with a computer system having an input/output (i/o) system for transferring data to and from i/o devices, the method comprising: protecting portions of the data; openly providing the protected portions of the data; and limiting each and every access to the unprotected form of the protected data only in accordance with rules defining access rights to the data as enforced by the i/o system, so that unauthorized access to the protected portions of the data is not to the unprotected form of the protected data. 6. A method of accessing openly distributed data, the method comprising: obtaining openly distributed data having protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the protected data portions; and limiting each and every access to the unprotected form of the protected data only in accordance with the rules as enforced by a mechanism protected by tamper detection, so that unauthorized access to the protected portions of the data is not to the unprotected form of the protected data. 7. A method as in any one of claims 1, 3, 4 and 5 wherein the protecting of portions of the data comprises encrypting the portions of the data, whereby unauthorized access to the protected data is not to the un-encrypted form of the protected data. 8. A method as in claim 7, wherein the encrypting of portions of the data encrypts the portions of the data with a data encrypting key, the data encrypting key having a corresponding data decrypting key, the method further comprising: encrypting the data encrypting key. 9. A method as in claim 8, further comprising: providing a decrypting key corresponding to the key encrypting key. 10. A method as in any one of claims 2 and 3, wherein the protecting of the rules comprises encrypting the rules. 11. A method as in claim 10, wherein the protecting of portions of the data comprises encrypting the portions of the data, whereby unauthorized access to the protected data is not to the un-encrypted form of the protected data. 12. A method as in claim 11, wherein the rules are protected such that they can be viewed and they cannot be changed. 13. A method as in claim 11, wherein the encrypting of the rules comprises encrypting the rules with a rule encrypting key, the encrypting of the portions of the data comprises encrypting the portions of the data with a data encrypting key, the method further comprising encrypting the data encrypting key. 14. A method as in claim 13, wherein the mechanism comprises a unique identifier and wherein the rule encrypting key is determined as a function of the unique identifier. 15. A method as in claim 14, wherein the unique identifier is a cryptographically sealed certificate comprising a private key. 16. A method as in claim 15, wherein the certificate is destroyed upon detection of tampering. 17. A method as in claim 14, wherein the unique identifier is destroyed upon detection of tampering. 18. A method as in claim 13, wherein the mechanism includes a unique private key and wherein the rule encrypting key is associated with the private key. 19. A method as in any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, wherein the data represent at least one of software, text, numbers, graphics, audio, and video. 20. A method as in any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, wherein the rules indicate which users are allowed to access the protected portions of the data, the method further comprising allowing the user access to the unprotected form of a protected portion of the data only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access that portion of the data. 21. A method as in any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 wherein the rules indicate distribution rights of the data, the method further comprising: allowing distribution of the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the distribution rights indicated in the rules. 22. A method as in any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, wherein the rules indicate access control rights of the user, the method further comprising: allowing the user to access the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the access control rights indicated in the rules. 23. A method as in claim 22, wherein the access control rights include at least one of: local display rights, printing rights, copying rights, execution rights, transmission rights, and modification rights. 24. A method as in any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, wherein the rules indicate access control quantities, the method further comprising: allowing access to the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the access control quantities indicated in the rules. 25. A method as in claim 24, wherein the access control quantities include at least one of: a number of allowed read-accesses to the data; an allowable size of a read-access to the data; an expiration date of the data; an intensity of accesses to the data; an allowed level of accuracy and fidelity; and an allowed resolution of access to the data. 26. A method as in any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, wherein the rules indicate payment requirements, the method further comprising: allowing access to the unprotected form of the protected data portions only if the payment requirements indicated in the rules are satisfied. 27. A method as in any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6, further comprising: destroying data stored in the mechanism when tampering is detected. 28. A method as in claim 5, further comprising: destroying data stored in the i/o system when tampering is detected. 29. A method as in any one of claims 2, 3 and 4, further comprising providing the protected portions and the protected rules provides the protected portions and the protected rules together as a package. 30. A method as in claim 29, further comprising: providing unprotected portions of the data in the package. 31. A method as in any one of claims 2, 3 and 4, further comprising providing the protected portions and the protected rules separately. 32. A method as in any one of claims 2, 3 and 4, further comprising: providing unprotected portions of the data. 33. A method as in any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, wherein the rules relate to at least one of: characteristics of users; characteristics of protected data; and environmental characteristics. 34. A method as in claim 6, wherein the protected data portions are encrypted whereby unauthorized access to the unprotected form of the protected data is not to the un-encrypted form of the protected data. 35. A device for controlling access to data, the data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: storage means for storing the rules; and means for accessing the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to the unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the portions of the data. 36. A device as in claim 35, further comprising: means for storing data accessed by the means for accessing. 37. A device as in claim 35, wherein the protected data portions are encrypted using a data encrypting key and wherein the data encrypting key is encrypted with a key encrypting key, the device further comprising: means for obtaining a data decrypting key corresponding to the data encrypting key using a key decrypting key corresponding to the key encrypting key; means for storing the data decrypting key; and wherein the means for accessing comprises: means for decrypting the protected data portions using the data decrypting key. 38. A device as in claim 37, further comprising: tamper detecting mechanism for detecting tampering with the device. 39. A device as in claim 38, wherein the tamper detection means comprises: means for destroying data including keys and other cryptographic variables stored in the device when tampering is detected. 40. A device as in claim 35, further comprising: tamper detecting mechanism for detecting tampering with the device. 41. A device for displaying images represented by data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: a tamper detecting mechanism; means for storing the rules; means for accessing the data only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to the unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the portions of the data, the access being enforced by the tamper detecting mechanism; and means for displaying the images represented by the accessed data. 42. A device for outputting images represented by data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: a tamper detecting mechanism; means for storing the rules; means for accessing the data only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to the unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the portions of the data, the access being enforced by the tamper detecting mechanism; and means for outputting the images represented by the accessed data. 43. A device for outputting an audio signal represented by data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: a tamper detecting mechanism; means for storing the rules; means for accessing the data only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to the unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the portions of the data, the access being enforced by the tamper detecting mechanism; and means for outputting the audio signal represented by the accessed data. 44. A device for outputting an output signal based on data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: a tamper detecting mechanism; means for storing the rules; means for accessing the data only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to the unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the portions of the data, the access being enforced by the tamper detecting mechanism; and means for outputting the output signal represented by the accessed data. 45. A device for generating an output signal corresponding to data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the digital data, the device comprising: a tamper detecting mechanism; means for storing the rules; means for accessing the digital data only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to the unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the portions of the data, the access being enforced by the tamper detecting mechanism; and means for generating the output signal from the accessed data. 46. A device as in any one of claims 41 and 42, wherein the images comprise at least one of text data, numbers, graphics data, and video data. 47. A device as in any one of claims 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46 and 40, wherein the tamper detecting mechanism comprises: means for destroying data stored in the device when tampering is detected. 48. A device as in any one of claims 44 and 45, wherein the output signal comprises at least one of text, numbers, graphics, audio and video. 49. A device for distributing data for subsequent controlled use of the data by a user, the device comprising: means for protecting portions of the data; means for protecting rules defining access rights to the data; and means providing the protected portions of the data and the protected rules; whereby a user is provided controlled access to the data only in accordance with the rules as enforced by an access mechanism protected by tamper protection, so that unauthorized access to the protected data is not to the unprotected form of the protected data. 50. A device for distributing data for subsequent controlled use of the data by a user, some of the data having access rules already associated therewith, the access rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: means for protecting portions of the data; means for providing rules concerning access rights to the data; means for combining the provided rules with rules previously associated with the data; means for protecting the combined rules; and means for providing the protected portions of the data and the protected combined rules; whereby the user is provided controlled access to the unprotected form of the protected data only in accordance with the combined rules as enforced by an access mechanism protected by tamper detection, so that unauthorized access to the protected data is not to the unprotected form of the protected data. 51. A device as in any one of claims 49 and 50, wherein the means for providing the protected portions and the protected rules provides the protected portions and the protected rules together as a package. 52. A device as in claim 51, further comprising: means for providing unprotected portions of the data in the package. 53. A device as in any one of claims 49 and 50, wherein the means for providing the protected portions and the protected rules provides the protected portions and the protected rules separately. 54. A device as in any one of claims 49 and 50, wherein the means for protecting portions of the data comprises means for encrypting the portions of the data, whereby unauthorized access to the protected data is not to the unprotected form of the protected data. 55. A device as in any one of claims 49 and 50, wherein the means for protecting the rules comprises means for encrypting the rules. 56. A device as in claim 55, wherein the means for protecting portions of the data comprises means for encrypting the portions of the data, whereby unauthorized access to the protected data is not to the un-encrypted form of the protected data. 57. A device as in claim 56, wherein the means for encrypting the rules comprises means for encrypting the rules with a rule encrypting key, the means for encrypting the portions of the data comprises means for encrypting the portions of the data with a data encrypting key, the device further comprising means for encrypting the data encrypting key. 58. A device as in any one of claims 49 and 50, wherein the rules are protected such that they can be viewed and they cannot be changed. 59. A device as in any one of claims 49 and 50, further comprising means for providing unprotected portions of the data. 60. A device as in any one of claims 49 and 50, further comprising: means for detecting tampering with the access mechanism; and means for destroying data stored in the access mechanism when tampering is detected by the tamper detecting means. 61. A device as in any one of claims 35, 41-45, 49 and 50, wherein the rules relate to at least one of: characteristics of users; characteristics of protected data; and environmental characteristics. 62. A device as in any one of claims 35, 41-45, 49 and 50, wherein the data represent at least one of software, text, numbers, graphics, audio, and video. 63. A device as in any one of claims 35, 41-45, 49 and 50, wherein the rules indicate access control rights of the user, the device further comprising: means for allowing the user to access the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the access control rights indicated in the rules. 64. A device as in claim 63, wherein the access control rights include at least one of: local display rights, printing rights, copying rights, execution rights, transmission rights, and modification rights. 65. A device as in any one of claims 35, 41-45, 49 and 50, wherein the rules indicate access control quantities, the device further comprising: means allowing the user to access the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the access control quantities indicated in the rules. 66. A device as in claim 65, wherein the access control quantities include at least one of: a number of allowed read-accesses to the data; an allowable size of a read-access to the data; an expiration date of the data; an intensity of accesses to the data; an allowed level of accuracy and fidelity; and an allowed resolution of access to the data. 67. A process control system comprising a device for controlling access to data, the data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: a tamper detecting mechanism; means for storing the rules; and means for accessing the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the rules, whereby output of the unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted only in such manner as is permitted by the rules, the accessing being enforced by the tamper detecting mechanism. 68. A general purpose computer system comprising: a device for controlling access to data, the data comprising protected data portions and rules defining access rights to the data, the device comprising: a tamper detecting mechanism; storage means for storing the rules; and means for accessing the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the rules, whereby user access to the unprotected form of the protected data portions is permitted only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access the portions of the data, said access being enforced by said tamper detecting mechanism. 69. A computer system as in claim 68, wherein the tamper detecting mechanism comprises: means for destroying data, rules and cryptographic variables stored in the device when tampering is detected. 70. A computer system as in claim 68, wherein the protected data portions are encrypted using a data encrypting key and wherein the data encrypting key is encrypted with a key encrypting key, the computer further comprising: means for obtaining a data decrypting key corresponding to the data encrypting key using a key decrypting key corresponding to the key encrypting key; means for storing the data decrypting key; and wherein the means for accessing comprises: means for decrypting the protected data portions using the data decrypting key. 71. A computer system as in claim 70, wherein the device comprises a unique identifier and wherein the key encrypting key is determined as a function of the unique identifier. 72. A computer system as in claim 71, wherein the unique identifier is a cryptographically sealed certificate comprising a private key. 73. A computer system as in claim 72, wherein the certificate is destroyed upon detection of tampering. 74. A computer system as in claim 71, wherein the unique identifier is destroyed upon detection of tampering. 75. A computer system comprising: an input/output (i/o) system for transferring data to and from all i/o devices; means for protecting portions of the data; and means for limiting each and every access to the unprotected form of the protected data only in accordance with rules defining access rights to the data as enforced by the i/o system, so that unauthorized access to the protected data is only to the protected form of the protected data. 76. A system as in claim 75, further comprising means for destroying data, including cryptographic variables, stored in the i/o system when tampering is detected. 77. A system as in any one of claims 69 and 75, wherein the data represent at least one of software, text, numbers, graphics, audio, and video. 78. A system as in claim 75, wherein the means for protecting portions of the data comprises means for encrypting the portions of the data, whereby unauthorized access to the protected data is not to the un-encrypted form of the protected data. 79. A system as in claim 78, wherein the means for encrypting encrypts the portions of the data with a data encrypting key, the data encrypting key having a corresponding data decrypting key, the system further comprising: means for encrypting the data encrypting key with a key encrypting key. 80. A system as in claim 79, further comprising: means for providing a decrypting key corresponding to the key encrypting key. 81. A computer system as in claim 75, wherein the rules indicate which users are allowed to access the protected portions of the data, the system further comprising: means for allowing the user access to the unprotected form of a protected portion of the data only if the rules indicate that the user is allowed to access that portion of the data. 82. A computer system as in claim 75, wherein the rules indicate distribution rights of the data, the system further comprising: means for allowing the user to distribute the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the distribution rights indicated in the rules. 83. A system as in claim 75, wherein the rules indicate access control rights of the user, the system further comprising: means for allowing the user to access the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the access control rights indicated in the rules. 84. A system as in claim 83, wherein the access control rights include at least one of: local display rights, printing rights, copying rights, execution rights, transmission rights, and modification rights. 85. A system as in claim 75, wherein the rules indicate access control quantities, the system further comprising: means allowing the user to access the unprotected form of the protected data portions only in accordance with the access control quantities indicated in the rules. 86. A system as in claim 85, wherein the access control quantities include at least one of: a number of allowed read-accesses to the data; an allowable size of a read-access to the data; an expiration date of the data; an intensity of accesses to the data; an allowed level of accuracy and fidelity; and an allowed resolution of access to the data. 87. A system as in claim 85, wherein the rules indicate payment requirements, the system further comprising: means for allowing the user to access the unprotected form of the protected data portions only if the payment requirements indicated in the rules are satisfied. 88. A system as in any one of claims 67, 68, 70 and 75, wherein the rules relate to at least one of: characteristics of users; characteristics of protected data; and environmental characteristics. 