The invention relates to a method for purification of viral RNA from a biological sample. The method involves lysing the virus envelope to liberate the RNA and passing the lysate through a porous hydrophilic PVDF filter to capture the viral RNA. The filter with bound RNA is then washed to remove proteins, lipids and other contaminants. The RNA is released from the filter using a low ionic strength ribonuclease (RNase) free solution to form a solution containing purified viral RNA. From this solution the RNA is recovered. The invention is also compatible with purification of nucleic acids from other types of samples.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for purifying viral RNA, comprising: (a) applying a biological sample containing viral RNA to a hydrophilic polyvinylidine fluoride (PVDF) membrane which contains pores having an average diameter less than about 0.45 .mu.m; (b) passing the biological sample through the PVDF membrane; (c) washing the membrane to remove impurities while selectively retaining the viral RNA; (d) suspending the viral RNA using an eluant to provide purified viral RNA; and (e) recovering the purified viral RNA. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the membrane contains pores having an average diameter of from about 0.1 .mu.m to about 0.3 .mu.m. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the membrane contains pores having an average diameter of from about 0.15 .mu.m to about 0.25 .mu.m. 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein the membrane contains pores having an average diameter of about 0.22 .mu.m. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophilic PVDF membrane is low protein-binding. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the passing step comprises applying a pressure differential across the membrane. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein the passing step comprises applying negative pressure below the membrane. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the passing step comprises applying positive pressure above the membrane. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein the passing step comprises applying centrifugal force. 10. A method according to claim 1, further comprising lysing the biological sample before the applying step. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein the viral RNA has a length less than about 40,000 nucleotides. 12. A method according to claim 1, wherein the viral RNA has a length less than about 30,000 nucleotides. 13. A method according to claim 1, wherein the viral RNA is from a virus selected from the group consisting of hepatitis C virus, hepatitis A virus, hepatitis G virus, human immunodeficiency virus, human T-cell leukemia virus I, human T-cell leukemia virus II, and human lymphotropic virus. 14. A method according to claim 1, further comprising removing cellular components of the biological sample prior to applying the sample to the membrane. 15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the biological sample is a blood sample, and the removing step comprises removing blood cells from the sample. 16. A method according to claim 14, wherein the biological sample is a cell culture, and the removing step comprises removing the cultured cells from the culture medium. 17. A method according to claim 1, wherein the biological sample is substantially free of cellular components. 18. A method according to claim 17, wherein the biological sample is serum or plasma. 19. A method according to claim 1, wherein the biological sample contains whole virus. 20. A method according to claim 19, wherein the whole virus is selected from the group consisting of hepatitis C virus, hepatitis A virus, hepatitis G virus, human immunodeficiency virus, human T-cell leukemia virus I, human T-cell leukemia virus II, and human lymphotropic virus. 21. A method according to claim 1, wherein the viral RNA is single stranded. 22. A method according to claim 1, further comprising amplifying the purified viral RNA to provide amplified viral RNA. 23. A method according to claim 22, further comprising quantitating the amplified viral RNA. 24. A method according to claim 23, wherein the quantitating comprises amplifying the viral RNA using RT-PCR. 25. A method according to claim 1, further comprising identifying the viral nucleic acid by hybridizing with an oligonucleotide probe that uniquely hybridizes with nucleic acid of a selected virus. 26. A method for purifying nucleic acid comprising: (a) applying a biological sample containing nucleic acid to a hydrophilic polyvinylidine fluoride (PVDF) membrane which contains pores having an average diameter less than about 0.45 .mu.m; (b) passing the biological sample through the PVDF membrane; (c) washing the membrane to remove impurities while selectively retaining the nucleic acid; (d) suspending the nucleic acid using an eluant to provide a purified sample; and (e) recovering the purified nucleic acid. 27. A method according to claim 26, wherein the membrane contains pores having an average diameter of from about 0.1 .mu.m to about 0.3 .mu.m. 28. A method according to claim 27, wherein the membrane contains pores having an average diameter of from about 0.15 .mu.m to about 0.25 .mu.m. 29. A method according to claim 28, wherein the membrane contains pores having an average diameter of about 0.22 .mu.m. 30. A method according to claim 26, wherein the nucleic acid has a length less than about 40,000 nucleotides. 31. A method according to claim 30, wherein the nucleic acid has a length less than about 30,000 nucleotides. 32. A method according to claim 26, wherein the nucleic acid is RNA. 33. A method according to claim 32, wherein the RNA is viral RNA. 34. A method for purifying RNA relative to DNA in a sample comprising: (a) applying a sample containing RNA and DNA to a hydrophilic PVDF membrane which contains pore sizes having an average diameter of less than about 0.45 .mu.m; (b) passing the sample through the membrane to selectively retain the RNA; (c) washing the membrane; and (d) eluting to recover an eluate sample that has a substantially increased proportion of RNA to DNA. 35. A method according to claim 34, further comprising repeating steps (a) through (d) using the eluate sample to further purify RNA relative to DNA. 36. A method according to claim 34, wherein the hydrophilic PVDF membrane contains pores having an average diameter of from about 0.1 .mu.m to about 0.3 .mu.m. 37. A method according to claim 36, wherein the membrane contains pores having an average diameter of from about 0.15 .mu.m to about 0.25 .mu.m. 38. A method according to claim 37, wherein the membrane contains pores having an average diameter of about 0.22 .mu.m. 