Typically, paint film thickness is measured at a plurality of locations on a vehicle body by a hand-held sensor which is positioned by an operator at a position normal to the respective locations being sensed. This operation may be inaccurate and time-consuming because substantial reliance is placed upon the operator. The invention provides an apparatus for positioning a plurality of sensors in contact with a plurality of locations, respectively, on a non-planar surface such that each sensor is positioned normal to the non-planar surface at the respective location on the surface. The apparatus includes a movable fixture and a plurality of pistons carried by the movable fixture. Each of the pistons is movable independently with respect to the fixture. Each piston includes a distal end, and a sensor is pivotally mounted to each distal end. Each distal end is spring-biased away from the fixture, and each sensor includes at least two contact points for contacting the non-planar surface on opposing sides of the respective location for orienting the sensor in a position normal to the non-planar surface at the respective location.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for positioning a plurality of sensors in contact with a plurality of locations, respectively, on a non-planar surface such that each sensor is positioned normal to the non-planar surface at the respective location on the surface, the apparatus comprising: a movable fixture; a plurality of pistons carried by said movable fixture, each of said plurality of pistons being independently movable with respect to the fixture, and each having a distal end; and a plurality of sensors pivotally connected, respectively, to the distal end of each said piston, wherein each of said distal ends is spring-biased away from the fixture, and wherein each said sensor includes at least two contact points for contacting the non-planar surface on opposing sides of the respective location for orienting the sensor in a position normal to the non-planar surface at the respective location; wherein each said sensor comprises a cylindrical sensor head having a central opening therein for receiving a sensing member; and wherein each said sensor head is pivotally connected to the respective distal end by a ball and socket. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each said contact point is padded to prevent damage to the non-planar surface. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each said sensing member comprises a paint film thickness sensor. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each said cylindrical sensor head comprises a circular rim for contacting the non-planar surface, said circular rim being padded. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each said piston is linearly movable through a respective cylindrical aperture formed in the fixture. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said fixture is movably mounted on a pivotable support arm. 7. A method of positioning a plurality of sensors in contact with a plurality of locations, respectively, on a non-planar surface such that each sensor is positioned normal to the non-planar surface at the respective location on the surface for measuring paint thickness on the surface, the method comprising: providing a movable fixture having a plurality of independently movable pistons thereon, each piston having a distal end with a sensor pivotally mounted thereto, wherein each distal end is spring-biased away from the fixture and each said sensor includes at least two cushioned contact points for contacting the non-planar surface on opposing sides of the respective location in a manner to prevent damage to the painted surface and for orienting the sensor in a position normal to the respective location; moving the movable fixture toward the non-planar surface to engage one of said contact points of the respective sensor with the non-planar surface; continuing said moving to pivot the respective sensor to said position normal to the respective location; and operating each said sensor to measure paint thickness at the plurality of locations. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising moving the respective piston toward the fixture against the spring-bias to compensate for contour of said non-planar surface. 