A test system (100) for testing electronic devices includes a conveyor (130) to convey the electronic devices, a test fixture (112) to test the electronic devices, and a robot apparatus (102). The robot apparatus (102) has a robot arm (118) positionable within an accessible region (216) to deliver electronic devices from the conveyor (130) to the test fixture (112) via an arcuate path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A test system for testing electronic devices, the test system comprising: a frame comprising a base, a canopy, and a test area positioned therebetween; a plurality of test equipment housed in the base and the canopy; a conveyor system housed in the test area to convey the electronic devices; a vision guidance system housed in the test area to locate one of the electronic devices; a plurality of test fixtures housed in the test area, each of the plurality of test fixtures coupled to a corresponding one of the plurality of test equipment; and a robot apparatus comprising a robot arm and a robot controller, the robot arm mounted in the test area and having a plurality of rotational joints, the robot controller coupled to the plurality of test equipment, the conveyor system, and the vision guidance system, the robot controller, responsive to the vision guidance system, to control the robot arm to deliver the one of the electronic devices from the conveyor system to one of the plurality of test fixtures. 2. A test system according to claim 1 further comprising a barcode scanning station housed in the test area. 3. A test system according to claim 1 wherein the vision guidance system comprises a first camera and a second camera, the first camera positioned a first distance above the conveyor system to look downward on the conveyor system, the second camera positioned to be accessible by the robot arm at a second distance, the second distance smaller than the first distance. 4. A test system according to claim 1 further comprising a plurality of test fixture drawers, each one of the plurality of test fixture drawers having a corresponding one of the plurality of test fixtures mounted therein, each one of the plurality of test fixture drawers comprising a slideable track assembly mounted in the test area, the slideable track assembly to permit movement of the corresponding one of the plurality of test fixture drawers between an in position and an out position, the out position outside of the test area. 5. A test system according to claim 1 further comprising an end tool carried on the robot arm, the end tool operable to pick the one of the electronic devices from the conveyor system. 6. A test system according to claim 5 further comprising a tool changer coupled to the robot arm and the end tool, the tool changer to removably attach the end tool to the robot arm. 7. A test system according to claim 6 further comprising an end tool nest positioned in the test area, the end tool nest having at least one receptacle adapted to receive the end tool. 8. A test system according to claim 1 wherein the conveyor system comprises a first conveyor operable to deliver the electronic devices into the test area, and the vision system comprises a first camera coupled to the robot apparatus and positioned above the first conveyor to capture an image of the electronic devices at a predetermined location on the first conveyor. 9. A test system according to claim 8 further comprising a second camera coupled to the robot apparatus and positioned in the test area, the second camera to capture an image of the electronic devices after removal of the electronic devices from the first conveyor by the robot arm. 10. A test system for testing electronic devices, the test system comprising: at least one conveyor to convey at least one of the electronic devices; at least one test fixture to test the at least one of the electronic devices; a robot apparatus having a robot arm, the robot arm positionable within an accessible region to deliver the at least one of the electronic devices from the at least one conveyor to the at least one test fixture through an arcuate path; and an end tool carried on the robot arm, the end tool operable to pick the at least one of the electronic devices from the at least one conveyor. 11. A test system according to claim 10 further comprising a tool changer coupled to the robot arm and the end tool, the tool changer to removably attach the end tool to the robot arm. 12. A test system according to claim 10 further comprising an end tool nest positioned in the accessible region, the end tool nest having at least one receptacle adapted to receive the end tool. 13. A test system according to claim 10 further comprising a vision guidance system, the vision guidance system comprising first and second cameras coupled to the robot apparatus, the first camera positioned to look downward on the at least one conveyor, the second camera positioned in the accessible area; and wherein the robot apparatus further comprises a robot controller, the robot controller performing the following steps: controlling the first camera to capture a first image of the at least one of the electronic devices, processing the first image to determine location and orientation of the at least one of the electronic devices, controlling, responsive to determining the location and orientation of the at least one of the electronic devices, the robot arm and the end tool to pick the at least one of the electronic devices from the at least one conveyor, controlling the robot arm to transport the at least one of the electronic devices in proximity to the second camera, controlling the second camera to capture a second image of the at least one of the electronic devices, and processing the second image to locate a predefined feature on the at least one of the electronic devices and to determine a final location and orientation of the at least one of the electronic devices in the end tool. 14. A test system according to claim 10 further comprising a vision guidance system, the vision guidance system comprising a first camera coupled to the robot apparatus, the first camera positioned to look downward on the at least one conveyor; and wherein the robot apparatus further comprises a robot controller, the robot controller performing the following steps: controlling the first camera to capture a first image of the at least one of the electronic devices, processing the first image to determine location and orientation of the at least one of the electronic devices, controlling, responsive to determining the location and orientation of the at least one of the electronic devices, the robot arm and the end tool to pick the at least one of the electronic devices from the at least one conveyor while the at least one conveyor is moving, controlling the robot arm to place the at least one of the electronic devices on a horizontally level stationary surface, and controlling the robot arm and end tool to repick the at least one of the electronic devices from the horizontally level stationary surface, thereby ensuring that the at least one of the electronic devices is horizontally level in the end tool. 15. A test system for testing electronic devices, the test system comprising: at least one conveyor to convey at least one of the electronic devices; at least one test fixture to test the at least one of the electronic devices; and a robot apparatus having a robot arm, the robot arm positionable within an accessible region to deliver the at least one of the electronic devices from the at least one conveyor to the at least one test fixture through an arcuate path, and wherein the at least one test fixture is slideably mounted to permit movement between an in position and an out position, the out position outside of the accessible region. 16. A test system according to claim 15 further comprising: a frame comprising a base, a canopy and a test area positioned therebetween; and at least one piece of test equipment housed in one of the base and the canopy; and wherein the at least one conveyor is housed in the test area, the robot arm is mounted in the test area, and the at least one test fixture is housed in the test area, the at least one test fixture coupled to the at least one piece of test equipment. 17. A test system according to claim 16 wherein the at least one test fixture is a plurality of test fixtures; and further comprising a plurality of test fixture drawers, each one of the plurality of test fixture drawers having a corresponding one of the plurality of test fixtures mounted therein, each one of the plurality of test fixture drawers comprising a slideable track assembly mounted in the test area, the slideable track assembly to permit movement of the corresponding one of the plurality of test fixture drawers between an the in position and the out position, the out position outside of the test area. 18. A test system according to claim 15 wherein the conveyor system comprises: a first conveyor operable to deliver the electronic devices into the test area; a second conveyor operable to deliver tested ones of the electronic devices away from the test area; and a third conveyor operable to deliver failed ones of the electronic devices away from the test area. 19. A test system according to claim 18 wherein the conveyor system comprises: a slide mounted to the first conveyor to extend at a downward angle therefrom; and a redirect coupled to the robot apparatus and mounted to the first conveyor at a location opposite the slide, the redirect movable between an open position and a closed position, the redirect, in the closed position, to divert the electronic devices from the first conveyor to the slide. 