An assembly for carrying out operations in the transfer, manufacture, or assembly of components having an open center turntable, rotatable about a vertical axis, having a number of work positions adapted for alignment with component supply, assembly, and removal. The platform is movably borne on an open center fixed base support, by means of bearings journalled between the support and the turntable proximate the work force exerted on the component at the turntable work station. The platform is rotated about the open center fixed support by means of a substantially circular drive hub attached to the platform. A drive belt, coupled to the drive pulley of a motor, located beneath the platform peripherally engages the drive hub about a circular belt raceway attached to the hub. As the drive pulley rotates, the turntable rotates through a defined set of motions by means of the drive belt arrangement. Complex motion profiles such as indexing, continuous and variable speed rotation, reversing, and oscillating can be accomplished, at varying table angles with diminished drive power requirements, due to reduced table inertia. The underneath driven, open center turntable provides increased work space, tool placement and the ability to place one table interior another.
Claims In the claims: 1. An assembly for positioning an object, said assembly comprising: an open center stationary base, said base having an inner peripheral base edge that defines an open center of said base; an open center platform having an outer peripheral edge and an inner peripheral edge, said inner peripheral edge defining an open center of said platform and said platform adapted to support the object; means for movably supporting said platform on said base for rotational movement of said platform relative to said base, wherein said means for movably supporting said platform on said base are disposed between said outer peripheral edge of said platform and said inner peripheral edge of said platform and do not extend into said open center of said platform; and drive means disposed substantially beneath said platform between said outer peripheral edge of said platform and said inner peripheral edge of said platform and do not extend into said open center of said platform, said drive means supported by said base and operably connected to said platform for rotationally moving said platform about said base, wherein said drive means includes a drive pulley having a rotational axis parallel to a rotational axis of said platform. 2. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said platform and said base are substantially ring-shaped and wherein the outer diameter of said platform is greater than the outer diameter of said base. 3. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said platform is adapted for oscillating, indexing, reversing, or continuous rotary movement. 4. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said means for movably supporting said platform comprises at least one set of bearing means journalled between said platform and said base. 5. An assembly for positioning an object, said assembly comprising: an open center stationary base, said base having an inner peripheral base edge that defines an open center of said base, wherein said said base includes indented support surfaces forming a profile; an open center platform having an outer peripheral edge and an inner peripheral edge, said inner peripheral edge defining an open center of said platform and said platform adapted to support the object; means for movably supporting said platform on said base for rotational movement of said platform relative to said base, wherein said means for movably supporting said platform on said base are disposed between said outer peripheral edges of said platform and said inner peripheral edge of said platform, and wherein said means for movably supporting said platform on said base comprises rollers rollingly mounted to said platform, each said roller supported within said support surfaces of said base and having a profile for mating engagement therewith; and drive means disposed substantially beneath said platform, said drive means supported by said base and operably connected to said platform for rotationally moving said platform about said base. 6. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said platform further comprises a drive hub disposed inwardly of said outer peripheral edge of said platform, said hub adapted to operatively engage said drive means for rotational movement of said platform about said base. 7. The assembly of claim 6 wherein said drive hub comprises an extension wall at a selected angle from said platform and said drive means operably engages said wall. 8. The assembly of claim 6 further including a second said open center platform rotatably supported on a second said open center base, wherein said second said open center platform is concentric with said platform and includes an outer diameter substantially equal to an inner diameter of said platform. 9. The assembly of claim 6 wherein said drive means further includes: a drive belt operatively connected to said drive pulley and to the drive hub of said platform; and motorized means for rotating said drive pulley. 10. A method of placing an object in position for performing an operation thereon, said method comprising the steps of: providing an open center stationary base, said base having an inner peripheral base edge that defines an open center of said base; providing an open center platform movably supported on said base proximate said object, said platform having an outer peripheral edge and an inner peripheral edge, said inner peripheral edge defining an open center of said platform; supporting said object on said platform; providing a means for movably supporting said platform on said base for rotational movement of said platform relative to said base, wherein said means for movably supporting said platform on said base are disposed between said outer peripheral edge of said platform and said inner peripheral edge of said platform and do not extend into said open center of said platform; providing drive means disposed substantially beneath said platform between said outer peripheral edge of said platform and said inner peripheral edge of said platform and do not extend into said open center of said platform, said drive means supported by said base and operably connected to said platform for rotationally moving said platform about said base, wherein said drive means includes a drive pulley having a rotational axis parallel to a rotational axis of said platform; and driving said platform for rotation relative to said base by said drive means from a position substantially beneath said platform thereby positioning said object at one or more selected angular positions. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said step of driving said platform is performed by operably connecting a drive motor having a rotational axis, disposed substantially beneath said platform, with said rotational axis of said drive motor located substantially adjacent to the periphery of said platform. 12. The method of claim 10 further including the steps of; providing at least one processing means; placing said processing means inside of said open center of said platform. 13. The method of claim 10 further including the step of providing a second said open platform rotatably supported on a second said open center base, wherein said second said open center platform is concentric with said platform. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein said processing means includes a robotic device. 15. The method of claim 10 wherein said platform is rotated in a continuous motion. 16. The method of claim 10 wherein said platform is rotated in an intermittent motion. 