Devices and methods are provided for precise production of arrays of microspots. A pulse jetting device is employed having a capillary of micron dimensions, with a portion of the capillary proximal to the jetting orifice circumferentially surrounded by a piezoelectric transducer. By appropriate design of the capillary, orifice and piezoelectric transducer, droplets can be formed on a surface, separated by as little as 80 microns center-to-center, and having at least about a 15 micron spacing at the border. The subject substrate arrays can be used for providing miniaturized arrays of reagents, such as nucleic acids, for detecting the presence of homologous sequences in a sample.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pulse jetting device providing droplets capable of providing arrays of spots of less than 500 microliters from center to center with substantially no contamination of one spot with another, said device comprising: a housing comprising a first constricted opening at one end and a second opening at the other end; a capillary comprising a dispensing orifice having a diameter in the range of about 10 to 100 microns and a volume capacity in the range of about 1 to 10 microliters and extending a portion of the length of said housing with said dispensing orifice extending through said first opening; proximal to said dispensing orifice, a piezoelectric transducer mounted concentrically on said capillary and affixed to said capillary, wherein the walls of said capillary move with the movement of said transducer; proximal to said second end and extending at least about 40% of the length of said capillary a capillary casing affixed to said capillary, with said casing filling the space between said capillary and the inner wall of said housing; in liquid transfer relationship with said second end and extending into said housing, a receptacle for a sample, wherein the compositions of said receptacle and capillary are selected so that upon contact of said sample with said capillary, said sample fills said capillary by capillary action; a lid having a plurality of conduits, each conduit being valved; means for hermetically sealing said lid to said receptacle; and means for connecting said piezoelectric transducer to a control system. 2. A pulse jetting device according to claim 1, wherein said capillary has walls of from 0.10 to 0.40 mm in thickness. 3. A pulse jetting device according to claim 1, wherein said sample receptacle has volume ranging from about 5 to 50 .mu.l. 4. A pulse jetting device according to claim 1, wherein said capillary is hydrophilic and said receptacle is hydrophobic. 5. A pulse jetting device according to claim 4, wherein said capillary is glass and said receptacle is nylon. 6. A spot array forming system comprising: a plurality of pulse jetting devices according to claim 1; means for moving at least one pulse jetting device from a reserve position to an active position for dispensing droplets; a substrate holding device for holding a substrate in position to receive said droplets; means for accurately moving said at least one pulse jetting device and said substrate holding device in relation to each other for precisely positioning spots on said substrate in a spot array. 7. A spot array forming system according to claim 6, wherein said system forms adjacent spots that are less than 500 microns from center to center and at least 15 microns from border to border. 8. A spot array forming system according to claim 6, wherein said means for accurately moving comprises an x-y raster servomechanism. 9. A spot array forming system according to claim 6, wherein said means for accurately moving is a linear servomechanism and said substrate holding device comprises a rotating platform for supporting said substrate. 10. A spot array forming system according to claim 6, wherein said system forms adjacent spots with a center-to-center separation of not more than 100 microns. 11. A spot array forming system according to claim 6, wherein a plurality of jetting devices are held together to move as a group. 12. A pulse jetting device providing droplets capable of providing arrays of spots of less than 500 microns from center to center with substantially no contamination of one spot with another, said device comprising: a housing comprising a first constricted opening at the lower end and a second opening at the top end; a glass capillary comprising a dispensing orifice having a diameter in the range of about 10 to 100 microns and a volume capacity in the range of about 1 to 10 microliters and extending a portion of the length of said housing with said dispensing orifice extending through said first opening; proximal to said dispensing orifice, a piezoelectric transducer mounted concentrically on said capillary and affixed to said capillary, wherein the walls of said capillary move with the movement of said transducer; proximal to said second end and extending at least about 40% of the length of said capillary a capillary casing affixed to said capillary and threaded into said housing, with said casing filling the space between said capillary and the inner wall of said housing, the top of said casing being flush with said housing and being below the top of said housing; in liquid transfer relationship with said second end and extending into said housing, a sample receptacle threaded into said housing and locking said casing in said housing, wherein the composition of said receptacle is hydrophobic, so that upon contact of a polar sample with said capillary, said polar sample fills said capillary by capillary action; a lid having a plurality of conduits, each conduit being valved; means for hermetically sealing said lid to said receptacle; and means for connecting said piezoelectric transducer to a control system. 13. A pulse jetting device according to claim 12, wherein said dispensing orifice has a diameter in the range of 10 to 80.mu.. 14. A pulse jetting device according to claim 12, wherein said capillary has walls of from 0.10 to 0.40 mm in thickness. 15. A pulse jetting device according to claim 12, wherein said sample receptacle has volume ranging from about 5 to 50 .mu.l. 16. A pulse jetting device according to claim 12, wherein the length of said capillary is in the range of 1.5 to 4 cm. 17. A spot array forming system comprising: a plurality of pulse jetting devices according to claim 12; means for moving at least one pulse jetting device from a reserve position to an active position for dispensing droplets; a substrate holding device for holding a substrate in position to receive said droplets; and means for accurately moving said at least one pulse jetting device and said substrate holding device in relation to each other for precisely positioning spots on said substrate in a spot array. 