A robotic golf swing trainer according to embodiments of this invention moves a golf club a golfer is holding in the same way as a modeled, well-executed swing such as that of a selected professional golfer. This robotically controlled movement is performed at a multitude of speeds up to and including real time identical speed as the modeled swing, if desired. Additionally, the controlled movement of the club is accomplished so as to not interfere with or touch the golfer in any way during the swing.
Claims I claim: 1. A golf swing trainer for a golfer, the trainer comprising: a generally arcuate track adapted to have a golfer positioned relative to the track and address a golf ball while gripping a golf club; a support system supporting the track above the ground; a carriage mounted on the track for movement thereon; a robotic arm coupled to the carriage; an end effector on a distal end of the arm adapted to grip the golf club; a plurality of servo motors each operatively coupled to selected ones of the track, carriage, arm or end effector; and a controller electrically coupled to the servo motors to provide instructions for movement of the carriage, arm and end effector to move the golf club and guide the golfer through a specified golf swing. 2. The trainer of claim 1 wherein a first one of the servo motors is on the end effector and operative to rotate the golf club about a longitudinal axis of a shaft of the golf club. 3. The trainer of claim 2 wherein a second and a third servo motor are each mounted proximate a distal end of the arm and operative to move the golf club in respective planes perpendicular to one another; a fourth and a fifth servo motor are each mounted proximate a proximal end of the arm and operative to move the golf club in respective planes perpendicular to one another; and a sixth servo motor is mounted proximate the track and operative to move the carriage relative to the track. 4. The trainer of claim 1 wherein a first and a second servo motor are each mounted proximate a distal end of the arm and operative to move the golf club in respective planes perpendicular to one another. 5. The trainer of claim 1 wherein a first and a second servo motor are each mounted proximate a proximal end of the arm and operative to move the golf club in respective planes perpendicular to one another. 6. The trainer of claim 1 wherein a first one of the servo motors is mounted proximate the track and operative to move the carriage relative to the track. 7. The trainer of claim 6 further comprising: a belt coupled to the carriage and driven by the first one of the servo motors. 8. The trainer of claim 1 wherein the track is a closed, generally circular member adapted to receive the golfer standing therein when swinging the golf club. 9. The trainer of claim 1 wherein the support system is adjustable to selectively change a position of the track relative to the ground. 10. The trainer of claim 1 wherein the support system further comprises: a plurality of adjustable legs each projecting from the track at proximal end of the leg and engaging the ground at a distal end of the leg. 11. The trainer of claim 1 wherein the controller is programmable to move the golf club at a desired rate, up to and including a full-speed golf swing. 12. A golf swing trainer for a golfer, the trainer comprising: a generally arcuate track adapted to have a golfer positioned relative to the track and address a golf ball while gripping a golf club, wherein the track is a closed, generally circular member adapted to receive the golfer standing therein when swinging the golf club; a support system supporting the track above the ground, wherein the support system is adjustable to selectively change a position of the track relative to the ground; a carriage mounted on the track for movement thereon; a robotic arm coupled to the carriage; an end effector on a distal end of the arm adapted to grip the golf club; a plurality of servo motors each operatively coupled to selected ones of the track, carriage, arm or end effector; a first one of the servo motors is on the end effector and operative to rotate the golf club about a longitudinal axis of a shaft of the golf club; a second and a third servo motor are each mounted proximate a distal end of the arm and operative to move the golf club in respective planes perpendicular to one another; a fourth and a fifth servo motor are each mounted proximate a proximal end of the arm and operative to move the golf club in respective planes perpendicular to one another; a sixth servo motor is mounted proximate the track and operative to move the carriage relative to the track; a belt coupled to the carriage and driven by the sixth servo motor; a controller electrically coupled to the servo motors to provide instructions for movement of the carriage, arm and end effector to move the golf club and guide the golfer through a specified golf swing. 13. A putting trainer for a golfer, the trainer comprising: a generally arcuate track adapted to have a golfer positioned relative to the track and address a golf ball while gripping a putter; a support system supporting the track above the ground; a carriage mounted on the track for movement thereon with the carriage gripping the putter; at least one servo motor operatively coupled to the carriage; and a controller electrically coupled to the servo motor to provide instructions for movement of the carriage to move the putter and guide the golfer through a specified putting stroke. 14. The putting trainer of claim 13 further comprising: a belt coupled to the carriage and driven by the servo motor. 15. The putting trainer of claim 14 further comprising: a tensioning mechanism coupled to the belt to maintain tension in the belt. 16. The putting trainer of claim 13 wherein the support system is adjustable. 