A control system and method generate joint variables for motion or posing of a target system in response to observations of a source system. Constraints and balance control may be provided for more accurate representation of the motion or posing as replicated by the target system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, implemented by a computer, for controlling the movement of members of a physical articulated system, the method comprising: capturing data which describes tracked motion of a source system which is separate from the physical articulated system; enforcing constraints on movement of the members of the physical articulated system; and generating commands for moving the members of the physical articulated system to track the tracked motion of the source system described in the captured data by applying the constraints on movement of the members of the physical articulated system to the captured data describing the tracked motion of the source system; and storing the commands in a computer-readable storage medium. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the constraints describe physical limitations of the members of the physical articulated system, and wherein at least one of the physical limitations of the members of the physical articulated system is different from physical limitations of the source system, the method further comprising: generating a balance control command in response to the commands. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the capturing includes first order closed loop inverse kinematics. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the capturing further comprises regularizing an inverse Jacobian matrix used to describe the differential kinematics of variables in the physical articulated system. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the capturing includes second order closed loop inverse kinematics. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the capturing further comprises regularizing an inverse Jacobian matrix used to describe the differential kinematics of variables in the physical articulated system. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the generating commands includes: generating an error between a function of the command and the source motion of the source system; generating a control command according to a control law in response to the command and constraints; generating a prediction of motion in response to the control command; and generating the command in response to the prediction. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising: calculating forward kinematics of the command to generate said function of the command. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the constraints include singularities arising from limitations of performing tasks due to insufficient degrees of freedom of the physical articulated system for executing the tasks. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the constraints include singularities arising from mathematics of the generating a control command. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the physical articulated system is a human model. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the physical articulated system is a robot. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein enforcing constraints includes: modulating time between sample times of generating commands responsive to the movement of a member of the physical articulated system having a velocity above a threshold. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the source motion comprises human features obtained from images or data. 15. A system for controlling the movement of members of a physical articulated system, the system comprising: a tracking system for capturing data which describes tracked motion of a source system which is separate from the physical articulated system; a constraint system coupled to the tracking system and to the physical articulated system, the constraint system for enforcing constraints on movement of the members of the physical articulated system; and a control system coupled to the tracking system, the constraint system and the physical articulated system, the control system for generating commands for moving the members of the physical articulated system to track the tracked motion of the source system described in the captured data by applying the constraints on movement of the members of the physical articulated system to the captured data describing the tracked motion of the source system. 16. A method, implemented by a computer, of tracking motion of a human by a physical articulated system which is separate from the human, the method comprising: assigning task variables to portions of the human; detecting motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables; generating a command for the physical articulated system to track the detected motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables; adjusting the command for the physical articulated system to track the detected motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables by applying constraints describing physical limitations of the physical articulated system for performing motions to the command for the physical articulated system to track the detected motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables; and storing the adjusted command in a computer-readable storage medium. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the task variables have a different dimension than the degrees of freedom of movement of the human. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the physical limitations include joint limits, torque limits, velocity limits, and collision avoidance. 19. The method of claim 16 further comprising adjusting the command for tracking the detected motion based on balancing the physical articulated system during the motion. 20. The method of claim 16 wherein the physical limitations include singularities arising from limitations due to insufficient degrees of freedom of the physical articulated system for tracking the detected motion. 21. The method of claim 16 further comprising: adjusting the commands in response to position error and orientation error of the assigned task descriptors and the commands. 22. The method of claim 16 wherein the physical articulated system is a human model. 23. The method of claim 16 wherein the physical articulated system is a robot. 24. The method of claim 16 further comprising: determining collision points of the physical articulated system; and adjusting the command for tracking the detected motion in response to the collision points. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the collision points are passive and reactive collision points. 26. A system of tracking motion of a human by a physical articulated system which is separate from the human, the system comprising: a first control system for assigning task variables to portions of the human; a second control system coupled to the first control system, the second control system for detecting motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables; a third control system coupled to the second control system, the third control system for generating a command for the physical articulated system to track the detected motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables; a fourth control system coupled to the third control system, the fourth control system for adjusting the command for the physical articulated system to track the detected motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables by applying constraints describing physical limitations of the physical articulated system for performing motions to the command for the physical articulated system to track the detected motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables. 27. A method, implemented by a computer, of tracking motion of a human by a physical articulated system which is separate from the human, the method comprising: assigning task variables to portions of the human; capturing data describing detected motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables; generating a command for the physical articulated system to track the detected motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables; adjusting the command for the physical articulated system to track the detected motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables based on a preference of task variables associated with portions of the physical articulated system for performing motions; and storing the command for the physical articulated system to track replicate the detected motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables in a computer-readable storage medium. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the adjusting the command includes assigning preferences to the task variables based on a priority of the task. 29. The method of claim 27 wherein the adjusting the command includes assigning preferences to the task variables based on a weighting of the task. 30. A system of tracking motion of a human by a physical articulated system which is separate from the human, the system comprising: a first control system for assigning task variables to portions of the human; a second control system coupled to the first control system, the second control system for capturing data describing detected motion of the portions of the human representing by the task variables; a third control system coupled to the second control system, the third control system for generating a command for the physical articulated system to track the detected motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables; a fourth control system coupled to the third control system, the fourth control system for adjusting the command for the physical articulated system to track the detected motion of the portions of the human represented by the task variables based on a preference of task variables associated with portions of the physical articulated system for performing motions. 31. A method, implemented by a computer, for controlling the movement of members of a physical articulated system which is separate from a source system human, the method comprising: capturing data which describes tracked motion of the source system; generating constraints on movement of the members of the physical articulated system; estimating forces for controlling movement of the members of the physical articulated system to track the tracked motion of the source system described in the captured data by applying the constraints to the captured data describing the tracked motion of the source system; estimating torques for controlling movement of the members of the physical articulated system to track the tracked motion of the source system described in the captured data based on the captured data, the estimated forces and the constraints; and storing the estimated torques in a computer-readable storage medium. 32. A method, implemented by a computer, for retargetting motion of an object to a physical articulated system which is separate from the object, the method comprising: generating a plurality of task descriptors for motion of the object; generating joint variables describing movement of members of the physical articulated system to track the motion of the object associated with the task descriptors, wherein a number of dimensions of the task descriptors does not equal a number of degrees of freedom of movement of the object; and storing the joint variables for movement of members of the physical articulated system in a computer-readable storage medium. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein generating joint variables includes hierarchically managing tasks. 