A substrate support has a support structure and a coating on the support structure having a carbon-hydrogen network. The coating has a contact surface having a coefficient of friction of less than about 0.3 and a hardness of at least about 8 GPa. The contact surface of the coating is capable of reducing abrasion and contamination of a substrate that contacts the contact surface. In one version, the support structure has a dielectric covering an electrode. A plurality of mesas on the dielectric have a coating with the contact surface thereon.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate support comprising: (a) a ceramic structure having an electrode embedded therein, the electrode being chargeable to electrostatically hold a substrate; and (b) a contact surface comprising a plurality of mesas, the mesas comprising a coating of a diamond-like carbon material directly over a titanium metal adhesion layer, the diamond-like carbon material comprising a composition of from about 50 atom % to about 90 atom % carbon, from about 5 atom % to about 10 atom % hydrogen, from about 10 atom % to about 20 atom % silicon, and from about 5 atom % to about 10 atom % oxygen, to provide a coefficient of friction of less than about 0.3, an average surface roughness of less than about 0.4 micrometers, and a microhardness of at least about 8 GPa, whereby the diamond-like coating reduces the abrasion and contamination of substrates that contact the coating. 2. A support according to claim 1 wherein the diamond-like carbon material comprises a resistivity of from about 10.sup.4 Ohmcm to about 10.sup.8 Ohmcm. 3. A support according to claim 1 wherein the diamond-like carbon material comprises from about 0.1 atom % to about 10 atom % of a metal additive, whereby the metal additive changes the resistivity of the coating. 4. A support according to claim 1 wherein the coating comprises a thickness of from about 1 to about 20 microns. 5. A support according to claim 1 wherein the titanium metal adhesion layer comprises a thickness of from about 0.25 to about 4 microns. 6. A support according to claim 1 wherein the diamond-like carbon material comprises a diamond-like nanocomposite having networks of (i) carbon and hydrogen, and (ii) silicon and oxygen. 7. A support according to claim 1 wherein the diamond-like carbon material comprises a metal additive. 8. A support according to claim 1 wherein the ceramic structure comprises AlN or Al.sub.2O.sub.3. 9. A support according to claim 1 wherein the diamond-like carbon material is co-deposited with a metal additive by a process combining physical vapor deposition of the metal additive in a plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition environment. 10. A substrate support comprising: (a) a ceramic support structure having an electrode embedded therein, the electrode being chargeable to electrostatically hold a substrate; and (b) a contact surface comprising a plurality of mesas, each mesa substantially entirely composed of (i) a surface coating comprising a diamond-like carbon material having a composition of from about 50 atom % to about 90 atom % carbon, from about 5 atom % to about 10 atom% hydrogen, from about 10 atom % to about 20 atom % silicon, and from about 5 atom % to about 10 atom % oxygen, the surface coating comprising a coefficient of friction of less than about 0.3, an average surface roughness of less than about 0.4 micrometers, and a microhardness of at least about 8 GPa; and (ii) an adhesion layer comprising a metal layer between the ceramic support structure and the surface coating. 11. A support according to claim 10 wherein the diamond-like carbon material comprises a diamond-like nanocomposite having networks of (i) carbon and hydrogen, and (ii) silicon and oxygen. 12. A support according to claim 10 wherein the diamond-like carbon material comprises a resistivity of from about 10.sup.4 Ohmcm to about 10.sup.8 Ohmcm. 13. A support according to claim 12 wherein the diamond-like carbon material comprises from about 0.1 atom % to about 10 atom % of a metal additive, whereby the metal additive changes the resistivity of the coating. 14. A substrate support comprising: (a) a ceramic support structure having an electrode embedded therein, the electrode being chargeable to electrostatically hold a substrate; and (b) a contact surface comprising a plurality of mesas, each mesa comprising: (i) a titanium layer; and (ii) a diamond-like carbon coating layer over the titanium layer, the diamond-like carbon coating layer comprising (i) a composition of from about 50 atom % to about 90 atom % carbon, from about 5 atom % to about 10 atom % hydrogen, from about 10 atom % to about 20 atom % silicon, and from about 5 atom % to about 10 atom % oxygen, (ii) a coefficient of friction of less than about 0.3, (iii) an average surface roughness of less than about 0.4 micrometers, and (iv) a microhardness of at least about 8 GPa. 15. A support according to claim 14 wherein the diamond-like carbon coating layer comprises a resistivity of from about 10.sup.4 Ohmcm to about 10.sup.8 Ohmcm. 16. A support according to claim 14 wherein the diamond-like carbon coating layer comprises a thickness of from about 1 to about 20 microns. 17. A support according to claim 14 wherein the diamond-like carbon coating layer comprises a metal additive in a concentration of from about 0.1 atom % to about 10 atom %, whereby the metal additive changes the resistivity of the coating. 18. A support according to claim 14 wherein the titanium layer comprises a thickness of from about 0.25 to about 4 microns. 19. A support according to claim 14 wherein the ceramic support structure comprises AlN or Al.sub.2O.sub.3. 20. A support according to claim 14 wherein the diamond-like carbon coating layer comprises a hardness of from about 18 GPa to about 25 GPa. 