A method is provided for performing a total knee arthroplasty. The method includes making a primary incision near a knee joint of a patient and resecting medial and lateral condyles of the femur of the leg to create at least one femoral cut surface. The resecting step is performed without dislocating the knee joint. The method also includes balancing various ligament tensions to obtain desired tension and moving a femoral component of a total knee implant through the primary incision. The method further includes positioning the femoral component with respect to the at least one femoral cut surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device to replace an articulating surface of a joint in a body, the joint having first and second sides, comprising: a base component, including a bone contacting side connectable with bone on the first side of the joint, and a base sliding side on an opposite side of said base component relative to said bone contacting side, having a surface defining a first curved shape; a movable component, including a movable sliding side operable to be positioned in contact with said base sliding side upon a surface defining a second curved shape, said second curved shape being complementary to said first curved shape, said movable sliding side thereby being matably positionable in sliding engagement with said base sliding side, and an articulating side on an opposite side of said movable component relative to said movable sliding side, shaped to matingly engage an articulating surface of the second side of the joint; wherein when said base component is connected to the first side of a joint, and said base sliding side is pressed against said movable sliding side, said first and second curved shapes tend to releasable slide to a resting position with respect to each other during use of the device in the body, aligning both sides of the joint to a desired orientation. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said base sliding side has a concave shape. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the joint is a knee joint. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein one of said first and second curved shapes is substantially convex, and the other of said first and second curved shapes is substantially concave. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein one of said surface of said base sliding side and said surface of said movable sliding side is metallic, and the other of said surface of said base sliding side and said surface of said movable sliding side is polymeric. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein said bone contacting side, base sliding side, movable sliding side and articulating side include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, cobalt-chromium alloy, titanium alloy, polymer, ceramic, ultra high molecular weight polymer, porous cement, copolymer, dipolymer, hydrophilic material, petroylglupamic acid, carboxymethylcellulose, collagen, polylactide, hydroxyapatite, polyethylene, polylactide, and polyhydroxybutyrate. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein the curved shape of said base sliding side and said movable sliding side are different, one curved shape being smaller than the other. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the curved shape of said base sliding side or said movable sliding side has a curvature selected from the group consisting of: constant radius, variable radius, progressively varying radius. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein not all articulating compartments of the joint are replaced by said device. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the joint is located in a finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, spine, hip, knee, ankle, or toe. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein the curved shape of said base sliding side or the curved shape of said movable sliding side changes progressively from a center of said curved shape to a periphery of said curved shape. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the curved shape is selected to promote a desired ligament tension throughout a range of motion of the joint. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein said first curved shape or said second curved shape is non-uniform with respect to an axis passing through the anterior-posterior or the medial-lateral center of said base component or movable component. 14. The device of claim 1, further including: a protrusion extending from one of said base sliding side or movable sliding side; and a recess sized to receive said protrusion, disposed in the other of said base sliding side or movable sliding side, said protrusion and recess matable to constrain movement of said first and second components relative to each other, thereby promoting movement of the joint within desired anatomical limits. 15. A device to replace an articulating surface of a first side of a joint in a body, the joint having first and second sides, comprising: a base component, including a bone contacting side connectable with bone on the first side of the joint, and a base sliding side on an opposite side of said base component relative to said bone contacting side; a movable component, including a movable sliding side, said movable sliding side being matably positionable in sliding engagement with said base sliding side, and an articulating side on an opposite side of said movable component relative to said movable sliding side, shaped to matingly engage an articulating surface of the second side of the joint; a protrusion extending from one of said base sliding side or movable sliding side, said protrusion substantially offset with respect to a midline of the first side of a joint; a recess sized to receive said protrusion, disposed in the other of said base sliding side or movable sliding side, said protrusion and recess matable to constrain movement of said first and second components relative to each other, thereby promoting movement of the joint within desired anatomical limits. 16. The device of claim 15, wherein said protrusion and said recess are located substantially offset from a center of said device. 17. The device of claim 15, wherein the joint is a knee, and said protrusion and said recess are medially offset from a center of said device, whereby said base sliding side and said movable sliding side are less constrained to slideably engage on a lateral side of engagement than on a medial side of engagement, thereby correlating to the movement of a natural knee joint. 18. The device of claim 15, wherein the joint is a knee. 19. The device of claim 15, further including a second base component connectable to the second side of the joint, including an articulating surface matable with said articulating side of said movable component. 20. The device of claim 19, wherein the joint is a knee, and the first base component is connectable to the tibia, and the second base component is connectable to the femur, or the first base component is connectable to the femur, and the second base component is connectable to the tibia. 21. The device of claim 15, wherein said protrusion and recess engage to permit relative rotation of said base sliding side and said movable sliding side about an axis of said protrusion. 22. The device of claim 15, wherein said protrusion is a pin, and said recess is a hole sized to receive said pin. 23. The device of claim 15, wherein said protrusion is a dovetail pin and said recess is a dovetail tail, together forming a dovetail joint. 24. The device of claim 23, wherein said dovetail joint is elongated, extends in a substantially anterior-posterior orientation, and enables anterior-posterior displacement of the base sliding side relative to the movable sliding side. 25. The device of claim 15, further including means associated with said protrusion to prevent a separation of said base sliding side and said movable sliding side. 26. The device of claim 15, wherein not all articulating compartments of the joint are replaced by said device. 27. The device of claim 15, wherein the joint is located in a finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, spine, hip, knee, ankle, or toe. 28. The device of claim 15, wherein said protrusion is offset with respect to an axis passing through the anterior-posterior or the medial-lateral center of said base component or movable component. 29. A device to replace an articulating surface of a first side of a joint in a body, the joint having first and second sides, comprising: a base component, including a bone contacting side connectable with bone on the first side of the joint, and a base sliding side on an opposite side of said base component relative to said bone contacting side, having a surface defining a first curved shape; a movable component, including a movable sliding side operable to be positioned in contact with said base sliding side upon a surface defining a second curved shape, said second curved shape being complementary to said first curved shape, said movable sliding side thereby being matably positionable in sliding engagement with said base sliding side, and an articulating side on an opposite side of said movable component relative to said movable sliding side, shaped to matingly engage an articulating surface of the second side of the joint; wherein the bone contacting side and the base sliding side, or the movable sliding side and the articulating side, define therebetween a base component or movable component peripheral profile height that is non-uniform in thickness with respect to an axis passing through the anterior-posterior or the medial-lateral center of said base component or movable component. 30. The device of claim 29, wherein said base component or movable component peripheral profile height is greater on a lateral side of the base component or movable component, with respect to an axis passing through the medial-lateral center of said base component or movable component. 31. A knee arthroplasty device, comprising: a tibial tray including a lower distal surface and an upper proximal surface, said proximal surface having either a post or a cavity, said post or cavity offset from at least one of a medial-lateral centerline and an anterior-posterior centerline of said tibial tray; a tibial tray insert engageable with said proximal surface and having a mating second cavity if said tibial tray has a post, or a mating post if said tibial tray has a cavity, said mating post or mating cavity offset from at least one of the medial-lateral centerline and the anterior-posterior centerline of said tibial tray, wherein said mating cavity is adapted to receive at least a portion of said post, or said mating post is adapted to be received in at least a portion of said cavity; wherein said tibial tray insert rotationally moves with respect to said tibial tray, about said post, when the device is used within the body such that the rotation of the tibial tray insert is asymmetric with respect to at least one of the medial-lateral centerline and the anterior-posterior centerline of said tibial tray. 32. The knee arthroplasty device of claim 31, wherein said post or mating post is offset medially from a medial-lateral centerline of said tibial tray. 33. The knee arthroplasty device of claim 31, wherein said mating cavity or mating post of said tibial tray insert is offset medially from a medial-lateral centerline of said tibial tray insert. 34. The knee arthroplasty device of claim 31, wherein the tibial tray has a keel with a central axis, and wherein said post or cavity of said tibial tray is offset from the central axis of said keel. 35. The knee arthroplasty device of claim 31, wherein the tibial tray has a keel with a central axis, and wherein said mating post or mating cavity of said tibial tray insert is offset from the central axis of said keel. 36. The knee arthroplasty device of claim 31, wherein a proximal surface of said tibial tray insert includes a mound interposing a medial condyle receiver and a lateral condyle receiver. 37. The knee arthroplasty device of claim 31, wherein said tibial tray slides with respect to said tibial tray. 38. A method of assembling a tibial component of a knee joint prosthesis comprising: mounting a tibial tray to a patient's natural tibia so that a distal surface of the tibial tray is adjacent the patient's tibia, the tibial tray including either a longitudinal projection, or a longitudinal cavity, extending in an anterior-posterior direction on a proximal surface of the tibial tray, the longitudinal projection or cavity interposing a lateral bearing surface from a medial bearing surface, both of which are on the proximal surface; mounting a tibial tray insert to the tibial tray, the tibial tray insert including a medial condyle receiver and a lateral condyle receiver, the tibial tray insert further including a mating projection if said tibial tray includes a longitudinal cavity, or a mating cavity if said tibial tray includes a longitudinal cavity, extending in an anterior-posterior direction on a distal surface, at least a portion of the mating projection or mating cavity matable with the projection or cavity of the tibial tray, where the mating projection or mating cavity interposes a medial camming surface from a lateral camming surface on the distal surface of the tibial tray insert; wherein the projection or mating projection slides within the cavity or mating cavity to allow the tibial tray to slide in at least one of the anterior direction and the posterior direction so that the medial camming surface slides against the medial bearing surface and the lateral camming surface slides against the lateral bearing surface; and wherein the tibial tray insert is unencumbered by the tibial tray so that the tibial tray insert is free to slide in both the anterior direction and the posterior direction, when the device is used within the body. 39. The method of claim 38, wherein the projection or mating projection has a vertical dovetail cross-section. 40. The method of claim 38, wherein the cavity or mating cavity has a vertical dovetail cross-section. 