A monitoring system includes one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless mesh network; a user activity sensor including a wireless mesh transceiver adapted to communicate with the one or more wireless nodes using the wireless mesh network; and a digital monitoring agent coupled to the wireless transceiver through the wireless mesh network to request assistance from a third party based on the user activity sensor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system, comprising: one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless mesh network where data hops from one wireless node to another wireless node; a user activity sensor including a wireless mesh transceiver adapted to communicate with the one or more wireless nodes using the wireless mesh network; and a digital monitoring agent coupled to the wireless transceiver through the wireless mesh network to request assistance from a third party based on the user activity sensor, wherein the digital monitoring agent detects a weakness in left half and right half of the person's body; a walking pattern for loss of balance or coordination; hand or foot movement in a predetermined pattern based on accelerometer output in accordance with the predetermined pattern; feeling of dizziness or headache; ability to read text image one eye at a time; confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; or if numbness is felt in the body. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the user activity sensor comprises: an indoor position sensor, a motion sensor, a door sensor, a bathroom sensor, a water overflow sensor, an exercise equipment sensor, a smoke detector, an oven sensor, a cooking range sensor, a dish washer sensor, a cabinet door sensor, a refrigerator sensor, a refrigerator container sensor, a kitchen water flow sensor, a dish sensor, a bowl sensor, a chair sitting sensor, a sofa sitting sensor, a bed sensor, a weight sensor, a television viewing sensor, a radio listening sensor, an EMG detector, EEG detector, an EKG detector, an ECG detector, a bioimpedance sensor, an electromagnetic detector, an ultrasonic detector, an optical detector, a differential amplifier, an accelerometer, a video camera, a sound transducer, a digital stethoscope. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the digital monitoring agent comprises one of: a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) recognizer, a dynamic time warp (DTW) recognizer, a neural network, a frizzy logic engine, a Bayesian network, an expert system, a rule-driven system. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the agent monitors user activity without requiring the sensor to be worn on the body. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the agent monitors cooking appliances for a hazardous condition and shuts down the appliances using the mesh network. 6. The system of claim 1, comprising an in-door positioning system coupled to one or more mesh network appliances to provide location information. 7. The system of claim 1, comprising a call center coupled to the appliance to provide a human response. 8. The system of claim 1, comprising a web server coupled to the mesh network and to the POTS to provide information to an authorized remote user. 9. The system of claim 1, comprising a wireless router coupled to the mesh network and wherein the wireless router comprises one of: 802.11 router, 802.16 router, WiFi router, WiMAX router, Bluetooth router, X10 router. 10. The system of claim 1, comprising a mesh network appliance coupled to a power line to communicate X10 data to and from the mesh network. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the mesh network. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein bioimpedance data is used to determine one of: total body water, compartmentalization of body fluids, cardiac monitoring, blood flow, skinfold thickness, dehydration, blood loss, wound monitoring, ulcer detection, deep vein thrombosis, hypovolemia, hemorrhage, blood loss, heart attack, stroke attack. 13. The system of claim 1, comprising a patch having second BI or EKG sensor in communication with the wireless transceiver. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the mesh network to one of: a doctor, a nurse, a medical assistant, a caregiver, an emergency response unit, a family member. 15. The system of claim 1, comprising code to store and analyze patient information. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the patient information includes medicine taking habits, television viewing habits, radio listening habits, eating and drinking habits, sleeping habits, or excise habits. 17. A method to monitor a person, comprising: capturing and transmitting the person's daily activities over a wireless mesh network using mesh network transceivers with data hopping from node to node; determining a pattern associated with the person's daily activities; requesting assistance if the person's current activity varies from the pattern or if a dangerous condition is detected; and detecting a weakness in left half and right half of the person's body; detecting a walking pattern for loss of balance or coordination; requesting hands/feet movement in a predetermined pattern and reading accelerometer output in accordance with the predetermined pattern; checking whether the person experienced dizziness or headache; displaying a text image and asking the person to read back the text image one eye at a time; using a speech recognizer to detect confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; or asking the person if numbness is felt in the body. 18. The method of claim 17, comprising sensing user activity with one of: an indoor position sensor, a motion sensor, a door sensor, a bathroom sensor, a water overflow sensor, an exercise equipment sensor, a smoke detector, an oven sensor, a cooking range sensor, a dish washer sensor, a cabinet door sensor, a refrigerator sensor, a refrigerator container sensor, a kitchen water flow sensor, a dish sensor, a bowl sensor, a chair sitting sensor, a sofa sitting sensor, a bed sensor, a weight sensor, a television viewing sensor, a radio listening sensor, an EMG detector, EEG detector, an EKG detector, an ECG detector, a bioimpedance sensor, an electromagnetic detector, an ultrasonic detector, an optical detector, a differential amplifier, an accelerometer, a video camera, a sound transducer, a digital stethoscope. 19. The method of claim 17, comprising attaching a housing having one or more bioelectric contacts coupleable to the person, the housing selected from one of: a patch, a wristwatch, a band, a wristband, a chest band, a leg band, a sock, a glove, a foot pad, a head-band, an ear-clip, an ear phone, a shower-cap, an armband, an ear-ring, eye-glasses, sun-glasses, a belt, a sock, a shirt, a garment, a jewelry, a bed spread, a pillow cover, a pillow, a mattress, a blanket, each having one or more sensors in communication with the wireless mesh network. 20. The system of claim 1, comprising a housing having one or more bioelectric contacts coupleable to the patient, the housing selected from one of: a patch, a wristwatch, a band, a wristband, a chest band, a leg band, a sock, a glove, a foot pad, a head-band, an ear-clip, an ear phone, a shower-cap, an armband, an ear-ring, eye-glasses, sun-glasses, a belt, a sock, a shirt, a garment, a jewelry, a bed spread, a pillow cover, a pillow, a mattress, a blanket, each having one or more sensors in communication with the wireless mesh network. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein the digital monitoring agent detects a weakness in a body of a patient, a walking pattern for loss of balance or coordination, hand or foot movement in a predetermined pattern, dizziness, headache, text reading skill, mental confusion, speaking problem, understanding problem, or numbness in the body. 22. A method to monitor a person, comprising: capturing and transmitting the person's daily activities over a wireless mesh network where data hops from wireless node to wireless node; determining a pattern associated with the person's daily activities; requesting assistance if the person's current activity varies from the pattern or if a dangerous condition is detected; and detecting a weakness in left half and right half of the person's body; a walking pattern for loss of balance or coordination; hand or foot movement in a predetermined pattern based on accelerometer output in accordance with the predetermined pattern; feeling of dizziness or headache; ability to read text image one eye at a time; confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; or if numbness is felt in the body. 