Methods for operating, such as methods for dispersing and clustering, robotic devices (i.e., "robots") employ adaptive behavior relative to neighboring robots and external (e.g., environmental) conditions. Each robot is capable of receiving, processing, and acting on one or more multi-device primitive commands that describe a task the robot will perform in response to other robots and the external conditions. The commands facilitate a distributed command and control structure, relieving a central apparatus or operator from the need to monitor the progress of each robot. This virtually eliminates the corresponding constraint on the maximum number of robots that can be deployed to perform a task (e.g., data collection, mapping, searching, dispersion, and retrieval). By increasing the number of robots, the efficiency in completing the task is also increased.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for dispersing a plurality of robotic devices, the method comprising: defining a boundary condition; computing, for each robotic device, a relative position with respect to at least one closest neighboring robotic device; computing, for each robotic device, a dispersal velocity based at least in part on the computed relative position of the robotic device; and operating each robotic device according to its computed dispersal velocity such that each robotic device separates from at least two of its closest neighboring robotic devices by a substantially uniform distance not exceeding the boundary condition. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the relative position with respect to the at least one closest neighboring robotic device comprises a bearing with respect to the at least one closest neighboring robotic device. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the relative position with respect to the at least one closest neighboring robotic device comprises a distance from the at least one closest neighboring robotic device. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the relative position with respect to the at least one closest neighboring robotic device is computed using relative coordinates. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the boundary condition is based at least in part on a predetermined distance between each robotic device. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the boundary condition is based at least in part on an environmental object. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the boundary condition is based at least in part on a count of neighboring robotic devices. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein computing the relative position comprises computing, for each robotic device, a relative position with respect to two closest neighboring robotic devices. 9. A method for dispersing a plurality of robotic devices, the method comprising: determining, for each robotic device, a count of neighboring robotic devices; computing, for each robotic device, a relative position with respect to an environmental object; classifying at least one robotic device based at least in part on its count of neighboring robotic devices and its relative position with respect to the environmental object; and moving a subset of the plurality of robotic devices relative to the classified at least one robotic device. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least one robotic device is classified as a front line device based at least in part on the absence of neighboring robotic devices within a region relative to the at least one robotic device. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the classification of the at least one robotic device as the front line device is further based at least in part on a distance between the environmental object and the at least one robotic device exceeding a predetermined value. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the classification of the at least one robotic device as the front line device is further based at least in part on the environmental object being located outside the region relative to the at least one robotic device. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein classifying the at least one robotic device as the front line device comprises considering the environmental object to be a neighboring robotic device. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the count of neighboring robotic devices for the classified front line device is at least one. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one neighboring robotic device is located outside the region relative to the classified front line device. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least one robotic device is classified as a perimeter device based at least in part on a distance between the environmental object and the at least one robotic device being less than a predetermined value. 17. The method of claim 9, wherein a movement of a robotic device is away from at least one neighboring child robotic device. 18. The method of claim 9, wherein a movement of a robotic device is preconditioned on the robotic device being able to communicate with at least one neighboring child robotic device. 19. The method of claim 9, wherein a movement of a robotic device is preconditioned on the robotic device being able to communicate with two neighboring child robotic devices. 20. The method of claim 9, wherein a movement of a robotic device is inhibited until a predetermined condition is satisfied. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the predetermined condition is communication between the robotic device and at least one neighboring child robotic device. 22. A method for dispersing a plurality of robotic devices, the method comprising: (a) dispersing the plurality of robotic devices in a first manner by: (i) classifying at least one robotic device as a front line device based at least in part on relative positions of neighboring robotic devices; (ii) moving the at least one front line device; and (iii) moving a subset of the plurality of robotic devices relative to the movement of the at least one front line device; and (b) dispersing the plurality of robotic devices in a second manner by: (i) computing, for each robotic device, a dispersal velocity based at least in part on a relative position of the robotic device with respect to at least one closest neighboring robotic device; and (ii) operating each robotic device according to its computed dispersal velocity such that each robotic device attempts to be separated from at least two of its closest neighboring robotic devices by a substantially uniform distance. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein dispersing the plurality of robotic devices in the second manner is performed upon determining that the plurality of robotic devices can not be further dispersed in the first manner. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the plurality of robotic devices are again dispersed in the first manner upon determining a change in an environmental parameter that permits the plurality of robotic devices to again be dispersed in the first manner. 25. A method for clustering a plurality of mobile robotic devices, the method comprising: selecting, for a downstream robotic device, a neighboring upstream robotic device as a reference device; maintaining the selected reference device stationary until a predetermined condition is satisfied; and moving the downstream robotic device relative to the selected reference device. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein each of the plurality of mobile robotic devices comprises a unique identifier. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the downstream robotic device selects an available neighboring upstream robotic device having a lowest unique identifier. 28. The method of claim 25 further comprising determining whether any neighboring upstream robotic device has previously been selected by another downstream robotic device. 29. The method of claim 25, wherein a plurality of downstream robotic devices select one neighboring upstream robotic device as the reference device. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the predetermined condition is satisfied when the plurality of downstream robotic devices have all moved upstream of the selected reference device. 31. The method of claim 30 further comprising moving the selected reference device after selecting, for the selected reference device, a neighboring upstream robotic device as a reference device. 