A plurality of stretches of laser weld are executed on a structure to be welded by means of a device for focusing and orientation of the laser beam, which is associated to a component element of a manipulator robot. The focusing head is kept in the proximity of, but not closely adjacent to, the different areas to be welded and can consequently follow a simplified path, whilst the device for orientation of the laser beam aims the latter on the different areas of the structure to be welded, so that the speed of travel of the laser beam spot along the longitudinal direction of the weld stretch is independent from the speed of travel of the robot end element.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for the laser welding of a structure made up of elements of sheet metal, comprising: a manipulator robot with a number of axes, which includes a plurality of electric motors, which control the movement of component elements of the robot about said axes, and a programmable electronic control unit, for controlling said electric motors for the purpose of displacing a terminal component element of the robot according to any position, orientation, and path within a first predetermined three-dimensional space; said manipulator robot being provided with a device having at least one linearly mobile lens moveable in a direction parallel to a laser beam axis originating from a laser torch for adjustable focusing of a laser beam from the terminal component element to a desired target weld point on the sheet metal structure and for orienting the focused laser beam within a second predetermined three-dimensional space, the at least one linear mobile lens comprising a first and second optical groups arranged in series along the laser beam axis, for adjustably focusing the laser beam by shaping the laser beam with a predetermined diameter, the second optical group comprising a linearly mobile lens adapted for causing the beam to diverge, the device further having a fixed mirror for reflecting said laser beam of a predetermined diameter, a fixed focusing modulus of the laser beam reflected by said fixed mirror, and mirror means orientable around two axes orthogonal therebetween, for reflecting the focused laser beam according to a direction orientable in space; said control unit being programmed for displacing the aforesaid terminal component element of the robot along a simplified path in the proximity of, but not closely adjacent to, various areas of the structure to be welded, further programmable electronic control means are provided for controlling the aforesaid device for focusing and orienting the laser beam, in such a way that, whilst the terminal component element of the robot follows the aforesaid simplified path, the focused laser beam is oriented in the direction of all the various areas of the structure to be welded, and for each area it executes a laser-welding stretch or bead; wherein the further programmable electronic control means are programmed so that the laser beam spot on the structure to be welded is moved with respect thereto in the longitudinal direction of each stretch of weld at a speed which is not closely dependent from the speed of movement of said terminal component of the robot; and wherein during the movement of said manipulator robot, said terminal component element is able to adjustably focus the laser beam through linear movement of the mobile lens to keep a given area of the structure to be welded still illuminated, while the manipulator robot has already moved on. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the scanning device further comprises a focusing lens set downstream of the mirror means, said lens being of the F-theta type. 3. The device according to claim 1 further comprising a first collimating lens and a second collimating lens having the at least one linearly mobile lens positioned between the two collimating lenses for adjusting the focusing distance of the laser beam. 4. The device according to claim 3, wherein, upstream of the first collimating lens there is set an optical system coupled to the extreme end of an optical fibre which guides the laser beam coming from the laser source. 5. Device according to claim 1, wherein said first optical group includes a plurality of lenses including a linearly mobile lens, the plurality of lenses suitable for collimating the beam at a variable diameter with respect to that of input in said optical group. 6. Device according to claim 1, wherein said mirror means include a single mirror pivotally mounted around an axis on a support which is in turn rotatably mounted with respect to a fixed structure carrying the focusing modulus around an axis orthogonal to the aforesaid oscillation axis of the mirror. 7. Device according to claim 1, wherein said optical groups and said oscillating mirror means are driven by respective motor means controlled by electronic control means. 8. Device according to claim 7, wherein said electronic control means are integrated within the programmable control unit of the robot. 9. Device according to claim 1, wherein the two optical groups are connected together by a mechanical transmission which renders the adjustment axial movements of the two optical groups dependent from each other according to a predetermined correlation. 10. Device according to claim 1, wherein it is provided with means for sensing the distance of the device from a structure to be welded and for controlling the adjustment position of the aforesaid optical groups for varying the focusing distance of the laser beam depending upon the aforesaid sensed distance. 11. A robotic laser welding device for use in welding sheet metal, the device comprising: a laser source for producing a laser beam along a laser axis operable to a create a plurality of sequentially positioned welds at respective weld target areas collectively defining a laser beam path of travel; a multi-axis robot connected to the laser source having a terminal end positionable by the robot in 3-dimensional space, the terminal end moveable along a simplified terminal end path of travel positioned laterally distant from and linearly shorter than the laser beam path; an electronically actuated linearly mobile lens positioned along the laser axis for actively adjusting the focusing distance of the laser between the terminal end moving along the simplified terminal end path of travel and the respective sequential weld target areas along the laser beam path of travel; and an adjustable mirror for angularly deflecting the laser beam with respect to the terminal end toward the respective sequential weld target areas, wherein the laser beam remains angularly adjusted and focused on the respective weld target area while the terminal end continues moving along the terminal end path of travel. 12. The device of claim 11 wherein the linearly mobile lens is positioned adjacent to and downstream of a collimating lens. 13. The device of claim 11 wherein the linearly mobile lens comprises a first linearly mobile lens and a second linearly mobile lens positioned along the laser axis and are independently moveable with respect to each other. 14. The device of claim 11 wherein the linear mobile lens is linearly moveable along an undeflected laser axis originating from a laser torch. 15. A method for laser welding of a structure made up of elements of sheet metal, in which a succession of straight welding stretches or beads are to be made which define a laser beam path, said method comprising: providing a manipulator robot with a number of axes, which includes a plurality of electric motors, which control the movement of component elements of the robot about said axes, and a programmable electronic control unit, for controlling said electric motors for the purpose of displacing a terminal component element along a simplified terminal path which is located in proximity to but is positioned laterally distant from and is linearly shorter than the laser beam path; said manipulator robot is provided with a device for focusing a laser beam and with means for changing the distance at which the laser beam is focused; further programmable electronic control means are provided for controlling the aforesaid device for focusing and orienting the laser beam in such a way that, while the terminal component element of the robot travels along the simplified terminal path, the laser beam spot is moved along said laser beam path at a speed which is not closely dependent from the speed of movement of said terminal component element of the robot; and wherein during the movement of said manipulator robot, said terminal component element is able to perform a given stretch or bead of said succession, while having already moved further along the terminal path to the proximity of an area of said structure wherein another stretch or bead of said succession is to be performed. 16. A device for the laser welding of a structure made up of elements of sheet metal, said device being for performing a succession of straight welding stretches or beads which define a laser beam path, said device comprising: a manipulator robot with a number of axes, which includes a plurality of electric motors, which control the movement of component elements of the robot about said axes; a programmable electronic control unit, for controlling said electric motors for the purpose of displacing a terminal component element of the robot along a simplified terminal component path positioned proximate but laterally spaced from the laser beam path having a length shorter than the laser beam path; said manipulator robot being provided with a device for focusing of a laser beam and for orienting the focused laser beam and having means for changing the distance at which the laser beam is focused; further programmable electronic control means for independently moving the terminal element along the simplified terminal component path while the focused laser beam moves along the distant laser beam path to selectively make the welding beads, said further electronic control means having means for controlling the aforesaid device for focusing and orienting the laser beam along said laser beam path at a speed which is not closely dependent from the speed of movement of said terminal component element along the terminal component path; and wherein during the movement of said manipulator robot, said terminal component element is able to perform a given stretch or bead of said succession, while having already moved to the proximity of an area of said structure wherein another stretch or bead of said succession is to be performed. 17. The device of claim 13 wherein the first mobile lens and the second mobile lens are positioned in a tubular bushing which is positioned in a tubular body, the first and the second mobile lenses linearly moveable relative to the respective tubular bushing. 18. The device of claim 17 wherein the first mobile lens comprises a first optical group having two linearly moveable lenses and a fixed collimating lens successively positioned along the laser axis in the tubular bushing. 19. The device of claim 13 wherein respective movement of the first mobile lens and the second mobile are coordinated with each other to selectively adjust the diameter of the laser beam. 