The present invention relates to systems, methods and kits for low-level detection of nucleic acids, detecting at least two different viral sequences in a single reaction vessel, and increasing the dynamic range of detection of a viral target nucleic acid in a sample. The present invention also relates to T-structure invasive cleavage assays, as well as T-structure related target dependent non-target amplification methods and compositions. The present invention further relates to methods, compositions, devices and systems for consistent nucleic acid dispensing onto surfaces.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for detecting the presence or absence of a target nucleic acid in a sample comprising; a) incubating said sample with a stem oligonucleotide, an upstream oligonucleotide, a downstream probe, and a cleavage agent under conditions such that, if said target nucleic acid is present: i) a 3' target specific region of said stem oligonucleotide hybridizes to said target nucleic acid, and a stem region of said stem oligonucleotide remains available for hybridization to a portion of said upstream oligonucleotide and said downstream probe, ii) a 5' target specific region of said upstream oligonucleotide hybridizes to said target nucleic acid, and a stem specific region of said upstream oligonucleotide hybridizes to a portion of said stem region of said stem oligonucleotide, iii) a 3' region of said downstream probe hybridizes to a portion of said stem region of said stem oligonucleotide, and a 5' region of said downstream probe does not hybridize to said stem region of said stem oligonucleotide, wherein said downstream probe forms an invasive cleavage structure with said upstream oligonucleotide and said stem region of said stem oligonucleotide, and iv) said cleavage agent cleaves said downstream probe in said invasive cleavage structure thereby generating a 5' cleaved portion; and b) detecting the presence or absence of said target nucleic acid in said sample. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said detecting comprises determining if said 5' cleaved portion has been generated. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said incubating further includes a reporter sequence, and said detecting the presence or absence of said target nucleic acid comprises detecting a signal from said reporter sequence generated by hybridization of said 5' cleaved portion to said reporter sequence. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said hybridization of said 5' cleaved portion to said reporter sequence generates an invasive cleavage structure that is cleaved by said cleavage agent. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said target nucleic acid is composed of RNA and said reporter sequence is composed of DNA. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said upstream oligonucleotide comprises a 3' region configured to not hybridize to said stem region of said stem oligonucleotide. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said upstream oligonucleotide comprises a 3' region configured to hybridize to said stem region of said stem oligonucleotide. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said stem specific region of said upstream oligonucleotide is between 5 and 12 bases in length. 