Disclosed are a system, a method, and article of manufacture to provide for managing data storage media to provide secure storage of the data storage media in an automated data storage library. A logical library partition vault is created in the automated data storage library that is not accessible by any host computer. Data storage media in the logical library partition vault may only be accessed by an operator using a secure means. The logical library partition vault may comprise various components of the automated data storage library by assigning storage shelves, service bays, data storage media, data storage drives or other library components to the logical library partition vault.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage shelves for storing data storage media; at least one accessor for transporting said data storage media; a library controller for controlling said automated data storage library, said library controller is configured to: partition said automated data storage library into one or more logical libraries, wherein at least one of said one or more logical libraries is accessible by at least one host computer; create a logical library partition vault in said automated data storage library that is not accessible by any host computer; place one or more of said data storage media in said logical library partition vault; and restrict access to said logical library partition vault. 2. The automated data storage library of claim 1, wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign one or more cartridge maps to said logical library partition vault. 3. The automated data storage library of claim 1, wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign one or more of said storage shelves to said logical library partition vault. 4. The automated data storage library of claim 1, further comprising a service bay and wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign said service bay to said logical library partition vault. 5. The automated data storage library of claim 1, further comprising one or more data storage drives and wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign said one or more data storage drives to said logical library partition vault. 6. The automated data storage library of claim 1, further comprising one or more data storage drives and wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign said one or more data storage drives to said logical library partition vault; place at least one of said one or more data storage media in at least one of said one or more data storage drives; and eject said at least one of said one or more data storage media from said at least one of said one or more data storage drives only if secure access to said one or more data storage drives is verified. 7. The automated data storage library of claim 1, further comprising one or more reduced function data storage drives and wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign said one or more reduced function data storage drives to said logical library partition vault. 8. The automated data storage library of claim 1, further comprising one or more input/output stations and wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign said one or more input/output stations to said logical library partition vault. 9. The automated data storage library of claim 1, wherein said library controller is further configured to: only in response to said library controller verifying an access key, allowing said data storage media to be placed in said logical library partition vault. 10. The automated data storage library of claim 1, wherein said library controller is further configured to: prevent any host computer from directing said accessor to move said data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 11. The automated data storage library of claim 1, wherein said library controller is further configured to: only in response to said library controller verifying an access key, directing said accessor to move said one or more data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 12. The automated data storage library of claim 1, further comprising at least one door to allow internal access to said automated data storage library and wherein said library controller is further configured to: only in response to a library controller verifying an access key, allowing said door to be opened on said automated data storage library to permit access to said one or more data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 13. The automated data storage library of claim 1, further comprising at least one door to allow internal access to said automated data storage library and wherein in response to entering a key in a locked door of said automated data storage library, allowing said door to open to permit access to said one or more data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 14. A system for managing data storage media, comprising: at least one host computer; an automated data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage shelves for storing data storage media; at least one accessor for transporting said data storage media; a library controller for controlling said automated data storage library, said library controller is configured to: partition said automated data storage library into one or more logical libraries, wherein at least one of said one or more logical libraries is accessible by said at least one host computer; create a logical library partition vault in said automated data storage library that is not accessible by any host computer; place one or more of said data storage media in said logical library partition vault; and restrict access to said logical library partition vault. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign one or more cartridge maps to said logical library partition vault. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign one or more of said storage shelves to said logical library partition vault. 17. The system of claim 14, further comprising one or more data storage drives and wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign said one or more data storage drives to said logical library partition vault. 18. The system of claim 14, further comprising one or more input/output stations and wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign said one or more input/output stations to said logical library partition vault. 19. The system of claim 14, wherein said library controller is further configured to: only in response to said library controller verifying an access key, allowing said data storage media to be placed in said logical library partition vault. 20. The system of claim 14, wherein said library controller is further configured to: only in response to said library controller verifying an access key, directing an accessor to move said one or more data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 21. The system of claim 14, further comprising at least one door to allow internal access to said automated data storage library and wherein said library controller is further configured to: only in response to said library controller verifying an access key, allowing said door to be opened on said automated data storage library to permit access to said one or more data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 22. A library controller for controlling an automated data storage library, said library controller is configured to: partition said automated data storage library into one or more logical libraries, wherein at least one of said one or more logical libraries is accessible by at least one host computer; create a logical library partition vault in said automated data storage library that is not accessible by any host computer; place one or more data storage media in said logical library partition vault; and restrict access to said logical library partition vault. 23. The library controller of claim 22, further comprising one or more cartridge maps for associating data storage media with said logical library partition vault and wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign said one or more cartridge maps to said logical library partition vault. 24. The library controller of claim 22, further comprising a plurality of storage shelves for storing data storage media and wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign one or more of said storage shelves to said logical library partition vault. 25. The library controller of claim 22, further comprising one or more data storage drives and wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign said one or more data storage drives to said logical library partition vault. 26. The library controller of claim 22, further comprising one or more input/output stations and wherein said library controller is further configured to: assign said one or more input/output stations to said logical library partition vault. 27. The library controller of claim 22, further comprising at least one accessor, wherein said library controller is further configured to: only in response to said library controller verifying an access key, directing said at least one accessor to move said one or more data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 28. The library controller of claim 22, further comprising at least one door to allow internal access to said automated data storage library and wherein said library controller is further configured to: only in response to said library controller verifying an access key, allowing said door to be opened on said automated data storage library to permit access to said one or more data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 29. An article of manufacture comprising a data storage medium tangibly embodying a program of machine-readable instructions executable by a digital processing apparatus to perform method steps for managing data storage media in an automated data storage library, comprising: partitioning said automated data storage library into one or more logical libraries, wherein at least one of said one or more logical libraries is accessible by at least one host computer; creating a logical library partition vault in said automated data storage library that is not accessible by any host computer; placing one or more of said data storage media in said logical library partition vault; and restricting access to said logical library partition vault. 30. The article of manufacture of claim 29, where the creating step further comprises: assigning one or more cartridge maps to said logical library partition vault. 31. The article of manufacture of claim 29, where the creating step further comprises: assigning one or more storage shelves to said logical library partition vault. 32. The article of manufacture of claim 29, where the creating step further comprises: assigning a service bay to said logical library partition vault. 33. The article of manufacture of claim 29, where the creating step further comprises: assigning one or more data storage drives to said logical library partition vault. 34. The article of manufacture of claim 29, where the creating step further comprises: assigning one or more data storage drives to said logical library partition vault; placing at least one of said one or more data storage media in at least one of said one or more data storage drives; and ejecting said at least one of said one or more data storage media from said at least one of said one or more data storage drives only if secure access to said one or more data storage drives is verified. 35. The article of manufacture of claim 29, where the creating step further comprises: assigning one or more reduced function data storage drives to said logical library partition vault. 36. The article of manufacture of claim 29, where the creating step further comprises: assigning one or more input/output stations to said logical library partition vault. 37. The article of manufacture of claim 29, where the placing step further comprises: only in response to a library controller verifying an access key, allowing said data storage media to be placed in said logical library partition vault. 38. The article of manufacture of claim 29, where the restricting step further comprises: preventing any host computer from directing an accessor to move said data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 39. The article of manufacture of claim 29, where the restricting step further comprises: only in response to a library controller verifying an access key, directing an accessor to move said one or more data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 40. The article of manufacture of claim 29, where the restricting step further comprises: only in response to a library controller verifying an access key, allowing a door to be opened on said automated data storage library to permit access to said one or more data storage media placed in said logical library partition vault. 