The present subject matter includes a capacitor stack disposed in a case, the capacitor stack including one or more substantially planar electrode layers. The one or more substantially planar electrode layers have an etched surface, an unetched surface, and a grade bordering the etched surface and the unetched surface. Also, the present subject matter includes a lid conforming sealingly connected to the material defining the first aperture. Additionally, the present subject matter includes a feedthrough assembly connected to the capacitor stack and passing through the feedthrough hole and sealingly connected to the material defining the feedthrough hole. In the present subject matter, the one or more substantially planar electrode layers are made by printing a curable resin mask onto the one or more substantially planar electrode layers and etching the layers, the curable resin mask defining the grade and adapted to resist etching.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a case including material defining first aperture sized for passage of a capacitor stack and a feedthrough hole, with the capacitor stack disposed in the case, the capacitor stack including one or more substantially planar electrode layers, with at least one substantially planar electrode layer having on a face an etched surface on one side of an border axis between a connection member and a remainder of the at least one substantially planar electrode layer, an unetched surface on an opposite side of the border axis, and a grade extending to the one side of the border axis and across to the opposite side of the border axis; a lid conforming to the first aperture and sealingly connected to the material defining the first aperture; a feedthrough assembly connected to the capacitor stack and passing through the feedthrough hole and sealingly connected to the material defining the feedthrough hole; and electrolyte disposed in the case; wherein the one or more substantially planar electrode layers are made by printing a curable resin mask onto the one or more substantially planar electrode layers and etching the layers, the curable resin mask defining the grade and adapted to resist etching. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the grade is shaped like a sinusoidal curve. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the grade is shaped like a square wave. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the grade includes a first portion defined by a plurality of shapes covering approximately 80% of a layer of the plurality of layers, and a second portion defined by a plurality shapes covering approximately 60% of the layer. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the shapes are circular. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the curable resin mask is an ink. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the curable resin mask is deposited by a computer controlled system adapted to selectively print a curable resin mask. 8. An apparatus, comprising: a capacitor stack including one or more substantially planar electrode layers, with at least one substantially planar electrode layer having on a face an etched surface on one side of an border axis between a connection member and a remainder of the at least one substantially planar electrode layer, an unetched surface on an opposite side of the border axis, and a grade extending to the one side of the border axis and across to the opposite side of the border axis; a case including material defining an aperture sized for passage of a capacitor stack and a feedthrough hole, with the capacitor stack disposed in the case, a feedthrough assembly connected to the capacitor stack and passing through the feedthrough hole and sealingly connected to the material defining the feedthrough hole; and electrolyte disposed in the case; wherein the one or more substantially planar electrode layers are made a process comprising: printing an etch resistant curable resin mask onto the one or more substantially planar electrode layers to define the grade; and etching the layers. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the grade is approximately sinusoidal shaped. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the grade is approximately square shaped. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the grade includes a halftone. 12. An electrolytic capacitor including a capacitor stack that is disposed in a case and connected to a feedthrough, the capacitor stack including one or more substantially planar electrode layers, with at least one substantially planar electrode layer having on a face an etched surface on one side of an axis between a connection member and a remainder of the at least one substantially planar electrode layer, an unetched surface on an opposite side of the border axis, and a grade extending to the one side of the border axis and across to the opposite side of the border axis; the grade produced by the process comprising: printing a curable resin mask onto an electrode; curing the curable resin mask into a cured mask; etching the electrode, the cured mask restricting the etch; removing the cured mask from the electrode; and anodizing the electrode. 13. The electrolytic capacitor of claim 12, wherein the feedthrough includes one or more electrically isolated conductors connected to the capacitor stack, wherein the one or more electrically isolated conductors sealingly extend outside the case. 14. The electrolytic capacitor of claim 12, wherein the curable resin mask defines a visual alignment pattern. 15. The electrolytic capacitor of claim 12, wherein the grade includes a first portion defined by a plurality of shapes covering approximately 80% of the layer and a second portion defined by a plurality shapes covering approximately 60% of the layer. 16. The electrolytic capacitor of claim 12, including a second curable resin mask deposited on a second side of the electrode, the second curable resin mask defining a second grade between electrode covered with curable resin mask and electrode not covered with curable resin mask. 17. The electrolytic capacitor of claim 16, wherein the second grade includes a halftone. 18. The electrolytic capacitor of claim 17, wherein the halftone includes a first portion that covers about 80% of the grade and a second portion that covers about 60% of the grade. 19. The electrolytic capacitor of claim 16, wherein the second grade is defined by a series of geometric shapes. 20. The electrolytic capacitor of claim 19, wherein the shapes are approximately circular. 21. An apparatus, comprising: a case including material defining first aperture sized for passage of a capacitor stack and a feedthrough hole, with the capacitor stack disposed in the case, a capacitor stack including one or more substantially planar electrode layers, the one or more substantially planar electrode layers having an etched surface, an unetched surface, and a grade bordering the etched surface and the unetched surface; a lid conforming to the first aperture and sealingly connected to the material defining the first aperture; a feedthrough assembly connected to the capacitor stack and passing through the feedthrough hole and sealingly connected to the material defining the feedthrough hole; and electrolyte disposed in the case; wherein the one or more substantially planar electrode layers are made by printing a curable resin mask onto the one or more substantially planar electrode layers and etching the layers, the curable resin mask defining the grade and adapted to resist etching, and wherein the grade includes a first portion defined by a plurality of shapes covering approximately 80% of a layer of the plurality of layers, and a second portion defined by a plurality shapes covering approximately 60% of the layer. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the shapes are circular. 23. An apparatus, comprising: a capacitor stack including one or more substantially planar electrode layers, the one or more substantially planar electrode layers having an etched surface, an unetched surface, and a grade bordering the etched surface and the unetched surface; a case including material defining an aperture sized for passage of a capacitor stack and a feedthrough hole, with the capacitor stack disposed in the case, a feedthrough assembly connected to the capacitor stack and passing through the feedthrough hole and sealingly connected to the material defining the feedthrough hole; and electrolyte disposed in the case; wherein the one or more substantially planar electrode layers are made a process comprising: printing an etch resistant curable resin mask onto the one or more substantially planar electrode layers to define the grade; and etching the layers, wherein the grade includes a halftone. 24. An electrolytic capacitor including a capacitor stack that is disposed in a case and connected to a feedthrough, the capacitor stack including one or more substantially planar electrode layers, the one or more substantially planar electrode layers having an etched surface, an unetched surface, and a grade bordering the etched surface and the unetched surface, the grade produced by the process comprising: printing a curable resin mask onto an electrode; curing the curable resin mask into a cured mask; etching the electrode, the cured mask restricting the etch; removing the cured mask from the electrode; and anodizing the electrode, wherein the grade includes a first portion defined by a plurality of shapes covering approximately 80% of the layer and a second portion defined by a plurality shapes covering approximately 60% of the layer. 25. An electrolytic capacitor including a capacitor stack that is disposed in a case and connected to a feedthrough, the capacitor stack including one or more substantially planar electrode layers, the one or more substantially planar electrode layers having an etched surface, an unetched surface, and a grade bordering the etched surface and the unetched surface, the grade produced by the process comprising: printing a curable resin mask onto an electrode; curing the curable resin mask into a cured mask; etching the electrode, the cured mask restricting the etch; removing the cured mask from the electrode; and anodizing the electrode, and further including; a second curable resin mask deposited on a second side of the electrode, the second curable resin mask defining a second grade between electrode covered with curable resin mask and electrode not covered with curable resin mask, wherein the second grade includes a halftone. 26. The electrolytic capacitor of claim 25, wherein the halftone includes a first portion that covers about 80% of the grade and a second portion that covers about 60% of the grade. 27. An electrolytic capacitor including a capacitor stack that is disposed in a case and connected to a feedthrough, the capacitor stack including one or more substantially planar electrode layers, the one or more substantially planar electrode layers having an etched surface, an unetched surface, and a grade bordering the etched surface and the unetched surface, the grade produced by the process comprising: printing a curable resin mask onto an electrode; curing the curable resin mask into a cured mask; etching the electrode, the cured mask restricting the etch; removing the cured mask from the electrode; and anodizing the electrode, and further including; a second curable resin mask deposited on a second side of the electrode, the second curable resin mask defining a second grade between electrode covered with curable resin mask and electrode not covered with curable resin mask, wherein the second grade is defined by a series of geometric shapes. 28. The electrolytic capacitor of claim 27, wherein the shapes are approximately circular. 