The present invention provides novel methods for producing nucleic acid fragment libraries that express highly diverse peptides or protein domains and, in particular, methods for producing nucleic acid fragment libraries wherein the nucleic acid.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An isolated peptide consisting of an amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 134. 2. An isolated peptide consisting of an amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 133. 3. An isolated peptide, consisting of a fusion between an amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 134 and an amino acid sequence capable of enhancing, increasing or assisting penetration or uptake of the peptide by cells, said fusion. 4. The isolated peptide of claim 3, wherein the amino acid sequence capable of enhancing, increasing or assisting penetration or uptake of the peptide by cells is the tat sequence of HIV. 5. An isolated peptide of claim 2, consisting of a fusion between the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 133 and an amino acid sequence capable of enhancing, increasing or assisting penetration or uptake of the peptide by cells, of said fusion. 6. The isolated peptide of claim 5, wherein the amino acid sequence capable of enhancing, increasing or assisting penetration or uptake of the peptide by cells is the tat sequence of HIV. 7. A pharmaceutical formulation comprising an isolated peptide, wherein a isolated peptide consists of the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 134 in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle or carrier. 8. A pharmaceutical formulation comprising an isolated peptide, wherein a isolated peptide consists of the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 133 in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle or carrier. 9. An pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 7, wherein the isolated peptide consists of a fusion between the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 134 and an amino acid sequence capable of enhancing, increasing or assisting penetration or uptake of the peptide by cells, said fusion. 10. The pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 9, wherein the amino acid sequence capable of enhancing, increasing or assisting penetration or uptake of the peptide by cells is the tat sequence of HIV. 11. An pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 8, wherein the isolated peptide consists of a fusion between the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 133 and an amino acid sequence capable of enhancing, increasing or assisting penetration or uptake of the peptide by cells, of said fusion. 12. The pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 11, wherein the amino acid sequence capable of enhancing, increasing or assisting penetration or uptake of the peptide by cells is the tat sequence of HIV. 13. The pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 7, wherein said formulation is an emulsion. 14. The pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 8, wherein said formulation is an emulsion. 15. The pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 9, wherein said formulation is an emulsion. 16. The pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 10, wherein said formulation is an emulsion. 17. The pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 11, wherein said formulation is an emulsion. 18. The pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 12, wherein said formulation is an emulsion. 