A method is provided for application of part flow model for a programmable logic controller logical verification system. The method includes the steps of constructing a part flow model, determining whether the part flow model is acceptable, and using the part flow model to test PLC code to build a manufacturing line.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of part flow for a programmable logic controller logical verification system, said method comprising the steps of: constructing a simulation model of a manufacturing line using a computer; playing the simulation model by a PLC logical verification system on the computer and viewing a flow of a part through the manufacturing line by a user, wherein the PLC logical verification system dynamically interacts through input and output with the simulation model to verify a PLC code of the manufacturing line; determining if the part flow represented in the simulation model is correct to the user; generating the PLC code if the part flow represented in the simulation model is correct; and using the generated PLC code and implementing the manufacturing line according to the part flow simulation model. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said step of constructing comprises selecting a part generator. 3. A method as set forth in claim 2 wherein said step of constructing further comprises generating the part with the part generator. 4. A method as set forth in claim 3 wherein said step of constructing further comprises identifying part locations of the generated part within the manufacturing line. 5. A method as set forth in claim 4 wherein said step of constructing further comprises testing the generated part at the part locations. 6. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said step of constructing comprises constructing a record for the part. 7. A method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the record has at least one resource. 8. A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the at least one resource has at least one capability. 9. A method as set forth in claim 1 including the step of modifying the part flow represented in the simulation model if the part flow represented in the simulation model is not correct. 10. A method as set forth in claim 1 including the step of modifying the part flow represented in the simulation model if the part flow represented in the simulation model is not correct. 11. A method for application of a part flow for a programmable logic controller logical verification system, said method comprising the steps of: constructing a simulation model of a part flow in a manufacturing line using a computer by representing a part and part locations of the manufacturing line; playing the simulation model by a PLC logical verification system on the computer to move the represented part to and from the part locations within the manufacturing line and viewing a flow of the represented part through the manufacturing line by a user by collecting the part locations of the simulation model and coupling the collection of part locations with a part generator, wherein the PLC logical verification system dynamically interacts through input and output with the simulation model to verify a PLC code of the manufacturing line; determining if the part flow represented in the simulation model is correct to the user; generating the PLC code if the part flow simulation model is correct; and using the generated PLC code and implementing the manufacturing line according to the part flow simulation model. 12. A method as set forth in claim 11 wherein said step of constructing comprises selecting a part generator. 13. A method as set forth in claim 12 wherein said step of constructing further comprises generating a part with the part generator. 14. A method as set forth in claim 13 wherein said step of constructing further comprises identifying part locations of the generated part in the manufacturing line. 15. A method as set forth in claim 14 wherein said step of constructing further comprises testing the generated part at the part locations. 16. A method as set forth in claim 11 wherein said step of constructing comprises constructing a record for the part. 17. A method as set forth in claim 16 wherein the record has at least one resource. 18. A method as set forth in claim 17 wherein the at least one resource has at least one capability. 19. A method for application of a part flow for a programmable logic controller logical verification system, said method comprising the steps of: constructing a simulation model of a part flow in a manufacturing line using a computer by selecting a part generator, generating a part with the part generator, and identifying part locations of the part in the manufacturing line; playing the simulation model of the part flow by a PLC logical verification system on the computer to move the generated part to and from locations within the manufacturing line and viewing a flow of the part through the manufacturing line by a change of color at any of the part locations by a user by collecting the part locations of the simulation model and coupling the collection of part locations with the part generator, wherein the PLC logical verification system dynamically interacts through input and output with the simulation model to verify a PLC code of the manufacturing line; determining if the part flow represented in the simulation model is correct to the user; modifying the part flow represented in the simulation model if the part flow represented in the simulation model is not correct; generating the PLC code if the part flow simulation model is correct; and using the generated PLC code and implementing the manufacturing line according to the part flow simulation model. 