An apparatus includes a conveyor, a programmable motion device, and a controller. The conveyor preferably includes actuatable rollers, and the programmable motion device is preferably a robotic arm. The controller operates the conveyor, a stopping rail, and a positioning rail to move and position a box in a cutting position relative to the robotic arm. The controller determines three dimension of the box and translates a programmed cut pattern to those determined dimensions. Based on the determined dimensions, the controller then operates the robotic arm to perform the programmed cut pattern in the box with the cutting element. The cutting element preferably has square blade so that each of the four blades can be used to cut a side of the box without having to rotate the cutting element during operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A box processing apparatus, comprising: a conveyor; a programmable motion device adjacent the conveyor for moving a cutting element in at least three orthogonal axes; at least one first sensor adjacent the conveyor for determining three orthogonal dimensions of a box; a memory for storing a plurality of cut definitions, each cut definition defining one or more box cuts; and a controller operably coupled to the conveyor, the programmable motion device, the at least one first sensor, and the memory, the controller being programmable to: operate the conveyor to move a box to a position relative to the programmable motion device, select one of the cut definitions in memory, create a path for moving the cutting element relative to the box based on the determined dimensions of the box and the selected cut definition, and operate the programmable motion device to move the cutting element relative to the box according to the path to produce the one or more box cuts of the selected cut definition in the box with the cutting element. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises at least two zones being separately operable, a first of the at least two zones adjacent the programmable motion device, a second of the at least two zones conveying the box to the first zone. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises a plurality of actuatable rollers controlled by the controller. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the programmable motion device comprises a robotic arm, the cutting element coupled to the robotic arm and being translatable by the robotic arm in the at least three orthogonal axes. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the cutting element is rotatable by the robotic arm about at least one of the three orthogonal axes. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein adjustment of rotation of the cutting element about the at least one axis is capable of adjusting a cutting depth producible with the cutting element in the side of the box as the cutting element is translated along the side of the box. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein repeated reciprocating rotation of the cutting element about the at least one axis while the cutting element is translated in a direction along the side of the box is capable of producing a perforated cut in the side of the box with the cutting element. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a first rail being substantially orthogonal to a direction of the conveyor and being selectively operable by the controller to stop the box in the position on the conveyor relative to the programmable motion device. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first rail comprises a first actuator controlled by the controller to move at least a portion of the first rail above and below a plane defined by the conveyor. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a second rail positioned substantially parallel to the conveyor, the second rail being selectively operable by the controller to engage the box on the conveyor. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the second rail comprises a second actuator controlled by the controller to position a side of the box against a third rail being fixed and substantially parallel to the second rail. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one first sensor comprises a linear displacement transducer coupled to the controller to determine one of the three orthogonal dimensions of the box. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one first sensor comprises a scanner for reading a code or detecting a radio frequency tag of the box, the code or tag associated with the three orthogonal dimensions and the cut definition for the box. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one first sensor comprises a camera obtaining an image of at least a portion of the box, and wherein the controller is operable to determine the three orthogonal dimensions of the box from the obtained image. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one second sensor operably coupled to the controller to detect a presence of a biological or explosive agent associated with the box. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the box cuts of the cut definitions comprise one or more cuts, slits, scores, or perforations to be performed in one or more sides of the box and being parallel or angled relative to the sides of the box. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cutting element comprises at least one blade having at least one cutting surface. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the at least one blade is oriented at a substantially orthogonal angle to an axis of the cutting element, oriented at a non-orthogonal angle relative to the axis, or is pivotable relative to the axis. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cutting element comprises: a blade being substantially symmetrical and having a plurality of cutting surfaces; a first portion attachable to the programmable motion device; and a second portion attachable to the first portion to hold the blade therebetween. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein: a first of the cutting surfaces produces a first cut in a first side of a box when the programmable motion device translates the cutting element in a first direction, and a second of the cutting surfaces produces a second cut in a second side of the box when the programmable motion device translates the cutting element in a second direction without rotating the cutting element relative to the box. 21. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the cutting element is rotatable about a central axis by the programmable motion device, and wherein a rotated orientation of the cutting element relative to a side of the box determines a depth of the blade in the side of the box while the programmable motion device translates the cutting element in a direction substantially parallel to the side. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cutting element comprises: a body coupleable to the programmable motion device; a pivot mechanism attached to the body; and a blade attached to the pivot mechanism, wherein the blade is adapted to pivot on the pivot mechanism substantially in a direction the body is moved during cutting. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one first sensor comprises a laser sensor coupled to the controller to determine one of the three orthogonal dimensions of the box. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one first sensor comprises three sensors directed substantially orthogonal to one another for determining the three orthogonal dimensions of the box. 25. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is programmable to select one of the plurality of cut definitions based on the determined dimensions of the box or an identifier obtained from the box with a scanner operatively coupled to the controller. 26. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus handles boxes of arbitrary size and orientation when fed therein. 27. A box processing apparatus, comprising: means for moving each box to a stationary position in the apparatus; means for moving at least one cutting blade in at least three orthogonal axes relative to sides of each box; means for determining three orthogonal dimensions of each box in the apparatus; means for selecting one of a plurality of cut definitions for each box; means for creating paths for moving the at least one cutting blade relative to each box based on the determined dimensions and the selected cut definitions for each box; and means for programmably cutting each box in the stationary position with the at least one cutting blade moved according to the created path for each box. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the means for moving each box to the stationary position in the apparatus comprises means for conveying each box with at least two separately operable zones. 29. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the means for moving each box to the stationary position in the apparatus comprises means for selectively stopping and holding each box in the stationary position. 30. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the means for moving the at least one cutting blade in at least three orthogonal axes relative to sides of each box comprise means for translating the at least one cutting blade in at least three substantially orthogonal axes. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the means for moving the at least one cutting blade relative to sides of each box comprise means for rotating the at least one cutting blade about at least one of the substantially orthogonal axes. 32. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the means for rotating the at least one cutting blade about at least one of the substantially orthogonal axes comprises means for producing a perforated cut in the boxes with the at least one cutting blade. 33. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising means for detecting presence of a biological or explosive agent associated with the box. 34. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising means for determining location of contents in the box. 35. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the means for selecting one of a plurality of cut definitions for each box comprises means for selecting the cut definitions for each box based on the determined dimensions of each box or based on an identifier obtained from each box. 36. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the apparatus handles boxes of arbitrary size and orientation when fed therein. 37. An item processing apparatus, comprising: a conveyor for moving an item; a programmable motion device adjacent the conveyor for moving an articulatable element in at least three orthogonal axes relative to the item; at least one first sensor adjacent the conveyor for determining one or more dimensions of the item on the conveyor; a memory for storing a preset definition defining one or more spatial movements; a controller operably coupled to the conveyor, the programmable motion device, the at least one first sensor, and the memory, the controller being programmable to: operate the conveyor to move the item to a position relative to the programmable motion device, create a path for moving the articulatable element relative to the item based on the determined dimensions of the item and the preset definition, operate the programmable motion device to move the articulatable element according to the path relative to the item to achieve the one or more spatial movements of the preset definition; and at least one second sensor operably coupled to the controller, the at least one second sensor detecting a presence of a biological or explosive agent associated with the item in response to the movement of the articulatable element relative to the item. 38. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the programmable motion device comprises a robotic arm, the articulatable element coupled to the robotic arm and being translatable by the robotic arm in the at least three orthogonal axes. 39. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein the articulatable element is rotatable by the robotic arm about at least one of the at least three orthogonal axes. 40. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the articulatable element comprises at least one blade having at least one cutting surface. 41. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one first sensor comprises a linear displacement transducer coupled to the controller to determine one of the dimensions of the item. 42. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one first sensor comprises a laser sensor coupled to the controller to determine one of the dimensions of the item. 43. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one second sensor comprises a sniffer detector obtaining a sample of outside the box and detecting for trace material from the sample. 44. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one second sensor comprises a sniffer detector obtaining a sample of inside the box and detecting for trace material from the sample. 45. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the memory stores a plurality of the preset definitions, each defining one or more spatial movements, and wherein the controller is programmable to select one of the preset definitions. 