A method and apparatus for continuous workflow processing of biological samples. In one embodiment, the apparatus includes a probe for dispensing one or more reagents from one or more reagent containers onto one or more biological sample carriers. The method and apparatus includes processing each biological sample according to a respective sequence of protocol steps which may be ordered by a scheduler protocol. The method and apparatus also includes network capability for connectivity with additional equipment for receiving or transmitting pertinent data via the network.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for automated processing of a plurality of biological samples, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of independently accessible reagent holders; a plurality of independently accessible biological sample holders; at least one probe for dispensing at least one reagent; at least one reagent mixer; at least one fluid supply for supplying fluids to either the at least one probe or the at least one processing tank; at least one temperature controller; at least one distributed controller; and at least one computer comprising a scheduler for scheduling tasks; and wherein the apparatus communicates with a network comprising at least one element chosen from servers, clients, and additional apparatus; and wherein the network is connected to a proprietary network; and wherein processing of each biological sample is conducted according to a respective sequence of protocol steps; wherein a first biological sample, on a first sample holder, for which the processing is completed may be removed from the apparatus simultaneous with the processing of a second biological sample on a second sample holder; and wherein a first reagent container may be removed or replaced simultaneous with the processing of the at least one biological sample. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus further comprises at least one processing tank. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each independently accessible reagent holder comprises a plurality of individual reagent holders. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each independently accessible biological sample holder comprises a plurality of individual sample holders. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the biological sample holder is a microscope slide holder. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the microscope slide holder is a slide clip. 7. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein each independently accessible biological sample holder is chosen from slide racks and slide carrousels. 8. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein each independently accessible reagent holder is chosen from reagent racks and reagent carrousels. 9. An apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising at least one drawer, wherein each drawer comprises at least one slide rack. 10. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein each independently accessible reagent holder is chosen from reagent racks and reagent carrousels. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one probe is connected to a robotic head. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the independently accessible biological sample holders are transported to the at least one probe. 13. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one probe comprises a syringe pump. 14. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the biological sample on each biological sample holder my be immersed in the at least one processing tank. 15. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one temperature controller is a Peltier device. 16. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one distributed controller comprises a controller that communicates with at least one other controller that controls at least one element chosen from the at least one independently accessible reagent holder; at least one independently accessible biological sample holder; at least one probe; at least one reagent mixer; at least one fluid supply; and at least one temperature controller. 17. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one scheduler is an adaptive scheduler. 18. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processing tank pretreats the biological sample. 19. The apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the pre-treatment is deparaffinization. 20. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus further controls the temperature of at least one biological sample according to a sequence of steps in a first protocol. 21. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one reagent is dispensed on the at least one biological sample according to a sequence of steps in a first protocol. 22. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus further comprises at least one sample detector that detects the presence or absence of at least one sample. 23. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus further comprises at least one reagent detector that detects the presence or absence of at least one reagent. 24. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus further comprises at least one fluid detector that detects the presence or absence of at least one fluid. 25. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus provides continuous workflow processing of the at least one biological sample. 26. An apparatus for automated processing of a plurality of biological samples, said apparatus comprising the following elements: a plurality of independently accessible reagent holders; a plurality of independently accessible biological sample holders; a means for dispensing at least one reagent onto at least one biological sample holder; a means for mixing at least one reagent; a means for pre-treatment of the at least one biological sample; means for delivering fluid to the at least one probe and a means for delivering fluid to the means for pre-treatment; and at least one temperature controller; a first controller that receives instructions from a second controller; and a means for scheduling tasks; wherein the apparatus communicates with a network comprising at least one element chosen from servers, clients, and additional apparatus; and wherein the network is connected to a proprietary network. 27. The apparatus according to claim 26, wherein the means for pre-treatment comprises transporting at least one biological sample holder to at least one at least one processing tank. 28. The apparatus according to claim 26, wherein at least one biological sample holder is transported to the means for dispensing at least one reagent. 29. An automated method of processing a plurality of biological samples in an apparatus comprising: applying at least one reagent from a plurality of reagents to at least one first biological sample according to a sequence of steps in a first protocol; wherein at least one second biological sample can be added to or removed from the apparatus prior to completion of the first protocol; and wherein at least one second reagent can be added to or removed from the apparatus prior to completion of the first protocol; wherein the apparatus comprises a plurality of independently accessible reagent holders; a plurality of independently accessible biological sample holders; at least one probe for dispensing at least one reagent; at least one reagent mixer; at least one processing tank for at least one biological sample; at least one fluid supply for supplying fluids to either the at least one probe or the at least one processing tank; at least one temperature controller; at least one distributed controller; and at least one computer comprising a scheduler for scheduling tasks; and wherein the apparatus communicates with a network comprising at least one element chosen from servers, clients, and additional apparatus; and wherein the network is connected to a proprietary network. 30. The automated method of claim 29, wherein the apparatus further controls the temperature of the at least one first biological sample according to a sequence of steps in a first protocol. 31. The automated method of claim 29, wherein the processing includes deparaffinization. 32. The automated method of claim 29, wherein the processing includes biological staining. 33. The automated method of claim 29, wherein the processing includes in-situ hybridization. 