The invention is directed to a system and method for releasably holding a surgical instrument (14), such as an endoscopic instrument configured for delivery through a small percutaneous penetration in a patient. The instrument comprises an elongate shaft (100) with a pair of mounting pins (116) laterally extending from the shaft between its proximal and distal ends. An instrument holder comprises a support having a central bore (202) and an axially extending slot (204) for receiving the instrument shaft and the mounting pins. A pair of locking slots (206) are cut into the support transversely to and in communication with the axial slot so that the mounting pins can be rotated within the locking slots. The instrument support further includes a latch assembly for automatically locking the mounting pins within the locking slots to releasably couple the instrument to the instrument holder. With this twist-lock motion, the surgeon can rapidly engage and disengage various instruments from the holder during a surgical procedure, such as open surgery, laparoscopy or thoracoscopy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manipulator assembly comprising: a base, an instrument holder removably mounted on the base, a surgical instrument releasably coupled to the instrument holder, and a drive assembly for manipulating the surgical instrument through the instrument holder, and for manipulating the instrument holder relative to the base in at least one degree of freedom; wherein the surgical instrument comprises: an elongate shaft with one or more mounting pins laterally extending from the shaft; the instrument holder comprising a support having a central bore, an axially extending slot for receiving the elongate shaft and the one or more mounting pins of the surgical instrument, and one or more locking slots cut into the support transversely to and in communication with the axial slot so that the one or more mounting pins can be rotated within corresponding of the one or more locking slots when received therein. 2. The manipulator assembly according to claim 1, wherein the support further has a latch assembly for automatically locking the one or more mounting pins with the corresponding one or more locking slots to releasably couple the surgical instrument to the instrument holder. 3. The manipulator assembly according to claim 2, wherein the latch assembly includes a latch element that is at least partially disposed within at least one of the locking slots so as to prevent rotation of the mounting pin received therein when the latch element is in a biased position, and is not disposed within any one the locking slots so that the one or more mounting pins received therein are free to rotate therethrough when latch element is in a release position. 4. The manipulator assembly according to claim 3, wherein the latch element is maintained in the biased position by a compression spring and moved into the release position by compressing the compression spring. 5. The manipulator assembly according to claim 1, wherein the surgical instrument comprises a shaft having a proximal end and a distal end, and a longitudinal axis defined therebetween; and the drive assembly comprises a first drive for rotating the surgical instrument around the longitudinal axis, a second drive for actuating an end effector on the distal end of the surgical instrument, and a third drive for displacing the surgical instrument along the longitudinal axis. 6. The manipulator assembly according to claim 5, wherein the first drive, second drive and third drive are coupled to a controller mechanism via servo-control electronics for form a telerobotic system for operating the surgical instrument by remote control. 7. The manipulator assembly according to claim 5, wherein the base comprises a frame; and the first drive comprises a rotation drive motor fixed to the frame and coupled to a first shaft by a first drive belt for rotating the first shaft with respect to the frame. 8. The manipulator assembly according to claim 7, wherein the second drive comprises a gripper drive motor fixed to the frame and coupled to a second shaft by a second drive belt for rotating the second shaft with respect to the frame. 9. The manipulator assembly according to claim 8, wherein the third drive comprises a vertical drive motor coupled to the instrument holder via a third drive belt and at least one pulley for axially displacing the instrument holder with respect to the frame. 10. The manipulator assembly according to claim 9, wherein the instrument holder comprises a chassis mounted on the first shaft and the second shaft respectively via first bearings and second bearings so that the chassis may move axially with respect to the first shaft and the second shaft, but is prevented from rotating with the first shaft and the second shaft. 11. The manipulator assembly according to claim 10, wherein the chassis includes a central cavity for receiving the surgical instrument, and a chassis arm laterally extending from the chassis and coupled to the third drive belt so that rotation of the third drive belt moves the instrument holder in the axial direction along the first shaft and the second shaft. 12. The manipulator assembly according to claim 11, wherein the chassis arm includes a toggle switch that can be rotated to release the chassis arm from the third drive belt. 13. The manipulator assembly according to claim 12, wherein the first bearings includes a first coupling mechanism for coupling and decoupling of the first shaft from the first bearings, and the second bearings includes a second coupling mechanism for coupling and decoupling of the second shaft from the second bearings. 14. The manipulator assembly according to claim 13, wherein the first coupling mechanism includes a first spring clip inserted between an annular groove formed on a distal end of the first shaft and an internal groove formed in a first support collar of the first bearings so as to hold the first shaft within the first support collar, and the second coupling mechanism includes a second spring clip inserted between an annular groove formed on a distal end of the second shaft and an internal groove formed in a second support collar of the second bearings so as to hold the second shaft within the second support collar. 15. A manipulator assembly comprising: a surgical instrument, an instrument holder releasably coupled through a twist lock mechanism to the surgical instrument, and a drive assembly coupled to the surgical instrument through the instrument holder for manipulating the surgical instrument; wherein the surgical instrument comprises an elongate shaft with one or more mounting pins laterally extending from the shaft; and the instrument holder comprises a support having a central bore, an axially extending slot for receiving the elongate shaft and the one or more mounting pins of the surgical instrument, and one or more locking slots cut into the support transversely to and in communication with the axial slot so that the one or more mounting pins can be rotated within corresponding of the one or more locking slots when received therein. 16. The manipulator assembly according to claim 15, wherein the support further has a latch assembly for automatically locking the one or more mounting pins with the corresponding one or more locking slots to releasably couple the surgical instrument to the instrument holder. 17. The manipulator assembly according to claim 16, wherein the latch assembly includes a latch element that is at least partially disposed within at least one of the locking slots so as to prevent rotation of the mounting pin received therein when the latch element is in a biased position, and is not disposed within any one the locking slots so that the one or more mounting pins received therein are free to rotate therethrough when latch element is in a release position. 18. The manipulator assembly according to claim 17, wherein the latch element is maintained in the biased position by a compression spring and moved into the release position by compressing the compression spring. 