Apparatus (12) for storing robotic tooling for vehicle body sheet metal robotic assembly operates a robot to transfer robotic tooling between an assembly station and a rotary storage rack (56) of a storage rack assembly (28). The storage rack (56) has vertically spaced storage locations and is rotated about a vertical axis to provide circumferentially spaced storage locations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Robotic tooling storage apparatus comprising: a storage rack assembly including a base and a rotary storage rack mounted by the base for rotation about a vertical axis; the rotary storage rack having circumferentially spaced storage locations about the vertical axis for receiving robotic tooling at both radial inner and outer tooling storage locations from a vehicle body sheet metal robotic assembly station at which formed sheet metal parts are processed for robotic assembly to each other, each tooling storage location including an upwardly facing hook and a positioning stop, for positioning an associated robotic tooling mounted by the respective hook, located below the hook; and a rotary actuator for rotating the rotary storage rack to store and allow retrieval of robotic tooling at different locations on the storage rack. 2. Robotic tooling storage apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the rotary storage rack has vertically spaced robotic tooling storage locations as well as the circumferentially spaced storage locations. 3. Robotic tooling storage apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the positioning stops for the radial outer tooling storage locations extend farther radially outward than the positioning stops for the radial inner robotic tooling storage locations. 4. Robotic tooling storage apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the rotary storage rack also has vertically spaced robotic tooling storage locations as well as the circumferentially spaced storage locations. 5. Robotic tooling storage apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the base includes rollers that support the storage rack for rotation about the vertical axis. 6. Robotic tooling storage apparatus as in claim 1 further including a control for operating the rotary actuator in coordination with a robot of the assembly station. 7. Robotic tooling storage apparatus comprising: a storage rack assembly including a base and a rotary storage rack mounted by the base for rotation about a vertical axis; the rotary storage rack having vertically and circumferentially spaced storage locations for receiving robotic tooling at both radial inner and outer tooling storage locations from a vehicle body sheet metal robotic assembly station at which formed sheet metal parts are processed for robotic assembly to each other, each tooling storage location including an upwardly facing hook and a positioning stop, for positioning an associated robotic tooling mounted by the respective hook, located below the hook; a rotary actuator for rotating the rotary storage rack to receive and allow retrieval of robotic tooling at different locations on the storage rack; and a control for operating the rotary actuator in coordination with a robot of the assembly station. 