A microfluidic processing device includes a substrate defining a microfluidic network. The substrate is in thermal communication with a plurality of N independently controllable components and a plurality of input output contacts for connecting the substrate to an external controller. Each component has at least two terminals. Each terminal is in electrical communication with at least one contact. The number of contacts required to independently control the N components is substantially less than the total number of terminals. Upon actuation, the components typically heat a portion of the microfluidic network and/or sense a temperature thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: a microfluidic device comprising a channel configured to receive a fluidic sample; an electrical pathway comprising a solid element disposed in thermal communication with the channel, the solid element having an electrical characteristic dependent on the temperature of the solid element; an electrical energy source in electrical communication with the electrical pathway; an electrical measurement device in electrical communication with the solid element and configured to obtain data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element; and a computer-readable medium comprising executable software for operating the system, wherein the computer-readable medium comprises: code to provide a first actuation state of the electrical energy source, wherein a first electrical current, selected so as to raise the temperature of the fluidic sample, flows through the solid element; code to provide a second actuation state of the electrical energy source, wherein a second, lower electrical current flows through the solid element; and code to receive data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element from the electrical measurement device. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable medium additionally comprises code to determine a temperature of the solid element based on the data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element received from the electrical measurement device. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element are obtained while the electrical energy source is in the second actuation state. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable medium further comprises: code to determine a temperature of the solid element based on the data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element received from the electrical measurement device, wherein the data is indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element when the electrical energy source is in the second actuation state; code to compare the temperature of the solid element with a predetermined temperature value; and code to repeat providing the first and second actuation states of the electrical energy source if the temperature of the solid element is less than the predetermined temperature value. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the computer-readable medium further comprises code to vary, at least once, at least one of the first and second electrical currents when repeating the providing of the first and second actuation states. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein: the solid element has a thermal dissipation constant (DC); and the code to provide a first actuation state of the electrical energy source is configured to cause the solid element to dissipate a power k, wherein the ratio k/DC is greater than or equal to 40.degree. C. and less than 250.degree. C. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the solid element is external to the channel. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first actuation state has a duty cycle of no more than about ninety percent and the second actuation state has a duty cycle of no more than about five percent. 9. The system of claim 3, wherein the electrical characteristic of the solid element is a temperature-dependent resistance of the solid element. 10. A system comprising: a microfluidic device comprising a channel configured to receive a fluidic sample; an electrical pathway comprising a solid element disposed in thermal communication with the channel, the solid element having an electrical characteristic dependent on the temperature of the solid element; an electrical energy source in electrical communication with the electrical pathway, the electrical energy source having a first actuation state and a second actuation state, the first actuation state comprising a first current selected so as to raise the temperature of the fluidic sample; and an electrical measurement device in electrical communication with the solid element and configured to obtain data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein: during the first actuation state, the solid element is configured to receive a first electrical potential causing the first electrical current to flow through the electrical pathway; and during the second actuation state, the solid element is configured to receive a second electrical potential causing a second, lower, electrical current to flow through the electrical pathway; and the data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element is indicative of the electrical potential required to cause the second, lower, electrical current to flow through the electrical pathway. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein: the solid element has a thermal dissipation constant (DC); and during the first actuation state of the electrical energy source, the solid element is configured to dissipate a power k, wherein the ratio k/DC is greater than or equal to 40.degree. C. and less than 250.degree. C. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein the data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element are obtained while the electrical energy source is in the second actuation state. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the electrical characteristic of the solid element is a temperature-dependent resistance of the solid element. 15. The system of claim 10, wherein the solid element is external to the channel. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein the first actuation state has a duty cycle of no more than about ninety percent and the second actuation state has a duty cycle of no more than about five percent. 17. A method for controlling a fluidic sample in a microfluidic device, the method comprising: introducing the fluidic sample into the microfluidic device, wherein the microfluidic device comprises: a channel configured to receive the fluidic sample; an electrical pathway comprising a solid element disposed in thermal communication with the channel, the solid element having an electrical characteristic dependent on the temperature of the solid element; an electrical energy source in electrical communication with the electrical pathway, the electrical energy source having a first actuation state and a second actuation state; and an electrical measurement device in electrical communication with the solid element and configured to obtain data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element; causing the electrical energy source to operate in the first actuation state by applying a first electrical potential across the solid element, whereby a first electrical current, selected so as to raise the temperature of the fluidic sample, flows through the electrical pathway; causing the electrical energy source to operate in the second actuation state by applying a second electrical potential across the solid element, whereby a second, lower, electrical current flows through the electrical pathway; receiving data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element from the electrical measurement device; and determining a temperature of the fluidic sample based upon the data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element received from the electrical measurement device. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein: the solid element has a thermal dissipation constant (DC); and during the first actuation state of the electrical energy source, the solid element is configured to dissipate a power k, wherein the ratio k/DC is greater than or equal to 40.degree. C. and less than 250.degree. C. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the receiving data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element from the electrical measurement device occurs while the electrical energy source is in the second actuation state. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the electrical characteristic of the solid element is a temperature-dependent resistance of the solid element. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein the solid element is external to the channel. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein the first actuation state has a duty cycle of no more than about ninety percent and the second actuation state has a duty cycle of no more than about five percent. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein the data indicative of the electrical characteristic of the solid element is indicative of the electrical potential required to cause the second, lower, electrical current to flow through the electrical pathway. 