The present invention generally provides an apparatus and method for processing substrates using a multi-chamber processing system (e.g., a cluster tool) that is easily configurable, has an increased system throughput, increased system reliability, improved device yield performance, a more repeatable wafer processing history (or wafer history), and a reduced footprint. In one embodiment, the cluster tool is adapted to perform a track lithography process in which a substrate is coated with a photosensitive material, is then transferred to a stepper/scanner, which exposes the photosensitive material to some form of radiation to form a pattern in the photosensitive material, and then certain portions of the photosensitive material are removed in a developing process completed in the cluster tool.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A cluster tool for processing a substrate, comprising: a first processing rack comprising: a first group of two or more process chambers that are stacked in a vertical direction, each process chamber in the first group having a first width aligned along a first direction; and a second group of two or more process chambers that are stacked in the vertical direction, each process chamber in the second group having a second width aligned along the first direction; a first robot assembly translating in a direction parallel to the first direction and positioning a substrate in each of the process chambers in the first and second groups in the first processing rack; a second processing rack comprising: a third group of two or more process chambers that are stacked in the vertical direction, each process chamber in the third group having a third width aligned along the first direction; and a fourth group of two or more process chambers that are stacked in the vertical direction, each process chamber in the fourth group having a fourth width aligned along the first direction, wherein the fourth width is generally a multiple of the third width wherein the third width is between about 0.4 meters and about 2 meters; and a second robot assembly translating in a direction parallel to the first direction and positioning a substrate in each of the process chambers in the third and forth groups in the second processing rack. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first width is between about 0.4 meters and about 1 meter and the second width is between about 0.8 meters and about 2 meters. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a third robot assembly that is in communication with a process chamber in the first processing rack and a first processing module in an interface assembly which is positioned adjacent to the first processing rack; a fourth robot assembly that is in communication with a process chamber in the second processing rack and a second processing module in the interface assembly which is positioned adjacent to the second processing rack; and a fifth robot assembly that is positioned within the interface assembly and is in communication with the first processing module and the second processing module, wherein the fifth robot communicates with an external module in the interface assembly. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a pass-through chamber, wherein the pass-through chamber is accessed by the first robot assembly, the second robot assembly, and the fifth robot assembly. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the external module is selected from a group consisting of a stepper and a scanner. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a third robot assembly that is in communication with a process chamber in the first processing rack and an external module which is positioned adjacent to the first processing rack; and a fourth robot assembly that is in communication with a process chamber in the second processing rack and an external module which is positioned adjacent to the second processing rack. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the external module is selected from a group consisting of a stepper and a scanner. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first direction is generally perpendicular to the vertical direction and the second width is generally a multiple of the first width. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first robot assembly and the second robot assembly are contained within a central module. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first robot assembly comprises: a first robot having a robot blade and a substrate receiving surface located therein, wherein the first robot defines a transferring region and positions a substrate at one or more points generally contained within a first plane, the first plane is parallel to the first direction and a second direction which is orthogonal to the first direction; a first motion assembly positioning the first robot in a third direction that is generally perpendicular to the first plane; and a second motion assembly positioning the first robot in a direction generally parallel to the first direction. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a pass-through chamber positioned proximate the central module, wherein the pass-through chamber is accessed by the first robot assembly and the second robot assembly. 