Fragmentation-based methods and systems, particularly mass spectrometric methods and systems, for the analysis of sequence variations are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the sequence of one or more sequence variations in a target nucleic acid relative to a reference sequence, comprising: (a) generating mass signals for target nucleic acid fragments by mass spectrometry, wherein the target nucleic acid fragments result from a specific cleavage reaction of the target nucleic acid; (b) generating or simulating mass signals for reference fragments, wherein the reference fragments result from cleavage or simulated cleavage of the reference sequence using the same specific cleavage reaction in (a); (c) identifying mass signals in the target nucleic acid fragment spectrum that are different relative to the reference fragment spectrum, thereby identifying different target nucleic acid fragments; (d) generating one or more compomer witnesses corresponding to each different target nucleic acid fragment identified in (c); (e) selecting, from the set of all possible subsequences of the reference sequence, a subset of subsequences having at most k cleavage points for the specific cleavage reaction, wherein k is user-defined; (f) generating for each compomer witness in (d) all possible sequence variations of one or more subsequences in the subset selected in (e) that would lead to the compomer witness, thereby identifying a reduced set of candidate sequence variations; and (g) scoring the candidate sequence variations identified in (f) to determine the sequence of the one or more sequence variations in the target nucleic acid. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the differences in mass signals in (c) are additional signals. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein two or more sequence variations are determined. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence variation is at one or more base positions. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence variation is a mutation or a polymorphism. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the mutation is an insertion, a deletion or a substitution. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the polymorphism is a single nucleotide polymorphism. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the target nucleic acid is from an organism selected from the group consisting of eukaryotes, prokaryotes and viruses. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the organism is a bacterium. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the bacterium is selected from the group consisting of Helicobacter pyloris, Borelia burgdorferi, Legionella pneumophilia, Mycobacteria sp, M. tuberculosis, M. avium, M. intracellulare, M. kansaii, M. gordonae, Staphylococcus aureus, Neisseria gonorrheae, Neisseria meningitidis, Listeria monocytogenes, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptococcus sp., Streptococcus faecalis, Streptococcus bovis, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Campylobacter sp., Enterococcus sp., Haemophilus influenzae, Bacillus antracis, Corynebacterium diphtheriae, Corynebacterium sp., Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae, Clostridium perfringens, Clostridium tetani, Enterobacter aerogenes, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pasturella multocida, Bacteroides sp., Fusobacterium nucleatum, Streptobacillus moniliformis, Treponema pallidium, Treponema pertenue, Leptospira and Actinomyces israelli. 11. The method of claim 1, which further comprises (i) providing a target nucleic acid and a reference nucleic acid; (ii) generating fragments of the target nucleic acid and the reference nucleic acid by specific cleavage; and wherein the fragments of (ii) are provided in (a) and (b). 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the target nucleic acid is in a mixture of nucleic acids. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the mixture comprises the reference nucleic acid. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the mixture comprises a plurality of reference nucleic acids. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the mixture comprises a plurality of target nucleic acids. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein one specific cleavage agent is utilized to generate fragments. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein two or more specific cleavage agents are utilized to generate fragments. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein specific cleavage comprises treatment with an RNAse. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein specific cleavage comprises treatment with a specific cleavage agent selected from the group consisting of RNase T1, RNase U2, the RNase PhyM, RNase A, chicken liver RNase, RNase CL3 and cusativin. 20. The method of claim 11, wherein specific cleavage comprises treatment with a glycosylase. 21. The method of claim 11, wherein the target nucleic acid is in a pool of nucleic acids from individuals. 22. The method of claim 11, wherein the target nucleic acid is genomic DNA from a single individual. 23. The method of claim 11, wherein the target nucleic acid is selected from the group consisting of single stranded DNA, double stranded DNA, cDNA, single stranded RNA, double stranded RNA, DNA/RNA hybrid, and a DNA/RNA mosaic nucleic acid. 24. The method of claim 11, wherein the target nucleic acid is produced by transcription. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein sequence variations in the target biomolecule permit genotyping a subject, forensic analysis, disease diagnosis or disease prognosis. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the method determines epigenetic changes in a target nucleic acid molecule relative to a reference nucleic acid molecule. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein the target nucleic acid is from a tumor sample. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein compomer witnesses are generated based upon parameters selected from the group consisting of mass of the different fragment, peak separation between fragments whose masses differ by a single nucleotide in type or length, and mass spectrometer resolution. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein sequence variations in (f) are determined according to one or more candidate sequences having at most k nucleotide insertions, deletions, substitutions and/or modifications compared to the reference sequence. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein k is one or two. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein k is three or more. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein a simulated spectrum is generated for each sequence variation candidate, and each spectrum is scored. 33. The method of claim 1, wherein scores assigned to a sequence variation candidate for multiple target nucleic acids are combined for an overall score of the sequence variation candidate. 34. The method of claim 1, wherein sequence variation in the target nucleic acid is recorded in a record. 35. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more compomer witnesses for each different fragment have a mass within a selected mass difference from the actual mass of the different fragment. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the mass difference is the resolution of mass measurement. 37. A method for detecting a sequence variation in a target nucleic acid, comprising: (a) generating mass signals for target nucleic acid fragments and reference nucleic acid fragments by mass spectrometry, wherein the target nucleic acid fragments and the reference nucleic acid fragments result from cleavage of the target nucleic acid and reference nucleic acid by two or more specific cleavage reactions; (b) identifying, for at least two of the two or more specific cleavage reactions, mass signals in the target nucleic acid fragment spectrum that are different relative to the reference fragment spectrum, thereby identifying different target nucleic acid fragments; (c) identifying different target nucleic acid fragments in each of the at least two specific cleavage reactions that are consistent with the sequence variation in the target nucleic acid, thereby identifying consistent different fragments; (d) combining the consistent different fragments of (c) to obtain set of consistent different fragments; (e) generating for each of the consistent different fragments of (d) one or more compomer witnesses; (f) determining a reduced set of sequence variation candidates corresponding to the compomer witnesses; and (g) scoring the sequence variation candidates of (f) to determine the presence or absence of the sequence variation in the target. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein compomer witnesses are generated based upon parameters selected from the group consisting of mass of the different fragment, peak separation between fragments whose masses differ by a single nucleotide in type or length, and mass spectrometer resolution. 39. The method of claim 37, wherein candidate sequence variations in (f) are determined according to one or more candidate sequences having at most k nucleotide insertions, deletions, substitutions and/or modifications compared to the reference sequence, wherein k is user-defined. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein k is one or two. 41. The method of claim 39, wherein k is three or more. 42. The method of claim 37, wherein one or more sequence variations are recorded in a record. 43. The method of claim 37, wherein the one or more compomer witnesses for each consistent different fragment have a mass within a selected mass difference from the actual mass of the consistent different fragment. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein the mass difference is the resolution of mass measurement. 45. A method for detecting one or more sequence variations in a target nucleic acid, comprising: (a) providing reference sequence s for the target nucleic acid sequence, a description of cleavage reaction conditions, and maximal sequence variation order k; (b) determining for reference sequence s all subsequences s[i,j] in set C.sub.k, wherein s[i,j] represents a subsequence of reference sequence s beginning at position i and ending at position j, wherein C.sub.k is described by C.sub.k:={(c[i, j], b[i, j]): 1.ltoreq.i.ltoreq.j.ltoreq.length of s, and ord[i, j]+#b[i, j].ltoreq.k}, wherein c[i,j] represents the compomer corresponding to s[i,j] wherein b[i,j] represents the boundary corresponding to s[i,j], wherein ord[i,j] is the number of times s[i,j] is cleaved under the cleavage reaction conditions, wherein #b[i,j] is the value of b[i,j], wherein: #b[i,j]=2 if s is neither cleaved directly before i nor after j, #b[i,j]=1 if s is cleaved either directly before i or directly after j, but s is not cleaved directly before i and directly after j, and #b[i,j]=0 if s is cleaved directly before i and directly after j; (c) generating mass signals for target nucleic acid fragments by mass spectrometry, wherein the target nucleic acid fragments result from the cleavage reaction conditions in (a); (d) generating or simulating mass signals for reference sequence fragments, wherein the reference sequence fragments result from reference sequence s using the cleavage reaction conditions in (a); (e) identifying mass signals in the target nucleic acid fragment spectrum that are different relative to the reference fragment spectrum, thereby identifying different target nucleic acid fragments; (f) generating one or more compomer witnesses c' corresponding to each different target nucleic acid fragment identified in (e); (g) for every compomer witness c', identifying all c[i,j] in C.sub.k such that D(c',c,b).ltoreq.k, wherein D(c',c,b) is the minimum number of nucleotide insertions, deletions, substitutions or modifications relative to the reference sequence needed to generate the compomer witness c' from c[i,j]; (h) for every compomer c[i,j] identified in (g), determining all sequence variations using at most k-#b insertions, deletions, substitutions or modifications that transform c into c', thereby identifying a reduced set of candidate sequence variations; and (i) scoring the reduced set of candidate sequence variations to detect the one or more sequence variations in the target nucleic acid from the reduced set of candidate sequence variations. 46. The method of claim 45, wherein k is 1 or 2. 47. The method of claim 45, wherein k is 3. 48. The method of claim 45, wherein one or more sequence variations are recorded in a record. 49. The method of claim 45, wherein the differences in mass signals in (e) are additional signals. 50. The method of claim 45, which further comprises (i) providing a target nucleic acid and a reference nucleic acid; (ii) generating fragments of the target nucleic acid and the reference nucleic acid by specific cleavage; and wherein the fragments of (ii) are provided in (c) and (d). 51. The method of claim 45, wherein compomer witnesses are generated based upon parameters selected from the group consisting of mass of the different fragment, peak separation between fragments whose masses differ by a single nucleotide in type or length, and mass spectrometer resolution. 52. The method of claim 45, wherein scores assigned to a sequence variation candidate for multiple target nucleic acids are combined for an overall score of the sequence variation candidate. 53. A method of determining a reduced set of sequence variation candidates in a target nucleic acid relative to a reference sequence, comprising: (a) generating mass signals for target nucleic acid fragments by mass spectrometry, wherein the target nucleic acid fragments result from a specific cleavage reaction of the target nucleic acid; (b) generating or simulating mass signals for reference fragments, wherein the reference fragments result from cleavage or simulated cleavage of the reference sequence using the same specific cleavage reaction in (a); (c) identifying mass signals in the target nucleic acid fragment spectrum that are different relative to the reference fragment spectrum, thereby identifying different target nucleic acid fragments; (d) generating one or more compomer witnesses corresponding to each different target nucleic acid fragment identified in (c); (e) selecting, from the set of all possible subsequences of the reference sequence, a subset of subsequences having at most k cleavage points for the specific cleavage reaction; and (f) generating for each compomer witness in (d) all possible sequence variations of one or more subsequences in the subset selected in (e) that would lead to the compomer witness, thereby identifying a reduced set of candidate sequence variations in the target nucleic acid. 54. The method of claim 53, further comprising scoring the candidate sequence variations identified in (f) to determine the sequence of one or more sequence variations in the target nucleic acid. 55. The method of claim 53, wherein the differences in mass signals in (c) are additional signals. 56. The method of claim 53, which further comprises (i) providing a target nucleic acid and a reference nucleic acid; (ii) generating fragments of the target nucleic acid and the reference nucleic acid by specific cleavage, wherein the fragments of (ii) are provided in (a) and (b). 57. The method of claim 56, wherein one specific cleavage agent is utilized to generate fragments. 58. The method of claim 56, wherein two or more specific cleavage agents are utilized to generate fragments. 59. The method of claim 53, wherein compomer witnesses are generated based upon parameters selected from the group consisting of mass of the different fragment, peak separation between fragments whose masses differ by a single nucleotide in type or length, and mass spectrometer resolution. 60. The method of claim 54, wherein the one or more sequence variations are determined according to one or more candidate sequence variations having at most k nucleotide insertions, deletions, substitutions and/or modifications compared to the reference sequence, wherein k is user-defined. 61. The method of claim 53, wherein a simulated spectrum is generated for each sequence variation candidate, and each spectrum is scored. 62. The method of claim 53, wherein scores assigned to a sequence variation candidate for multiple target nucleic acids are combined for an overall score of the sequence variation candidate. 