The present invention provides novel microfluidic devices and methods for preventing/ameliorating formation of precipitate blockages in microfluidic devices. In particular, the devices and methods of the invention utilize microchannels of specific cross-sectional configuration and of specific arrangement as well as application of AC current orthogonal to the direction of fluid flow, in order to prevent/ameliorate formation of precipitate blockages in microfluidic devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of reducing or eliminating precipitate blockage in a microfluidic channel, the method comprising: a) flowing a first fluid into at least a first microchannel; b) flowing a selected amount of a second fluid into the first microchannel from at least a second microchannel, which second microchannel is fluidly coupled to the first microchannel, the first and second fluids mixing in the first microchannel, the first fluid having a tendency to form a precipitate when mixed with the second fluid, wherein the amount of the second fluid is selected such that the precipitate formed does not block the first microchannel; c) removing a portion of the mixed first and second fluids from the first microchannel; and d) adding a third fluid to the mixed first and second fluids remaining in the first microchannel, thereby diluting the mixed first and second fluids with the third fluid and producing a precipitate at a precipitate concentration that permits flow of the precipitate and the first, second, and third fluids in the first microchannel, thereby reducing or eliminating precipitate blockage in the first microfluidic channel. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first fluid comprises DMSO. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second fluid comprises a buffer. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second fluid comprises water. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the third fluid comprises water. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the fourth fluid comprises water or a buffer. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein flowing a selected amount of the second fluid comprises diluting the first fluid by about at least 2-fold or more with the second fluid. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein flowing a selected amount of the second fluid comprises diluting the first fluid by about at least 3-fold or more with the second fluid. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein flowing a selected amount of the second fluid comprises diluting the first fluid by about at least 4-fold or more with the second fluid. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein flowing a selected amount of the second fluid comprises diluting the first fluid by about at least 5-fold or more with the second fluid. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising applying an AC electric field orthogonal to a direction of fluid flow in the first microchannel. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein removing a portion of the first and second fluids mixed in the first microchannel comprises transporting a portion of the first and second fluids from the first microchannel, into a third microchannel that intersects the first microchannel at a region which is downstream from a region at which the second microchannel intersects the first microchannel. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the second and third fluids are added to the first microchannel by a pressure based material transport system. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the second and third fluids are added to the first microchannel by an electroosmotic material transport system. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the first fluid is diluted about 1:10 or more with the second and third fluids. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the first fluid is diluted about 1:100 or more with the second and third fluids. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising adding a fourth fluid to the first microchannel to mix with the first, second and third fluids mixed in the first microchannel, thereby diluting the first fluid with the fourth fluid and producing a precipitate at a precipitate concentration which permits flow of the precipitate and the first, second, third and fourth fluids in the first microchannel. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the precipitate concentration upon mixing of the first, second, and third fluids is about zero. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein adding a third fluid to the first and second fluids mixed in the first microchannel comprises diluting the first and second fluids by about at least 2-fold or more with the third fluid. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein adding a third fluid to the first and second fluids mixed in the first microchannel comprises adding the same volume of third fluid as second fluid to the first microchannel. 