An electroless plating chamber is provided. The electroless plating chamber includes a chuck configured to support a substrate and a bowl surrounding a base and a sidewall of the chuck. The base has an annular channel defined along an inner diameter of the base. The chamber includes a drain connected to the annular channel. The drain is capable of removing fluid collected from the chuck. A proximity head capable of cleaning and substantially drying the substrate is included in the chamber. A method for performing an electroless plating operation is also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electroless plating chamber, comprising: a chuck configured to support a substrate, a bowl surrounding a base and a sidewall of the chuck, the base having an annular channel defined along an inner diameter of the base, wherein a periphery of the chuck is sealed against an inner surface of the bowl; a drain connected to the annular channel, the drain capable of removing fluid collected from the chuck, and a proximity head capable of cleaning and substantially drying the substrate. 2. The electroless plating chamber of claim 1, further comprising: a fluid delivery system configured to deliver a fluid to a top surface of the substrate supported by the chuck. 3. The electroless plating chamber of claim 1, wherein the chuck is configured to provide heat to the substrate. 4. The electroless plating chamber of claim 1, wherein the substrate is moved to a first position above an initial position to break a seal with the inner surface of the bowl to remove plating solution remaining on a top surface of the substrate. 5. The electroless plating chamber of claim 4, wherein the chuck is configured to move to a second position above the first position to perform a clean and dry operation with the proximity head. 6. The electroless plating chamber of claim 5, wherein the substrate is transferred from the chuck to rollers at one of the first or the second positions. 7. The electroless plating chamber of claim 1, further comprising; a first chamber surrounding the chuck and the bowl; and a second chamber surrounding at least a base and a sidewall of the first chamber. 8. The electroless plating chamber of claim 7, wherein the first chamber is composed of Polytetrafluoroethylene and the second chamber is composed of aluminum. 9. The electroless plating chamber of claim 1, wherein an environment within the chamber is substantially oxygen-free. 