In a first exemplary embodiment of the present invention, an automated, computerized method is provided for determining illumination flux in an image. According to a feature of the present invention, the method comprises the steps of performing a computer learning technique to determine spatio-spectral information for the images, and utilizing the spatio-spectral information to identify illumination flux.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated, computerized method for determining illumination flux in an image, comprising the steps of: a computer executing the following steps: performing a computer learning technique to determine spatio-spectral information for the image as a function of spatio-spectral characteristics relevant to illumination; and utilizing the spatio-spectral information to identify illumination flux in the image. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of performing a computer learning technique to determine spatio-spectral information for the image is carried out by using a training set. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the training set comprises positive examples and negative examples. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the positive examples comprise synthetic examples of spatio-spectral features. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the training set comprises a feature vector set, the set including a feature vector for each positive example of the training set, each feature vector defined by characteristics of the spatio-spectral information. 6. The method of claim 5 comprising the further step of building a classifier as a function of the feature vector set. 7. The method of claim 6 comprising the further step of using the classifier to identify spatio-spectral information. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the classifier comprises an Adaboost classifier. 9. The method of claim 5 wherein the characteristics are selected by a Probabilistic Learning Tree. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the spatio-spectral information comprises a characteristic spectral ratio. 11. The method of claim 10 comprising the further step of using the characteristic spectral ratio to identify illumination flux in the image. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the illumination flux comprises an illumination boundary. 13. An automated, computerized method for determining illumination flux in an image, comprising the steps of: a computer executing the following steps: performing a computer learning technique to determine spatio-spectral information for the image, the spatio-spectral information comprising an X-junction; and utilizing the X-junction spatio-spectral information to identify illumination flux. 14. The method of claim 13 comprising the further step of using the X-junction to calculate a characteristic spectral ratio for the image. 15. The method of claim 14 comprising the further step of using the characteristic spectral ratio to identify illumination flux in the image. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the illumination flux comprises an illumination boundary. 17. A computer system which comprises: a CPU; and a memory storing an image file; the CPU arranged and configured to execute a routine to perform a computer learning technique to determine spatio-spectral information for the image file as a function of spatio-spectral characteristics relevant to illumination, and utilize the spatio-spectral information to identify illumination flux in an image depicted in the image file. 18. A computer program product, disposed on a computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: perform a computer learning technique to determine spatio-spectral information for an image file as a function of spatio-spectral characteristics relevant to illumination, and utilize the spatio-spectral information to identify illumination flux in an image depicted in the image file. 19. A computer program product, disposed on a computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: perform a computer learning technique to determine spatio-spectral information for the image, the spatio-spectral information comprising an X-junction and utilize the spatio-spectral information to identify illumination flux. 