An improved field emission system and method is provided that involves field emission structures having electric or magnetic field sources. The magnitudes, polarities, and positions of the magnetic or electric field sources are configured to have desirable correlation properties, which may be in accordance with a code. The correlation properties correspond to a desired spatial force function where spatial forces between field emission structures correspond to relative alignment, separation distance, and the spatial force function.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for moving an object, comprising: a first magnetic field emission structure associated with a first object, said first magnetic field emission structure being in accordance with a first code; an array of electromagnets associated with a second object; and a control system, said control system controlling the state of said array of electromagnets to produce a second magnetic field emission structure, said second magnetic field emission structure being in accordance with a second code, said control system varying at least one characteristic of said second magnetic field emission structure thereby causing movement of at least one of said first object or said second object, said first code and said second code corresponding to a spatial force function, said first code corresponding to a code modulo of said first magnetic field emission structure and said second code corresponding to a code modulo of said second magnetic field emission structure, said first code and said second code defining a peak spatial force corresponding to substantial alignment of said code modulo of said first magnetic field emission structure with said code modulo of said second magnetic field emission structure, said first code and said second code also defining a plurality of off peak spatial forces corresponding to a plurality of different misalignments of said code modulo of said first magnetic field emission structure and said code modulo of said second magnetic field emission structure, said plurality of off peak spatial forces having a largest off peak spatial force, said largest off peak spatial force being less than half of said peak spatial force. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first code or said second code is in accordance with a desired spatial force function. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said first magnetic field emission structure is one of a minor image of said second field emission structure or a duplicate of said second field emission structure. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first object or said second object comprises one of a cylindrical object, a spherical object, a conical object, a planar object, a curved object, a stepped object, a table, a track, a shoe, a glove, a structural beam, a robot, a hovering object, or a surface, pivot mechanism, a structural member, a cover panel, a latch mechanism, an alignment mark, a lever, a hinged latch clip, a latch knob, a turning mechanism, a swivel mechanism, a housing, a rotating shaft, a cutting edge, a bump pad, a windmill, a water wheel, a turbine, an engine, an energy scavenging device, an axle, a window, a refrigerator, a freezer, a food storage container, a boat hatch, a submarine hatch, a gasket, an o-ring, a hydraulic cylinder, a pneumatic cylinder, a gas cylinder, a pumping device, a floor, a ceiling, a roof, a shingle, a frame, a toy, a puzzle, a construction set, a belt, a harness, a boot, a skateboard, a ski, a cargo container, a scanner, a printer, a plotter, a television, a computer monitor, a generator, a transformer, a watch, or a jewelry item. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said first object and said second object correspond to at least one of a valve mechanism, a locking mechanism, a holding mechanism, a clasp mechanism, a sealing mechanism, a pressing mechanism, a pressure control mechanism, a hydraulic control mechanism, a ball joint, a wheel, a gear, a bearing, a prosthetic device, a fastening device, a tool, a machine, a motor, a placing mechanism, a lifting mechanism, a directing mechanism, a vehicular system, a robotic control system, an assembly system, a computer numerical control machine, a cross-bracing, a truss, a wall structure, a piece of furniture, an electronic connector, a plumbing connector, an attachment mechanism, a scaffold structure, a traction device, a flow control system, a storm shutter, a button, a drawer fastener, a door fastener, a safe, a fishing net, a crab cage, a microphone, a speaker, a hinge, or a measurement system. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein varying at least one characteristic comprises moving a location of said second magnetic field emission structure. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein varying at least one characteristic comprises varying a magnetic field strength characteristic of said second magnetic field emission structure. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said first field emission structure and said second field emission structure provide a frictionless traction force between said first object and said second object. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a third magnetic field structure, said third magnetic field structure providing a correlated surface, said first magnetic field structure and said third magnetic field structure providing a desired holding force. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said first field emission structure and said third field emission structure provide a frictionless traction force between said first object and said correlated surface. 11. A method for moving an object, comprising: associating a first magnetic field emission structure with a first object, said first magnetic field emission structure being in accordance with a first code; associating an array of electromagnets with a second object; controlling the state of said array of electromagnets to produce a second magnetic field emission structure, said second magnetic field emission structure being in accordance with a second code; and varying at least one characteristic of said second magnetic field emission structure thereby causing movement of at least one of said first object or said second object, said first code and said second code corresponding to a spatial force function, said first code corresponding to a code modulo of said first magnetic field emission structure and said second code corresponding to a code modulo of said second magnetic field emission structure, said first code and said second code defining a peak spatial force corresponding to substantial alignment of said code modulo of said first magnetic field emission structure with said code modulo of said second magnetic field emission structure, said first code and said second code also defining a plurality of off peak spatial forces corresponding to a plurality of different misalignments of said code modulo of said first magnetic field emission structure and said code modulo of said second magnetic field emission structure, said plurality of off peak spatial forces having a largest off peak spatial force, said largest off peak spatial force being less than half of said peak spatial force. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one of said first code or said second code is in accordance with a desired spatial force function. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein said first magnetic field emission structure is one of a minor image of said second field emission structure or a duplicate of said second field emission structure. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one of said first object or said second object comprises one of a cylindrical object, a spherical object, a conical object, a planar object, a curved object, a stepped object, a table, a track, a shoe, a glove, a structural beam, a robot, a hovering object, or a surface, pivot mechanism, a structural member, a cover panel, a latch mechanism, an alignment mark, a lever, a hinged latch clip, a latch knob, a turning mechanism, a swivel mechanism, a housing, a rotating shaft, a cutting edge, a bump pad, a windmill, a water wheel, a turbine, an engine, an energy scavenging device, an axle, a window, a refrigerator, a freezer, a food storage container, a boat hatch, a submarine hatch, a gasket, an o-ring, a hydraulic cylinder, a pneumatic cylinder, a gas cylinder, a pumping device, a floor, a ceiling, a roof, a shingle, a frame, a toy, a puzzle, a construction set, a belt, a harness, a boot, a skateboard, a ski, a cargo container, a scanner, a printer, a plotter, a television, a computer monitor, a generator, a transformer, a watch, or a jewelry item. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein said first object and said second object correspond to at least one of a valve mechanism, a locking mechanism, a holding mechanism, a clasp mechanism, a sealing mechanism, a pressing mechanism, a pressure control mechanism, a hydraulic control mechanism, a ball joint, a wheel, a gear, a bearing, a prosthetic device, a fastening device, a tool, a machine, a motor, a placing mechanism, a lifting mechanism, a directing mechanism, a vehicular system, a robotic control system, an assembly system, a computer numerical control machine, a cross-bracing, a truss, a wall structure, a piece of furniture, an electronic connector, a plumbing connector, an attachment mechanism, a scaffold structure, a traction device, a flow control system, a storm shutter, a button, a drawer fastener, a door fastener, a safe, a fishing net, a crab cage, a microphone, a speaker, a hinge, or a measurement system. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein varying at least one characteristic comprises moving a location of said second magnetic field emission structure. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein varying at least one characteristic comprises varying a magnetic field strength characteristic of said second magnetic field emission structure. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein said first field emission structure and said second field emission structure provide a frictionless traction force between said first object and said second object. 19. The method of claim 11, further comprising: providing a third magnetic field structure, said third magnetic field structure providing a correlated surface, said first magnetic field structure and said third magnetic field structure providing a desired holding force. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said first field emission structure and said third field emission structure provide a frictionless traction force between said first object and said correlated surface. 