A fluid contact surface actuation system for a vehicle, including a first fluid contact surface constructed and arranged to act against a first fluid passing over the first fluid contact surface; and a first fluid actuator coupled to the first fluid contact surface to move the first fluid contact surface between a first position and a second position to enable control of the vehicle in a predetermined manner, the first fluid actuator having a first resilient bladder that receives a second fluid such that pressure of the second fluid moves the first bladder between a contracted configuration and an expanded configuration.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a vehicle comprising any one of an airplane, helicopter and submarine characterized as having a fluidfoil, a dynamic actuation system for said vehicle, comprising: a contact surface attached to said fluidfoil and arranged to act against a fluid medium passing over said fluid foil and contact surface; and a first fluidic artificial muscle (FAM) actuator mounted in said fluidfoil and coupled along a first axis to said contact surface and adapted to pull said contact surface in a first direction when said first FAM selectively contracts in length along said first axis and radially expands as a function of increasing applied internal pressure, beginning with maximum length under no applied pressure and contracting with increasing pressure to a predetermined limit; a second FAM actuator mounted in said fluidfoil and coupled along a second axis to said contact surface and adapted to pull said contact surface in a second direction when said second FAM selectively contracts in length along said second axis and radially expands as a function of increasing applied internal pressure, beginning with maximum length under no applied pressure and contracting with increasing pressure to a predetermined limit; both of said first FAM actuator and said second FAM actuator each comprising, a resilient bladder having two opposing open ends, a braided reinforcing mesh surrounding said resilient bladder and having two opposing open ends in coordinated alignment with said opposing open ends of said resilient bladder, said braided reinforcing mesh having a braid angle defining said predetermined limit, a first end-fitting sealingly inserted into one open end of said resilient bladder and affixed within one open end of said braided reinforcing mesh, said first end-fitting having a port for receiving into or exhausting from said bladder a pressurized fluid, a second end-fitting sealingly inserted into the second open end of said resilient bladder and affixed within the second open end of said braided reinforcing mesh; a transfer mechanism coupled between said first FAM actuator and said contact surface and antagonistically coupled between said second FAM actuator and said contact surface; a first three-way valve for selectively controlling a flow of said pressurized fluid into and out from said first FAM actuator such that when an internal pressure within said first FAM is increased said first FAM is radially expanded and axially contracted, and when an internal pressure within said first FAM is decreased said first FAM is radially contracted and axially expanded; a second three-way valve for selectively controlling a flow of said pressurized fluid into and out from said second FAM such that when an internal pressure within said second FAM is increased said second FAM is radially expanded and axially contracted, and when an internal pressure within said second FAM is decreased said second FAM is radially contracted and axially expanded; said first three-way valve toggling simultaneously and opposite to said second three-way valve to cause dynamic bidirectional deflection of said fluid contact surface to any angle between a first position and a second position at a desired frequency profile, by alternately reducing internal pressure in said first FAM bladder while increasing internal pressure in said second FAM bladder from a lower pressure P.sub.L to a desired operational pressure P.sub.H thereby pulling said fluid contact surface in said second direction, and by increasing internal pressure in said first FAM bladder from a lower pressure P.sub.L to a desired operational pressure P.sub.H while reducing internal pressure in said second FAM bladder to pull said fluid contact surface in said first direction. 2. A system according to claim 1, further comprising: a lock coupled to said contact surface to maintain said contact surface in a fixed position. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein said second end-fitting has a port for receiving into or exhausting fluid from said resilient bladder. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein said first FAM actuator resilient bladder comprises a resilient membrane and said braided reinforcing mesh is embedded within said resilient membrane. 5. The system according to claim 1 wherein said first and second valves are each a three-way solenoid valve for selectively and individually pressurizing, exhausting or isolating said first and second FAM actuator resilient bladders. 6. A system according to claim 1, wherein said transfer mechanism further comprises: a first linkage connected between said contact surface and said first FAM actuator, said first linkage adapted to cause, in response to said axial contraction of said first FAM actuator, said contact surface to move in a first direction to any point along a continuum between a first position and a second position to enable control of the vehicle; and a second linkage connected to said contact surface and said second FAM actuator and antagonistically disposed to oppose the motion of the contact surface in said first direction and adapted to cause said contact surface to move in a second direction opposite of said first direction in response to axial contraction of said second FAM actuator. 7. A system according to claim 1, wherein said contact surface is a flap foil. 8. The system according to claim 7, wherein said first FAM actuator resilient bladder comprises a resilient membrane and said braided reinforcing mesh is embedded within said resilient membrane. 9. A system according to claim 1, wherein said contact surface is supported by a frame internal to said fluidfoil and said first FAM actuator is coupled to said frame. 10. A system according to claim 9, wherein said frame includes multiple elements pivotally coupled together to move relative to each other. 11. A system according to claim 9, wherein said contact surface is a flexible skin. 12. A system according to claim 11, wherein said contact surface is a composite material. 13. A system according to claim 11, wherein said actuation system changes the shape of said frame and of the contact surface. 14. The system according to claim 1 wherein said first FAM actuator resilient bladder is constructed of a resilient membrane, said first FAM actuator first end-fitting and said second end-fitting are each comprised of a recessed portion for insertion into said resilient membrane and an outer surface, said recessed portion having a diameter of the less than a diameter of the respective outer surfaces by twice a combined thickness of said resilient membrane and the braided reinforcing mesh such that an outside surface of the braided reinforcing mesh is flush with an outer surface of said outer surfaces when said end-fittings are inserted into said opposing open ends, and the diameter of the recessed portions are substantially equivalent to an internal diameter of said resilient membrane, and a band is clamped over said braided reinforcing mesh and said resilient membrane said thereby maintaining said resilient membrane in sealed contact with said recessed portion. 15. The system according to claim 14 wherein said band is a wire winding or press-fit sleeve. 16. The system according to claim 14 wherein said recessed portion is textured on an external surface for cooperative engagement with said resilient membrane, said texture selected from the group selected from the group consisting of threading, annular grooving, dimpling, knurling, cross-hatching, and roughening. 