The invention provides methods and devices for detecting the presence of one or more target analytes in a sample employing a channel having affixed therein one or more binding partners for each target analyte. Assays are carried out by transporting the sample through the channel to each successive binding partner so that target analyte present in said sample binds to the corresponding binding partner. The sample is then transported beyond the binding partner(s), followed by detection of any target analyte bound to each binding partner. In one embodiment, binding efficiency is increased by the use of segmented transport, wherein a first bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with the sample precedes the sample during transport and a second bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with the sample follows the sample. Many configurations are possible for the device of the invention. A preferred device includes: a substrate with a channel formed in its surface, and a cover element that overlies and seals the channel. Binding partner(s) are affixed to the surface of the cover element facing the channel lumen.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for detecting the presence of a first target analyte in a sample, said device comprising a capillary tube comprising a wall and a lumen; a first electrode projecting into the lumen; a permeation layer overlying said first electrode, and a first binding partner for said first target analyte attached to said permeation layer; a semipermeable tube which is inserted into the capillary tube, wherein the semipermeable tube encircles the first electrode and defines an annular space with the capillary wall; and a second electrode located in the annular space between the semipermeable tube and the capillary wall. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said capillary tube has a cross-sectional diameter of about 100 .mu.m or less. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein at least about 100 different binding partners are affixed to distinct locations on said permeation layer. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein said first binding partner is selected from the group consisting of an antibody, a binding protein, and a nucleic acid. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the permeation layer has a porosity that excludes one or more target analyte molecule(s). 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the permeation layer is hydrophilic. 7. The device of claims 1 or 3, wherein the semipermeable tube is not permeable to said target analyte(s). 8. The device of claim 1, wherein semipermeable tube is permeable to ions. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein said annular space comprises a conductive fluid. 10. A device for detecting the presence of a first target analyte in a sample, said device comprising a capillary tube comprising a wall and a lumen, wherein said capillary tube has a cross-sectional diameter of about 100 .mu.m or less; a first electrode projecting into the lumen; a permeation layer overlying said first electrode, wherein the permeation layer is hydrophilic and has a porosity that excludes said first target analyte molecule(s); a first binding partner for said first target analyte attached to said permeation layer; a semipermeable tube which is inserted into the capillary tube, wherein the semipermeable tube encircles the first electrode and defines an annular space with the capillary wall, wherein the semipermeable tube is not permeable to said first target analyte, and wherein the semipermeable tube is permeable to ions; and a second electrode located in the annular space between the semipermeable tube and the capillary wall. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein at least about 100 different binding partners are affixed to distinct locations on said permeation layer. 12. The device of claim 10, wherein said first binding partner is selected from the group consisting of an antibody, a binding protein, and a nucleic acid. 13. The device of claim 10, wherein said annular space comprises a conductive fluid. 