Featured is a controller for a motor that is ultra-compact, with a power density of at least about 20 watts per cubic cm (W/cm.sup.3). The controller utilizes a common ground for power circuitry, which energizes the windings of the motor, and the signal circuitry, which controls this energization responsive to signals from one or more sensors. Also, the ground is held at a stable potential without galvanic isolation. The circuits, their components and connectors are sized and located to minimize their inductance and heat is dissipated by conduction to the controller's exterior such as by a thermally conductive and electrically insulating material (e.g., potable epoxy). The controller uses a single current sensor for plural windings and preferably a single heat sensor within the controller. The body of the controller can also function as the sole plug connector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controller for a motor having an output element and a winding, comprising: a power circuit that controls current in the winding of the motor, a signal circuit that controls the power circuit; an electrical ground common to said power and said signal circuits, and electrical connectors among said ground and said power and said signal circuits, said power and signal circuits, ground, and electrical connectors being ultra-compact to produce substantially the same potential throughout said ground during the operation of the controller. 2. The controller of claim 1 wherein said electrical connectors are characterized by a very low inductance. 3. The controller of claim 1 wherein said connectors include a common mode choke. 4. The controller of claim 1, further comprising a sensor that observes current in the power circuit, wherein said electrical connectors also connect said sensor to said circuit. 5. The controller of either of claims 1 and 4 wherein said electrical connectors provide continuous electrical connection with no isolators. 6. The controller of claim 1 wherein said ground is a plane of a conductive material with a very low inductance. 7. The controller of claim 1, further comprising shielding that manages EMI. 8. The controller of claim 1 further comprising a thermally conductive, electrically insulating casting that at least in part encases said controller to provide a conductive thermal path to communicate heat generated within said controller to its exterior surface. 9. The controller of claim 1 further comprising electrical conductors exterior to the controller and at least one additional one of said controllers, said second electrical conductors forming a network of said controllers and their associated motors. 10. The controller of claim 9 wherein said motors, when acted on by an external force, function as generators of electrical power that can be distributed throughout said network. 11. The controller of claim 8 wherein material comprising said casting is an epoxy. 12. The controller of any of claims 8 or 11 where said casting encapsulates said controller so as to block fluid flow into the controller. 13. The controller of any of claims 11 wherein the predetermined value for said casting is one of about 1-3 cm, or less or about 2 cm or less, and a thermal conductivity of the casting is in excess of about 1 W/m-.degree. K. 14. The controller of claim 8 wherein said casting is in thermally conducting direct contact with hot spot components of said power and signal circuits. 15. The controller of claim 8 further comprising a heat sink exterior to said casting and in a heat-transmissive relationship with it. 16. The controller either of claim 8 wherein said power circuit includes a PC board, plural power transistors mounted on said PC board at its periphery, and a DC to DC transformer that is disposed with respect to said plural power transistors. 17. The controller of claim 16 wherein said power transistors are FET's having heat-conducting backs facing outwardly and in a conductive heat-transferring relationship with said casing. 18. The controller of either of claims 1 or 8, further comprising a position sensor, wherein the active read head of said position sensor comprises an encoder that detects the position of the output of the motor and is co-located on and integral with the controller. 19. The controller of claim 18 wherein said electrical connectors connect said encoder with said signal circuit to provide said positional information. 20. The controller of claim 19 wherein said encoder connectors have a length of less than about 10 mm. 21. The controller of claims 19 or 20, wherein said encoder is an optical encoder. 22. The controller of claim 18 wherein said encoder is enclosed within said controller and contributes no additional volume to its bulk. 23. The controller of claim 22 wherein said second electrical conductors interconnect said signal circuits of each of said controllers to coordinate the energization of the motor windings of the motors and to control the distribution of electrical power among said networked motors and controllers. 24. A controller for a motor having an output element and a winding, comprising: a power circuit that controls current in the winding of the motor, a signal circuit that controls the power circuit; an electrical ground common to said power and said signal circuits; electrical connectors among said ground and said power and said signal circuits, said power and signal circuits, ground, and electrical connectors being ultra-compact to produce substantially the same potential throughout said ground during the operation of the controller; and a thermally conductive, electrically insulating casting that at least in part encases said controller to provide a conductive thermal path to communicate heat generated within said controller to its exterior surface, wherein the casting is arranged so that a heat conductive path from any point within the controller to the exterior surface of the controller is less than a predetermined value such that the internal heat transfer for heat dissipation is principally conductive and sufficient to produce a substantially isothermal temperature gradient within the controller. 25. The controller of claim 24, further comprising a temperature sensor, where said sensor includes a single temperature sensor located within the controller. 26. The controller of either claim 24 or 25 where said casting encapsulates said controller so as to block fluid flow into the controller. 27. A controller for a motor having an output element and a winding, comprising: a power circuit that controls current in the winding of the motor, a signal circuit that controls the power circuit; an electrical ground common to said power and said signal circuits; electrical connectors among said ground and said power and said signal circuits, said power and signal circuits, ground, and electrical connectors being ultra-compact to produce substantially the same potential throughout said ground during the operation of the controller; a thermally conductive, electrically insulating casting that at least in part encases said controller to provide a conductive thermal path to communicate heat generated within said controller to its exterior surface; and a heat sink exterior to said casting and in a heat-transmissive relationship with it, wherein said heat sink is a housing of said motor. 28. A controller for a motor having an output element and a winding, comprising: a power circuit that controls current in the winding of the motor, a signal circuit that controls the power circuit; an electrical ground common to said power and said signal circuits; electrical connectors among said ground and said power and said signal circuits, said power and signal circuits, ground, and electrical connectors being ultra-compact to produce substantially the same potential throughout said ground during the operation of the controller; a thermally conductive, electrically insulating casting that at least in part encases said controller to provide a conductive thermal path to communicate heat generated within said controller to its exterior surface; and a heat sink exterior to said casting and in a heat-transmissive relationship with it, wherein said casting has flutes on an exterior surface not in contact with said heat sink to facilitate the transfer of heat from said casting to the surrounding environment. 29. The controller of claim 28 wherein said flutes are structured to hold a conductor exterior to the controller. 30. The controller of claim 29 wherein said flutes contain an electrical contact to one of said electrical connectors of the controller adapted to make electrical connection with said conductor received in said flute. 31. A controller for a motor having an output element and a winding, comprising: a power circuit that controls current in the winding of the motor, a signal circuit that controls the power circuit; an electrical ground common to said power and said signal circuits, electrical connectors among said ground and said power and said signal circuits, said power and signal circuits, ground, and electrical connectors being ultra-compact to produce substantially the same potential throughout said ground during the operation of the controller; and a sensor that observes current in the power circuit, wherein the winding is plural windings and said sensor includes a single current sensor that provides a measurement of the currents flowing in said plural windings. 32. The controller of claim 31 wherein said single current sensor comprises a high speed operational amplifier connected across a high precision resistor. 33. The controller of claim 31 wherein said electrical connectors connect one lead of said resistor to said ground. 