Disclosed is a system and method conducting real-time PCR. Capture molecules of a specific design are immobilized on a solid support, and contacted with amplicons produced in one or more PCR cycles. Detection of amplicons may take place during or between the PCR cycles while the solid support is in fluidic contact with the PCR solution. In an alternate embodiment detection of the amplicons takes place when the solid support is not in fluidic contact with the PCR solution. The method is suitable for the simultaneous detection and quantification of closely homologous target molecules.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A diagnostic and/or quantification kit of a biological organism or part of an organism comprising: (a) specific primers for the amplification of a nucleotide sequence; (b) a fluorescent label for labelling the amplified sequence; (c) an insoluble solid support surface upon which single-stranded unlabeled capture molecules are covalently bound, said capture molecules being disposed upon the surface of the solid support according to an array, wherein said capture molecules comprise a spacer portion comprising a nucleotide sequence of at least 40 bases in length and a capture portion of between 10 and 60 bases which is able to specifically bind to a nucleotide sequence of said organism or part of it; and (d) a closed reaction chamber for performing a genetic amplification together with the identification and/or quantification of amplified nucleotide sequences from said organism or part of it. 2. The diagnostic and/or quantification kit of claim 1, wherein the capture portion of the capture molecules contain from 15 to 40 nucleotides able to specifically bind to the nucleotide sequence of said organism or part of it. 3. The diagnostic and/or quantification kit of claim 1, wherein the capture portion of the capture molecules contain from 20 to 30 nucleotides able to specifically bind to the nucleotide sequence of said organism or part of it. 4. The diagnostic and/or quantification kit of claim 1, wherein the capture molecules are immobilized by a 5' end. 5. The diagnostic and/or quantification kit of claim 1, wherein the capture molecules are immobilized by a 3' end. 6. The diagnostic and/or quantification kit of claim 1, wherein the array comprises at least 4 different capture molecules that bind specifically to at least 4 homologous amplified nucleotide sequences of the organisms or part of it. 7. The diagnostic and/or quantification kit of claim 6, wherein the density of the array is at least 4 different capture molecules per cm.sup.2 of solid support surface. 8. The diagnostic and/or quantification kit of claim 1, wherein the capture molecules are immobilized on a solid support such that the spacer portion is located between the solid support and the capture portion. 9. The diagnostic and/or quantification kit of claim 1, wherein the spacer portion is a polynucleotide chain having a length of at least 90 nucleotides. 10. The diagnostic and/or quantification kit of claim 1, wherein the spacer portion has at least 60% homology with SEQ ID NO: 2. 11. The diagnostic and/or quantification kit of claim 1, wherein the spacer portion has at least 60% homology with SEQ ID NO: 3. 12. The diagnostic and/or quantification kit of claim 1, wherein the kit further comprises one or more of the following: a dNTP, a thermostable DNA polymerase, a buffer, and a nucleotide molecule to be used as an internal standard. 13. The diagnostic and/or quantification kit of claim 1, wherein the material for the support is selected from the group consisting of glass, an electronic device, a silicon support, a plastic support, a compact disc, a gel layer, silica, metal and mixtures thereof. 14. A diagnostic and/or quantification kit of a biological organism or part of an organism comprising: (a) specific primers for the amplification of a nucleotide sequence; (b) a fluorescent label for labelling the amplified sequence; (c) an insoluble solid support surface upon which single-stranded unlabeled capture molecules are covalently bound, said capture molecules being disposed upon the surface of the solid support according to an array, wherein said capture molecules comprise a spacer portion comprising a nucleotide sequence of at least 40 bases in length and a capture portion of between 10 to 60 bases which is able to specifically bind to a nucleotide sequence of said organism or part of it; (d) a closed reaction chamber for performing a genetic amplification together with the identification and/or quantification of amplified nucleotide sequences from said organism or part of it; and (e) a microlaboratory system based upon the use of microfluidic technology which is able to perform the genetic amplification and the identification of amplified nucleotide sequence upon the same solid support. 