The invention relates to uses of polypeptides having amylase activity, nucleic acids encoding them, and methods for making and using them. For example, in one aspect, the invention provides methods for making alcohol using polypeptides of the invention. In one aspect, the polypeptides having amylase activity have increased activity and stability at acidic, neutral and alkaline pH and increased temperature. In one aspect, the invention provides methods for producing an alcohol, for producing a high-maltose or a high-glucose syrup or a mixed syrup, for liquifying a starch-comprising composition, for hydrolyzing a starch, comprising use of polypeptides of the invention, or polypeptides encoded by the nucleic acids of this invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for producing ethanol comprising: (a) providing a polypeptide having alpha-amylase activity comprising: (i) an amino acid sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:42, (ii) an amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid having at least 98% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:41, or (iii) an enzymatically active portion of SEQ ID NO:42 comprising at least 150 consecutive amino acids of SEQ ID NO:42; wherein the enzymatically active portion has alpha-amylase activity; (b) contacting a starch-comprising composition with the polypeptide of (a) to produce a sugar; and (c) fermenting the sugar of (b) to produce ethanol. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:42 is 96%. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide is encoded by a nucleic acid comprising SEQ ID NO:41. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid or polypeptide is an isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid or polypeptide. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the starch-comprising composition is derived from rice, germinated rice, corn, barley, wheat, legumes or sweet potato. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:42 is 97%. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:42 is 98%. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:41 or SEQ ID NO:42 is 99%. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:42. 