A vehicle framing system for framing an automotive vehicle body from a plurality of separate body components wherein the body components each include a reference surface. The system includes an assembly station having spaced-apart frame members positioned so that, when a vehicle carrier supporting the vehicle body components is positioned at the assembly station, the frame members extend along opposite sides of the vehicle carrier. At least two docking stations are secured to each frame member at predetermined locations. A robot mounts its associated tool arm with a docking station. At least one set of reference block and framing clamp is secured to each tool arm and these framing clamps maintain the reference surfaces of the vehicle body components against the reference blocks to hold the vehicle components at a predetermined position relative to each other. After each robot positions each associated tool arm with the docking station, the robot disengages from the tool arm and then welds the body components together by a welding gun carried by the robots.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for framing a vehicle body from a plurality of separate body components, at least one of the vehicle body components having a reference surface, comprising the steps of: moving the vehicle body in a preassembled condition to an assembly station between spaced apart stationary framing members; moving a plurality of tool arms by robots, each robot engaging a first surface on its associated tool arm, to a position in which a second surface on each tool arm abuts against an associated docking station fixedly secured to at least one of the framing members so that the tool arms are at predefined positions with respect to the framing members, one robot being associated with each tool arm; clamping said tool arms to said docking stations; and clamping said tool arms to reference surfaces on the body components to thereby maintain the body components in a predetermined position relative to each other. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1 and further comprising the steps of: disengaging at least one robot from its associated tool arm; welding said vehicle body components together by welders carried by said at least one disengaged robot; reengaging said at least one disengaged robot with its associated tool arm; unclamping said tool arms from said docking stations; and removing said tool arms from said docking stations by said robots. 