A mechanism provides compliance between a tool and a robotic arm and includes a base with a first face. The mechanism includes a post assembly with a thrust washer and a mounting post attached to the thrust washer. The thrust washer engages the first face to form a compliance joint that permits a compliance range of sliding translational motion along the first face. The mechanism comprises springs that slideably engage an outer rim surface of the post assembly and providing a compliance force resisting the sliding translational motion. A retainer is mounted to the base and compresses the thrust washer against the first face and limits rotational motion of the assembly out of a plane of the first face.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compliance mechanism comprising: a base member defining a first bearing surface; a compliance member defining a second bearing surface extending substantially parallel to the first bearing surface during movement of the compliance member with respect to the base member associated with a lateral in-plane displacement of the compliance member; a roller bearing disposed between the base member and the compliance member to operably roll against both the first bearing surface and the second bearing surface during the lateral in-plane displacement of the compliance member; and a biasing arrangement, not contacting the roller bearing, urging the compliance member to remain at a nominal lateral position in opposition to forces that displace the compliance member, and urging the second bearing surface to remain substantially parallel to the first bearing surface in opposition to the forces that displace the compliance member. 2. The compliance mechanism of claim 1 wherein the biasing arrangement comprises a first resilient member imparting a lateral force to the compliance member. 3. The compliance mechanism of claim 2 wherein the first resilient member is connected to the bearing cage. 4. The compliance mechanism of claim 2 wherein the first resilient member comprises a leaf spring. 5. The compliance mechanism of claim 2 wherein the first resilient member comprises a plunger. 6. The compliance mechanism of claim 2 wherein the first resilient member comprises a coil spring. 7. The compliance mechanism of claim 2 wherein the biasing arrangement comprises a plurality of first resilient members imparting opposing lateral forces to the compliance member. 8. The compliance mechanism of claim 7 wherein magnitudes of two of the opposing lateral forces are different. 9. The compliance mechanism of claim 1 wherein the biasing arrangement comprises a second resilient member that urges the second bearing surface toward the roller bearing. 10. The compliance mechanism of claim 9 wherein the second resilient member comprises a spring washer. 11. The compliance mechanism of claim 1 wherein the biasing arrangement comprises: a first resilient member imparting a lateral force to the compliance member, and a second resilient member imparting a longitudinal force that urges the second bearing surface toward the roller bearing, wherein magnitudes of the lateral and longitudinal forces are different. 12. The compliance mechanism of claim 1 wherein the base member defines two first bearing surfaces and the compliance member defines two second bearing surfaces, and wherein a first roller bearing operably rolls against both of one set of first and second bearing surfaces and a second roller bearing operably rolls against both of the other set of first and second bearing surfaces during the lateral in-plane displacement of the compliance member. 13. A method for connecting a first article to a second article, comprising: obtaining a compliance mechanism comprising: a base member defining a first bearing surface; a compliance member defining a second bearing surface extending substantially parallel to the first bearing surface during movement of the compliance member with respect to the base member associated with a lateral in-plane displacement of the compliance member; a roller bearing disposed between the base member and the compliance member to operably roll against both the first bearing surface and the second bearing surface during the lateral in-plane displacement of the compliance member; and a biasing arrangement, not contacting the roller bearing, urging the compliance member to remain at a nominal lateral position in opposition to forces that displace the compliance member, and urging the second bearing surface to remain substantially parallel to the first bearing surface in opposition to the forces that displace the compliance member; connecting the base to one of the first and second articles; and connecting the compliance member to the other of the first and second articles, wherein the compliance member is displaceable with respect to the base member in order to compensate for a misalignment between the first and second articles. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the obtaining step is characterized by the biasing arrangement having a first resilient member that imparts a lateral force to the compliance member. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the obtaining step is characterized by the biasing arrangement having a plurality of first resilient members that impart opposing lateral forces to the compliance member. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein the obtaining step is characterized by the biasing arrangement having a second resilient member that urges the second bearing surface toward the roller bearing. 17. The method of claim 13 wherein the obtaining step is characterized by the biasing arrangement having a first resilient member imparting a lateral force to the compliance member, and a second resilient member imparting a longitudinal force that urges the second bearing surface toward the roller bearing, wherein magnitudes of the lateral and longitudinal forces are different. 18. The method of claim 13 wherein the obtaining step is characterized by the base member defining two first bearing surfaces and the compliance member defining two second bearing surfaces, and wherein a first roller bearing operably rolls against both of one set of first and second bearing surfaces and a second roller bearing operably rolls against both of the other set of first and second bearing surfaces during the lateral in-plane displacement of the compliance member. 19. A compliance mechanism comprising: a base member defining a first bearing surface; a compliance member defining a second bearing surface extending substantially parallel to the first bearing surface during movement of the compliance member with respect to the base member associated with a lateral in-plane displacement of the compliance member; a bearing cage attached to the compliance member and supporting a plurality of spatially separated roller bearings disposed between the base member and the compliance member to operably roll against both the first bearing surface and the second bearing surface during the lateral in-plane displacement of the compliance member; and a biasing arrangement urging the compliance member to remain at a nominal lateral position in opposition to forces that displace the compliance member, and urging the second bearing surface to remain substantially parallel to the first bearing surface in opposition to the forces that displace the compliance member. 20. A compliance mechanism comprising: a base member defining a first bearing surface; a compliance member defining a second bearing surface extending substantially parallel to the first bearing surface during movement of the compliance member with respect to the base member associated with a lateral in-plane displacement of the compliance member; a bearing cage attached to the compliance member, the bearing cage supporting a plurality of spatially separated roller bearings disposed between the base member and the compliance member to operably roll against both the first bearing surface and the second bearing surface during the lateral in-plane displacement of the compliance member; and a biasing arrangement having a first resilient member connected to the bearing cage and imparting a lateral force urging the compliance member to remain at a nominal lateral position in opposition to forces that displace the compliance member, and the biasing arrangement further urging the second bearing surface to remain substantially parallel to the first bearing surface in opposition to the forces that displace the compliance member. 