A wafer processing system has a moveable drain assembly having multiple drain rings. The drain rings may be spaced apart sufficiently to allow a process fluid applicator to move between them. Each drain ring provides a separate drain path, optionally in a separate recirculation loop carrying a single process fluid. The drain rings may be sequentially moved into position to collect process fluid moving off of the workpiece. As a result, process fluids may be more uniformly applied and used process fluids can be separately removed, collected, and either recycled or processed for disposal. Mixing of used process fluids is largely avoided. A lower process fluid outlet allows for processing the back side of the wafer as well, without flipping the wafer.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Apparatus comprising: a rotor rotatable about a rotation axis; a swing arm having at least one fluid outlet, with the arm moveable to apply a fluid onto a workpiece on the rotor; a first drain ring generally coaxial with the rotation axis; a second drain ring generally coaxial with the rotation axis; a drain ring lifter for vertically moving the first and second drain rings; and with the swing arm movable horizontally from a first position outside of the drain rings, to a second position in between the first and second drain rings. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 with the first drain ring having a curved upper wall and a generally flat lower wall declining at 5-45 degree angle away from the rotation axis. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a swing arm actuator for moving the swing arm in a back and forth movement. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an air pipe extending up through the rotor. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of workpiece supports each pivotably attached to the rotor, for supporting a workpiece on the rotor, while the rotor rotates with the workpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 with the first drain ring attached to the drain ring lifter and with the second drain ring attached to the drain ring lifter, and with the first drain ring positioned by a fixed distance above the second drain ring. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a shroud surrounding the drain rings. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a third drain ring generally coaxial with the second drain ring, and with the swing arm also moveable in between the second and third drain rings. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 with the drain ring lifter comprising first and second lift assemblies positioned on substantially opposite sides of the rotor. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a back side fluid outlet in the rotor. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 with the rotor and the swing arm vertically spaced apart by a fixed dimension. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 with the rotor supported at a fixed dimension above a base plate, and with the drain rings moveable together, vertically, relative to the base plate, to align the first or second drain ring with a workpiece on the rotor. 13. A workpiece processor, comprising: a rotor rotatable about a rotation axis; a fluid outlet in the rotor; a fluid source connecting to the fluid outlet in the rotor; a motor attached to the rotor and positioned on a first side of the rotor; workpiece supports on the rotor adapted to support a workpiece; a swing arm having at least one fluid outlet, with the arm moveable to a position over the rotor; a drain ring assembly including first and second drain rings generally coaxial with the rotation axis and spaced apart in fixed positions relative to each other in a direction generally parallel to the rotation axis by a dimension sufficient to allow the swing arm to move between them, and with the swing arm moveable horizontally from a first position outside of the drain ring assembly, to a second position in between the first and second drain rings, within the drain ring assembly; and at least one drain ring assembly lifter attached to the first and second drain rings for moving the first and second drain rings in a direction generally parallel to the rotation axis. 14. The workpiece processor of claim 13 with the drain ring assembly moveable via the drain ring assembly lifter from a first position where the first drain ring is substantially aligned in the same plane as a workpiece on the rotor, to a second position wherein the first drain ring is above the workpiece, and with the swing arm moveable between the first and second drain rings when the drain ring assembly is in the second position. 15. A workpiece processor, comprising: a rotor; workpiece supports on the rotor defining a workpiece holding position; at least one fluid outlet in the rotor; a swing arm above the rotor; at least one fluid outlet on or in the swing arm; a drain ring assembly positioned around the rotor and including first and second drain rings generally coaxial with the rotor, and vertically spaced apart from each other by a fixed distance; lifting means for vertically moving the drain ring assembly relative to the rotor; and with the swing arm movable horizontally from a first position outside of the drain ring assembly, to a second position in between the first and second drain rings, when the first drain ring is positioned above the workpiece holding position and second drain ring is positioned below the workpiece holding position. 16. The processor of claim 15 with the lifting means including a pair of linear actuators attached to the drain ring assembly. 