Process for evaluating the coke and/or bitumen yield and quality of a plurality of refinery feedstocks, by (i) providing a plurality of refinery feedstocks, (ii) placing a sample of each of the plurality of refinery feedstocks on a heating device, (iii) heating each sample under vacuum to a temperature in the range 300.degree. C. to 420.degree. C. using the respective heating device while measuring the weight loss of the sample, and then (iv) (a) measuring the bitumen quality of the vacuum residues formed, and/or (b)(i) heating the vacuum residues to a temperature in the range 450.degree. C. to 600.degree. C. using the heating device, while measuring the weight loss of the sample, and then (ii) measuring the coke quality of the products formed.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A process for evaluating the coke and/or bitumen yield and quality of a plurality of refinery feedstocks, said process comprising: (i) providing a plurality of refinery feedstocks, (ii) placing a sample of each of said plurality of refinery feedstocks on a heating device, (iii) heating each sample under vacuum to a temperature in the range 300.degree. C. to 420.degree. C. using the respective heating device whilst measuring the weight loss of the sample, and then (iv)(a) measuring the bitumen quality of the vacuum residues formed, and/or (b)(i) heating the vacuum residues to a temperature in the range 450.degree. C. to 600.degree. C. using the heating device, whilst measuring the weight loss of the sample, and then (ii) measuring the coke quality of the products formed. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the refinery feedstocks are selected from the group consisting of crude oils, synthetic crudes, biocomponents, visbreaker tars, solvent deasphalted pitches, atmospheric residues, vacuum residues, fuel oils, FCC decant oils and blends of one or more of said components. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the heating devices are optical devices or microoscillators. 4. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the asphaltene stability of the vacuum residue formed in step (iii) is measured prior to subsequent heating and measurement of the coke quality in step (iv)(b). 5. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plurality of refinery feedstocks comprises at least 20 refinery feedstocks. 6. A process as claimed in claim 5 wherein the plurality of refinery feedstocks comprises at least 50 refinery feedstocks. 7. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the vacuum residue formed in step (iii) is blended with one or more other residues prior to step (iv). 8. A process as claimed in claim 7, wherein the vacuum residue formed in step (iii) is blended with a vacuum residue prior to determination of the bitumen quality in step (iv)(a). 9. A process as claimed in claim 7, wherein the vacuum residue formed in step (iii) is blended with a vacuum residue, a solvent deasphalted pitch or a visbroken tar, prior to subsequent heating and measurement of the coke quality in step (iv)(b). 10. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the gaseous and/or liquid components evolved during the coking in step (iv)(b)(ii) are themselves analysed. 11. A process as claimed in claim 10 wherein all or a portion of the liquid components evolved during coking may be separated, recycled and added to the vacuum residue produced in step (iii). 