A method and an installation for coating, especially painting, articles. The method is characterized by filling nonabrasive powder containers with the powdery coating material and transporting the containers to the vicinity of an application device. The powder containers are opened only in the vicinity of the application device and the powder is removed and then released by the application device onto the article to be coated. The avoids substantial dirtying of the transport paths that the powder containers are transported on, thereby eliminating the need for cleaning when the coating material is changed, especially when the coating powder is changed.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of coating articles, comprising the steps of: conveying a coating material to an applying device; and, applying the coating material in a powder form; wherein portions of the coating material are conveyed, at least over part of a route of the coating material to the applying device, in a plurality of containers that are formed of a material which is abrasion proof in relation to the coating material, from which the pulverulent coating material is released only adjacent to said applying device. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the quantity of coating material needed by an applying device for a complete coating operation for a specific article is weighed out and conveyed, as a whole, in one of the plurality of powder containers. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein one of the plurality of powder containers includes a holding capacity of approximately 2000 g of coating material. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the plurality of powder containers is fed back to a storage container after being emptied of the coating material. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein at least one of the plurality of powder containers is cleaned after being emptied of the coating material. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein portions of coating material which are small, compared to the total quantity of coating material which is needed for a coating operation, are conveyed in a plurality of correspondingly small powder containers. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the total quantity of coating material supplied to the applying device is determined by counting the plurality of powder containers conveyed. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the plurality of powder containers includes a holding capacity for coating material approximately less than 50 g. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the plurality of powder containers is comprised of plastic or metal. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the plurality of powder containers is comprised of a clear-lacquer material. 11. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the plurality of powder containers is discarded after being emptied. 12. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one plurality of the powder containers is crushed in order to empty it, and is supplied to the applying device together with the coating material. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of powder containers are conveyed through a supply line by a pushing medium after fashioning of a pneumatic tube conveyor or a pipe-clearing device. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the pushing medium is compressed air. 15. A system for coating articles, the system comprising: an applying device which releases the coating material in powder form; a supplying device which supplies the coating material to the applying device; the supplying device being configured in such a way that it is able to transport the pulverulent coating material in a plurality of powder containers that are formed of a material which is abrasion proof in relation to the coating material, wherein at that end of the supplying device, which faces towards the applying device, an opening device is provided which is able to open each of the plurality of the powder containers and remove the pulverulent coating material from within and pass it on to the applying device. 16. The system of claim 15, further comprising a loading device at which the pulverulent coating material is poured into at least one of the plurality of powder containers. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the loading device is constructed in such a way that the plurality of powder containers can be moved, by means of the loading device, from an inlet station for empty powder containers to a filling station, and from there to an outlet station for powder containers which have been filled. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the loading device includes a number of filling stations for different types of coating materials. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the inlet station and the outlet station of the loading device are configured as sluices at which delivery of powder containers from and to, respectively, a line operating after fashioning of a pneumatic tube conveyor can take place. 20. The system of claim 17, wherein the loading device includes an opening position at which empty powder containers can be opened. 21. The system of claim 17, wherein the loading device includes a cleaning position at which powder containers which have been opened can be cleaned. 22. The system of claim 17, wherein the loading device has a closing position at which powder containers that have been filled can be occluded. 23. The system of claim 22, further comprising occluding balls for occluding powder containers. 24. The system of claim 17, wherein the loading device is constructed as a loading carousel. 25. The system of claim 15, further comprising a removing device which is constructed in such a way that the plurality of powder containers can be moved, by means of the remaining device, from an inlet station for powder containers which have been filled to an opening station at which an opening device can be disposed or is disposed, to an outlet station for empty powder containers. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the removing device has at least one stand-by station at which a filled powder container can be temporarily parked. 27. The system of claim 25, wherein the inlet station and the outlet station of the removing device are configured as sluices at which delivery of plurality of powder containers from and to, respectively, a line of the pneumatic tube conveyor type can take place. 28. The system of claim 25, wherein the removing device is constructed as a removing carousel. 29. The system of claim 15, further comprising weighing device by means of which a quantity of coating material needed by an applying device for a complete coating operation for a specific article can be weighed out. 30. The system of claim 15, wherein one of the plurality of powder containers contains the total quantity of coating material which is needed by an applying device for a complete coating operation for a specific article. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the one of the plurality of powder containers has a holding capacity of about 2000 g. 32. The system of claim 15, wherein each of the plurality of powder containers is so small that it holds only a fraction of the total quantity of coating material required by an applying device for a complete coating operation for a specific article. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein each of the plurality of powder containers includes a capacity of less than 50 g. 34. The system of claim 32, further comprising a counting device by means of which the plurality of powder containers conveyed in the direction of the applying device can be counted. 35. The system of claim 15, wherein at least one of the plurality of the powder containers is comprised of plastic or metal. 36. The system of claim 15, wherein at least one of the plurality of powder containers is comprised of clear-lacquer material. 37. The system of claim 15, further comprising a separating-body-introducing device by means of which at least one separating body, which has at least one property which is remotely detectable, can be inserted between the plurality of powder containers having different contents. 38. The system of claim 15, wherein the opening device and the applying device are combined to form one structural unit. 39. The system of claim 15, wherein the opening device includes a grinding mechanism. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein the applying device is a rotation atomiser and the grinding mechanism and rotation atomiser can be driven by the same motor. 