Methods and systems for detecting wafer shift/slide in a semiconductor process chamber have been disclosed. The vibration amplitude is measured in terms of acceleration because an increase in vibrational acceleration correlates with an increase of displacement of a wafer. The vibration of a chamber is measured. External vibratory forces acting on the chamber may be transmitted to the wafer inside the chamber. The methods/systems determine if there is a net resultant force that may cause an unconstrained wafer to move from its original position in a chamber by measuring the relative chamber vibrations in three orthogonal directions. A tri-axial or three uni-axial accelerometers are mounted on a preferably exterior wall of the chamber to measure its vibration amplitude. The signal obtained as a function of time is then compared against a predetermined alarm amplitude to provide notification for corrective action.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method to detect real-time wafer shift/slide in a semiconductor process chamber comprising steps of (1) providing a semiconductor process chamber, an accelerometer mounted on a wall of the chamber, a signal conditioner, an analog-to-digital converter, and a digital signal processor; (2) measuring the acceleration of the chamber in three orthogonal directions, correlating to vibration amplitudes; (3) comparing vibration measured as function of time against a pre-determined alarm amplitude; and (4) initiating notification for corrective action if vibration measured exceeds alarm threshold. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein additionally an anti-aliasing filter is provided. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said accelerometer is mounted on an exterior wall of the chamber. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said accelerometer is mounted on an interior wall of the chamber. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said accelerometer is a tri-axial accelerometer. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein three uni-axial accelerometers are used to measure the acceleration of the chamber in three orthogonal directions. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein a combination of a dual-axial accelerometer with a uni-axial accelerometer is used to measure the acceleration of the chamber in three orthogonal directions. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein strain gauge devices are used to measure the acceleration of the chamber in three orthogonal directions. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein laser vibrometers are used to measure the acceleration of the chamber in three orthogonal directions. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said vibration measurements are performed continuously. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said vibration measurements are prompted to start when the chamber is in use via an external trigger signal. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein vibration measurement data are displayed using an orbit plot. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein vibration measurement data are displayed using a time plot. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said notification is an audible alarm. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein said notification is a visible alarm. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein said notification comprises a pre-alarm initiated at a lower alarm threshold. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said pre-alarm is initiated at 70% of the alarm threshold. 18. A system to detect real-time wafer shift/slide in a semiconductor process chamber by measuring acceleration of the chamber representing vibration measurement, comprising: means to measure acceleration in three orthogonal directions, wherein said means to measure acceleration is mounted on a wall of said process chamber; a signal conditioner, amplifying the signals of the means to measure acceleration, wherein its output is the input of an anti-aliasing filter; an anti-aliasing filter attenuating high frequency signals from said signal conditioner, wherein its output is the input of an Analog-to-Digital converter; said analog-to-digital converter, wherein its output is the input of a dynamic spectrum analyzer said dynamic spectrum analyzer receiving measurement signals from said analog-to-digital converter comprising: said digital signal processor, performing all required calculations, receiving measurement signals from said analog-to-digital converter; a program and data memory, being connected to said digital signal processor; a digital-to-analog converter being connected to said digital signal processor; a watchdog device, being connected to said digital signal processor, monitoring an alarm function of the system; a relay being triggered by said digital signal processor; and a communication port being connected to said digital signal processor; a process controller, being connected to said digital signal processor an alarm device, being initiated by said relay; a visual display unit; and an unit providing keyboard inputs to said digital signal processor. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein said means to measure acceleration is mounted on an exterior wall of the chamber. 20. The system of claim 18 wherein said means to measure acceleration is mounted on an interior wall of the chamber. 21. The system of claim 18 wherein said means to measure acceleration is a tri-axial accelerometer. 22. The system of claim 18 wherein said means to measure acceleration are three uni-axial accelerometers. 23. The system of claim 18 wherein said means to measure acceleration is a combination of a dual-axial accelerometer with a uni-axial accelerometer. 24. The system of claim 18 wherein said means to measure acceleration are strain gauge devices. 25. The system of claim 18 wherein said means to measure acceleration are laser vibrometers. 26. The system of claim 18 wherein said anti-aliasing filter is a low-pass filter. 27. The system of claim 18 wherein a trigger signal provided as input of the digital signal processor is starting the vibration measurement. 28. The system of claim 18 wherein said communication port is a serial communication port. 29. The system of claim 28 wherein said serial communication port is a RS232 port. 30. The system of claim 18 wherein said alarm device provides a visual alarm. 31. The system of claim 18 wherein said alarm device provides an audible alarm. 32. The system of claim 18 wherein said visual display is capable to display an orbit plot. 33. The system of claim 18 wherein said visual display is capable to display a time plot. 34. The system of claim 18 wherein a personal computer is configured to perform the task of said dynamic spectrum analyzer. 35. The system of claim 18 wherein a personal computer is configured to perform the task of said process controller. 36. The system of claim 18 wherein said signal conditioner is built in said dynamic spectrum analyzer. 37. The system of claim 18 wherein the tasks of said digital signal processor include filtering, computation of time and frequency measurements, and management of multiple channel signal measurements. 38. The system of claim 18 wherein said digital signal processor computes time data from two channels and data for plots of relative forces. 39. The system of claim 18 wherein said watchdog is a comparator which compares the measured data to a predefined limit and triggers said digital signal processor to initiate an alarm if the measured data exceeds a predefined limit. 40. The system of claim 18 wherein said watchdog is used to reset the system in the event of a fault condition. 