The present invention is a system for and method of providing an autonomously mobile air purifier and surface cleaner in combination with a source of air fragrance in a single device for home or office use. The autonomously mobile air and surface cleaner and fragrancing system includes an air purifier, a fragrancer, a floor cleaner, an input means, a power system, operational and auxiliary sensors, robotics that drive and steer the device, and a central controller operatively connected to each of the aforementioned items to control the operation of the device. The present invention also provides a method for the operation of the device using the air purifier, fragrancer, floor cleaner and robotics to clean a room, and for modifying the operation of the device in response to signals sent from the sensors or from the input means.
Claims We hereby claim: 1. A cleaning device comprising; a) an air purification system disposed within a housing; b) a surface cleaning system disposed within the housing; c) a movement mechanism disclosed within the housing and capable of moving the housing containing the air purification system and the surface cleaning system; d) a sensor system configured to monitor performance of at least one of the air purification system and the surface cleaning system; and e) a control system connected to and configured to control the operation of the air purification system, the surface cleaning system and the movement mechanisms in a generally autonomous fashion based on feedback received from the sensor system regarding performance of the at least one of the air purification system and the surface cleaning system, the control system configured to control operation of the other of the at least one of the air purification system and the surface cleaning system in response to the monitored performance of the at least one of the air purification system and the surface cleaning system. 2. The device of claim 1 further comprising a fragrance dispensing system disposed within the housing and operably connected to the air purification system and the control system. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the control system is operatively connected to a user interface. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein the user interface is disposed on an exterior of the housing. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein the control system is operatively connected to the sensor system and the sensor system includes a plurality of sensors. 6. The device of claim 5 wherein the sensors are configured to detect conditions inside the housing. 7. The device of claim 5 wherein the sensors are configured to detect conditions outside the housing. 8. The device of claim 5 wherein the control system is configured to vary the operation of the air purification system, and the surface cleaning system, and the movement system in response to signals sent from the plurality of sensors associated with another of the air purification system, the surface cleaning system, and the movement system. 9. A method for cleaning an area, the method comprising the steps of: a) providing a cleaning device including an air purification system disposed within a housing, a surface cleaning system disposed within the housing, a movement system disposed within the housing and capable of moving the housing containing the air purification system and the surface cleaning system around the area, and a control system connected to and configured to control the operation of the air purification system, the surface cleaning system and the movement system in a generally autonomous manner; b) selecting a mode of operation for the device; c) operating the device in the selected mode of operation; d) automatically monitoring performance of at least one of the air purification system and the surface cleaning system; and e) automatically altering operation of the other of the least one of the air purification system and the surface cleaning system in response to monitored performance of the at least one of the air purification system and the surface cleaning system. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of selecting the mode of operation for the device comprises inputting the mode of operation into the control system. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of inputting the desired mode of operation comprises employing a user interface operatively connected to the control system. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of selecting the mode of operation comprises selecting an air purification mode of operation. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of varying the air purification mode of operation in response to signals sent from sensors operatively connected to the control system. 14. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of selecting an air fragrancing mode of operation subsequent to selecting the air purification mode of operation. 15. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of varying the air purification mode of operation in response to signals sent from a user interface operatively connected to the control system. 16. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of selecting the mode of operation comprises selecting a surface cleaning mode of operation. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of varying or stopping the surface cleaning mode of operation in response to signals sent from sensors operatively connected to the control system. 18. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of varying the surface cleaning mode of operation in response to signals sent from the user interface operatively connected to the control system. 19. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of selecting a mode of operation comprises selecting a movement mode of operation. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising the step of A method for cleaning an area, the method comprising the steps of: a) providing: a cleaning device including a housing containing at least one of: an air purification system, a surface cleaning system, and a fragrancing system; a movement system disposed within the housing and capable of moving the housing around an area; and a control system connected to and configured to control the movement system in a generally autonomous manner; b) selecting a mode of operation for the device; c) operating the device in the selected mode of operation; d) automatically monitoring performance of at least one of the air purification system and the surface cleaning system; and e) varying or stopping the movement mode of operation in response to signals sent from sensors operatively connected to the control system. 