A new apparatus for processing substrates is disclosed. A multi-level load lock chamber having four environmentally isolated chambers interfaces with a transfer chamber that has a robotic assembly. The robotic assembly has two arms that each can move horizontally as the robotic assembly rotates about its axis. The arms can reach into the isolated chambers of the load lock to receive substrates from the bottom isolated chambers, transport the substrates to process chambers, and then place the substrates in the upper chambers. The isolated chambers in the load lock chamber may have a pivotably attached lid that may be opened to access the inside of the isolated chambers.
Claims We claim: 1. A load lock chamber, comprising: a unitary chamber body; a first chamber and a second chamber formed in the chamber body in a laterally spaced relation; a third chamber and a fourth chamber formed in the chamber body in a laterally spaced relation and at an elevation below the first and second chambers, the first, second, third and fourth chambers being environmentally isolated from each other and each having a chamber opening; an upper single slit valve door for sealing both chamber openings of the first and second chambers; a lower single slit valve door for sealing both chamber openings of the third and fourth chambers; and a substrate support respectively located in each chamber. 2. The chamber of claim 1, further comprising: an actuator coupled to the upper slit valve door, wherein the actuator moves the upper slit valve door between a lowered closed position and a raised open position; and a second actuator coupled to the lower slit valve door, wherein the second actuator moves the lower slit valve door between a raised closed position and a lowered open position. 3. The chamber of claim 1, wherein each substrate support further comprises: a heater element. 4. The chamber of claim 1 further comprising: a first lid coupled to the chamber body and selectively sealing the first chamber; and a second lid coupled to the chamber body and selectively sealing the second chamber. 5. The chamber of claim 4, further comprising: a third lid coupled to the chamber body and selectively sealing the third chamber; and a fourth lid coupled to the chamber body and selectively sealing the fourth chamber. 6. The chamber of claim 5, wherein the third and fourth lids pivot on a hinge to access the third and fourth chambers from the bottom. 7. The chamber of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of lift pins disposed in the third and fourth chambers, wherein the lift pins are movable between a lowered position and a raised position; and a substrate lift hoop disposed in the first and second chambers; and wherein the substrate lift hoop in the first and second chambers are movable between a lowered position and a raised position. 8. An apparatus, comprising: a load lock chamber, wherein the load lock chamber comprises: a unitary lock body; a first chamber and a second chamber formed in the lock body in a laterally spaced relation; a third chamber and a fourth chamber formed in the lock body in a laterally spaced relation and at an elevation below the first and second chambers, the first, second, third and fourth chambers being environmentally isolated from each other and each having a chamber opening; an upper single slit valve door for sealing both chamber openings of the first and second chambers; a lower single slit valve door for sealing both chamber openings of the third and fourth chambers; and a substrate support respectively located in each chamber; a transfer chamber coupled to the lock body, wherein the transfer chamber comprises a transfer body having a central cavity; and a robotic assembly disposed within the central cavity. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising: a first lid coupled to the lock body and selectively sealing the first chamber; and a second lid coupled to the lock body and selectively sealing the second chamber. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising: a plurality of lift pins disposed in the third and fourth chambers, wherein the lift pins are movable between a lowered position and a raised position; and a substrate lift hoop disposed in the first and second chambers; and wherein the substrate lift hoops in the first and second chambers are movable between a lowered position and a raised position. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the transfer chamber further comprises: a load lock chamber interface having two openings formed through the transfer body to the central cavity; and two pairs of slit valve doors coupled to the body, wherein each pair of slit valve doors are disposed in a respective opening of the load lock chamber interface and each slit valve door selectively seals one of the first, second, third and fourth chambers. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of slit valve door actuators, wherein each actuator is coupled to one of the slit valve doors and the load lock body, and wherein two actuators are located at each opening of the load lock chamber interface. 13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the robotic assembly is rotatable about an axis, the robotic assembly comprising: at least one arm, the at least one arm comprises two substrate receiving blades, each substrate receiving blade capable of receiving one substrate. 14. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a lid coupled to the transfer body and covering the central cavity, wherein the lid is pivotably attached to the transfer chamber. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein at least a portion of the lid is clear. 16. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the robotic assembly comprises two arms. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the two arms lie in separate planes and are each capable of independent lateral movement. 18. An apparatus, comprising: a load lock chamber having a chamber body, a first chamber and a second chamber formed in the chamber body in a laterally spaced relation, the first and second chambers being environmentally isolated from each other and each having a chamber opening, and a single slit valve door for sealing both chamber openings; a transfer chamber coupled with the load lock chamber; and a plurality of processing chambers coupled with the transfer chamber, at least two of the plurality of processing chambers vertically stacked one on top of the other and sharing the same footprint within the apparatus. 