The present invention is a novel device for climbing inside corners, outside corners, and a variety of surfaces. The technology presented herein relies on high friction materials, suction devices, adhesive materials, pneumatic devices, etc. Specifically, embodiments of the present invention are designed to clamp onto inside or outside corners such that the devices weight, and an optional load, can be supported. Further embodiments allow the device to climb up, down, and across corners. Moreover, embodiments that can scale flat, rough, or jagged surfaces are also disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for securely engaging a surface through the application of friction comprising: a first friction pad comprising a first contact surface and a first backing structure, wherein said first backing structure stabilizes said first contact surface, and wherein said first friction pad is coupled to a first pivot arm; a second friction pad comprising a second contact surface and a second backing structure, wherein said second backing structure stabilizes said second contact surface, and wherein said second contact surface comprises said high friction grip material, and wherein said second friction pad is connected to a second pivot arm; an outer member comprising a first cavity, a first open end, and a second closed end coupled to said first friction pad through said first pivot arm; an inner member comprising a second cavity, a third open end, and a fourth closed end coupled to said second friction pad through said second pivot arm, wherein said inner member partially resides within said first cavity of said outer member to provide a first clamping force, wherein said inner member and said outer member each reside on a common longitudinal axis, and wherein said first friction pad is diametrically opposed to said second friction pad and each of said first friction pad and said second friction pad reside on said common longitudinal axis; a control device for activating said outer member and said inner member to provide said first clamping force; and means for retracting said outer member towards said inner member when said control device is not activated, wherein said control device comprises a plurality of first and second pulley assemblies coupled with a pulley line for controlling movement of said outer and inner members. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first contact surface is attached to said first backing structure in an airtight manner, and further wherein said second contact surface is attached to said second backing surface in an airtight manner. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each of said first and said second contact surface comprises a smooth surface. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each of said first and said second contact surface comprises surface structures selected from the group consisting of ribs, strips, bumps, and ridges. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each of said first and said second friction pad is hollow. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each of said first and said second friction pad is in the shape of a boomerang. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads is convex. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads is concave. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads is pliable. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads is filled with a substance selected from the group consisting of gases, liquids, foams, gels, structured components, suspension components, and phase change materials. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads comprises one or more airtight components. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads has a leading edge and trailing edge. 13. An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said leading edge is longer than said trailing edge. 14. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads comprises a series of concentric rings. 15. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads comprises a material selected from the group consisting of polyester composite PVC compound, a thermoplastic elastomer, rubber and cyanoacrilate. 16. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads comprises a lubricator. 17. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads comprises one or more suction cups. 18. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads comprises means for providing suction. 19. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads comprises a material having a coefficient of friction approximately equal to one. 20. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads comprises a material having a coefficient of friction greater than one. 21. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein an effective center of rotation of said first or second pivot arm is below said at least one friction pad. 22. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein circular rotation of said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads is permitted. 23. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein circular rotation of said at least one friction pad of said first and said second friction pads is prohibited. 