A composite heating system for use in a wallpaper printing system, the wallpaper printing system passing a media web along a media path from a media cartridge, past a printhead, to a wallpaper exit region, the composite heating system comprising: a first heating system, disposed between the media cartridge and the printhead, comprising a pre-heater; and, a second heating system, disposed between the printhead and the wallpaper exit region, comprising: an heating element provided within a first chamber positioned on one side of the media web; at least one fan positioned to force air past the heating element; the first chamber adapted to direct the heated air through an opening into a second heating chamber positioned on the other side of the media web; and, the second heating chamber receiving subsequent portions of the printed media web passed into the second heating chamber through the opening.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composite heating system for use in a printing system, the printing system feeding a media web along a media path from a media cartridge, past a stationary printhead, to a printed media web exit region, the composite heating system comprising: a first heating system, disposed between the media cartridge and the printhead, comprising a pre-heater; and, a second heating system, disposed between the printhead and the printed media web exit region, comprising: an heating element provided within a first chamber positioned on one side of the media web; at least one fan positioned to force air past the heating element; the first chamber adapted to direct the heated air through an opening into a second heating chamber positioned on the other side of the media web; and, the media web being driven along the media path so that the printed media web extends from the media path as a loop which hangs into the second heating chamber through the opening from opposite sides of the opening. 2. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the pre-heater is a platen. 3. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the pre-heater is a substantially flat plate. 4. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the media web is passed across the pre-heater by pilot guides. 5. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first chamber tapers towards the opening. 6. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein each fan is associated with a circulation duct. 7. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein a rotatable door covers the opening. 8. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the rotatable door is operated by a winding motor. 9. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the second chamber tapers towards the opening. 10. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one circulation duct extends from a base region of the second chamber to one side of the at least one fan. 11. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one fan is provided external to the first chamber. 12. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one fan is substantially encased by an intake duct. 13. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the intake duct receives at least a portion of air-flow from the at least one circulation duct. 14. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one circulation duct vents at least part of the air-flow out of the printing system. 15. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printing system prints a wallpaper pattern on to a media web to produce wallpaper. 16. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printing system further comprises: first drive means to drive the media web past the printhead; at least one processor to receive and process a selected wallpaper pattern and to control printing of the selected print pattern, by the printhead, on the media web to produce the printed media web; and, second drive means to drive the printed media web onto a roller to be wound by a winding means. 17. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printing system uses a cabinet comprising: a support adapted to hold the at least one media cartridge, containing the media web, and to hold the printhead; at least one guide to direct the media web past the printhead; a further support adapted to hold at least one ink reservoir in fluid communication with the printhead; at least one module adapted to hold at least one processor; a user interface to forward user instructions to the at least one processor; a drying compartment to dry printed media web; and a receiving stage to receive printed media web onto a roller. 18. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, for use in a method of producing on-demand printed media web for sale to a consumer, the method including the steps of: providing the printing system; the printing system further comprises: at least one processor to control printing by the printhead of a print pattern on the blank media web; an input device in communication with the at least one processor; and, a slitter module to cut the media web to a selected width; wherein the printhead extends at least the width of the media web; receiving, from the consumer via the input device, data indicating the consumer selected print pattern and width; printing the selected print pattern on the blank media web; cutting the printed media web according to the consumer selected width; and, charging the consumer. 19. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, for use in a drying system for use in the printing system, the drying system comprising: a heating element provided within a first chamber; at least one fan positioned to force air past the heating element; the first chamber adapted to direct the heated air through an opening into a second drying chamber; the second drying chamber receiving subsequent portions of the printed media web passed into the second drying chamber through the opening; and, at least one circulation duct provided to transfer at least a portion of the heated air from the second drying chamber to near the at least one fan. 20. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, for use in a method of drying a printed media web in a printing system, the method including the steps of: passing the media web along the media path from the media cartridge, past the printhead, and over the opening; using at least one fan to force air past an heating element provided within the first chamber located on one side of the opening, the first chamber adapted to direct the heated air through the opening into the second drying chamber located on the other side of the opening; and, driving the printed media web along the media path such that the printed media web extends from the media path, via the opening, into the second drying chamber which receives subsequent portions of the printed media web as the media web is driven along the media path. 21. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, for use with a container for receiving printed media web from the printing system, the printing system further comprising a winding area adapted to receive the container, the container comprising: a casing able to be closed to envelope the printed media web; a core about which printed media web is wound; two support members that each associate with opposite distal ends of the core, the support members bearing the load of the printed wallpaper against at least one interior surface of the casing; and, at least one of the support members including a hub which protrudes through an opening in an end of the casing, the hub adapted to engage with a drive spindle provided in the winding area of the printing system, the drive spindle rotating the hub which results in rotation of the core and consequent winding of the printed media web about the core. 22. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the media web cartridge for storing the media web is introduced into the printing system and the printing system further comprises a region to receive the media web cartridge and feed the media web past the printhead, the printhead being at least as wide as the width of the media web, the media web cartridge comprising: a casing which envelopes the media web; a fixed shaft about which the media web is wound and is free to rotate; two support members that each hold an opposite end of the shaft, the support members adapted to be supported by the casing and to prevent rotation of the shaft relative to the casing; at least two feed rollers to draw the media web from about the shaft and force the media web through an exit region of the casing; and, at least one of the feed rollers including a coupling which protrudes through an opening in an end of the casing and is adapted to engage with a drive spindle provided in the printing system, the drive spindle adapted to rotate the at least one feed roller. 23. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printing system produces printed media web, the printed media web comprising: the media web; and, a print pattern printed on the media web by the printing system; whereby, the print pattern is selected by a consumer using an input device of the printing system, and the media web width is selected by a consumer using the input device; and, whereby, the printing system for producing the printed media web further comprises: at least one processor to control printing by the printhead of the print pattern on the media web; the input device in communication with at least one processor; and, a slitter device to cut the printed media web to the selected width. 24. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead is a printhead assembly, the printhead assembly comprising: a casing; a printhead module, the printhead module comprised of a plurality of printhead tiles arranged substantially along the length of the printhead module; a fluid channel member held within the casing adjacent the printhead module, the fluid channel member including a plurality of ducts, fluid within each of the ducts being in fluid communication with each of the printhead tiles; and, each printhead tile including a printhead integrated circuit formed to dispense fluid, a printed circuit board to facilitate communication with a processor controlling the printing, and fluid inlet ports to receive fluid from the fluid channel member. 25. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, for use in a method of printing media web, the method comprising the steps of: receiving input data from a user which identifies a user selected print pattern; processing data associated with the user selected print pattern to raster and compress the user selected print pattern; transmitting the compressed user selected print pattern data to a print engine controller; expanding and rendering the user selected print pattern in the print engine controller; extracting a continuous blank media web from the media cartridge; driving the blank media web past the printhead controlled by the print engine controller using drive means; and, printing the user selected print pattern using the printhead which extends at least the width of the media web. 26. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, for use with an ink fluid delivery system for the printhead, the ink fluid delivery system comprising: a plurality of ink reservoirs associated in fluid communication with a plurality of ink fluid supply tubes; at least one ink fluid delivery connector attached to the plurality of ink fluid supply tubes; an ink fluid supply channel member associated in fluid communication with the at least one ink fluid delivery connector, the ink fluid supply channel member containing a plurality of ducts, at least one duct associated with at least one ink reservoir; the ink fluid supply channel member provided with a series of groups of outlet ports dispersed along the length of the ink fluid supply channel member; and, a series of printhead tiles forming a printhead, each printhead tile provided with a group of inlet ports aligned with a group of the outlet ports. 27. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, adapted for use with a combined cutter and slitter module for the printing system, the combined cutter and slitter module comprising: at least two end plates positioned such that the media web is able to pass between them; at least two slitter rollers rotatably held between the at least two end plates, each of the slitter rollers provided with at least one cutting disk, each of the cutting disks located at different positions along the length of the at least two slitter rollers; a guide roller positioned to selectively engage with at least one cutting disk, the media web able to be passed between the guide roller and the at least one cutting disk; a drive motor to rotate the guide roller; a first actuating motor to selectively rotate the at least two slitter rollers and thereby selectively engage at least one cutting disk with the guide roller; a transverse cutter positioned along at least the width of the media web; and, a second actuating motor to force the transverse cutter against the media web. 28. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead is formed by a series of printhead tiles, each of the printhead tiles comprising: a printhead integrated circuit including an array of ink nozzles; a channel layer provided adjacent the printhead integrated circuit, the channel layer provided with a plurality of channel layer slots; an upper layer provided adjacent the channel layer, the upper layer provided with an array of upper layer holes on a first side, and an array of upper layer channels on a second side, at least some of the upper layer holes in fluid communication with at least some of the upper layer channels, and at least some of the upper layer holes aligned with a channel layer slot; a middle layer provided adjacent the upper layer, the middle layer provided with a plurality of middle layer holes, at least some of the middle layer holes aligned with at least some of the upper layer channels; and, a lower layer provided adjacent the middle layer, the lower layer provided with an array of inlet holes on a first side, and an array of lower layer channels on a second side, at least one of the inlet holes in fluid communication with at least one of the lower layer channels, and at least some of the middle layer holes aligned with a lower layer channel; whereby, the inlet holes receive different types or colors of ink, each type or color of ink separately transported to different nozzles of the printhead integrated circuit. 29. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead is a printhead assembly with a communications module for the printing system, the printhead assembly comprising: a casing; a printhead module; a fluid channel member positioned adjacent to the printhead module, the fluid channel member including a plurality of ducts that substantially span the length of the printhead module; a power supply connection port positioned at a distal end of the casing, the power supply port electrically connected to at least one busbar that substantially spans the length of the printhead module; a fluid delivery connection port positioned at a distal end of the casing, the fluid delivery port in fluid communication with the fluid channel member; and, a data connection port positioned at a distal end of the casing, the data port electrically connected to at least one printed circuit board positioned within the casing, the at least one printed circuit board further electrically connected to the printhead module. 30. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead further comprises: a micro-electro-mechanical printhead extending at least the width of the media web; drive means to drive the media web past the printhead; at least one processor to receive and process a selected print pattern and to control printing of the selected print pattern, by the printhead, on the media web; the printhead including of a plurality of printhead tiles arranged along the length of the printhead; a fluid channel member adjacent the printhead; each printhead tile including a series of micro-electro-mechanical nozzle arrangements, each nozzle arrangement in fluid communication with the fluid channel member; and, each nozzle arrangement comprising: a nozzle chamber for holding fluid; a lever arm for forcing at least part of the fluid from the nozzle chamber; an actuator beam for distorting the lever arm; and, at least one electrode for receiving an electrical current that heats and expands the actuator beam. 31. The composite heating system as claimed in claim 1, adapted for use in a mobile printer for producing printed media web, the printer comprising: a vehicle adapted to hold and transport the printer; input means for a consumer to select a print pattern to be printed on the media web; the at least one media cartridge containing the media web; the printhead extending at least the width of the media web; drive means to drive the media web past the printhead; and, at least one processor to receive and process the selected print pattern and to control printing of the selected print pattern. 