A method and apparatus for automatic positioning and/or orientation of an object. The method includes applying a substance or component to an object, or takes advantage of a substance or component already on or associated with an object. The substance or component has a characteristic that can be utilized to automatically attract the substance or component. That characteristic is used to position, move, and/or orient the object automatically, without requiring manual handling. The object can then be further processed or handled. In one embodiment, the substance or component is a magnetically active substance or component. The attraction can be actuated by a magnet.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automatic orientation of an object comprising: a. adding a substance or component to a pre-determined location on the object, the pre-determined location relating to a pre-determined orientation of the object, the substance or component having a characteristic that can be utilized to automatically attract the substance or component; and b. utilizing the characteristic to automatically position the object in the pre-determined orientation. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the substance or component comprises a magnetically active substance or component. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the magnetically active substance or component comprises iron-based paint or particles. 4. The method of claim 1 where the magnetically active substance or component is applied to the object to automatically orient the object relative to a reference position. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the reference position is correlated to a further operation relative to the object. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising applying steps a. and b. to at least a second object. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising automatically attracting each object serially. 8. The method of claim 6 further comprising automatically attracting the objects concurrently. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the positioning is used in a manufacturing or assembly process. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the object comprises one of a part, a seed, or a package. 11. An apparatus for automatic orientation of an object, said apparatus comprising: a. an attracting device configured to generate an attraction force to attract an object that includes or is adapted to include a substance or component positioned on a pre-determined location of the object and having a characteristic that is automatically attracted by the attraction force, the pre-determined location on the object related to a pre-determined orientation of the object; and b. a translating device adapted to move said object into proximity of the attracting device or vise versa; wherein said object can be automatically oriented in the pre-determined orientation relative to the attracting device. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the attracting device comprises a magnet adapted to generate a magnetic field which can attract a magnetically active substance or component. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the magnet is one of a permanent magnet or electromagnet. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the magnetically active substance or component comprises magnetically active paint or particles. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the magnetically active particles are held on the object by an adhesive. 16. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the object comprises one of a part, a seed, or a package. 17. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the translating device to move the object comprises a conveying system. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the conveying system comprises a conveyor belt with a plurality of attracting devices adapted to each attract an object. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the conveying system comprises a wheel with a plurality of attracting devices adapted to each attract an object. 20. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising a means to separate the object from the attracting device. 21. An apparatus for handling and automatic orientation of one or more objects, said apparatus comprising: a. a conveying mechanism including a plurality of attracting devices each adapted to generate an attraction force to attract and move, at least between first and second locations, one or more objects each of which includes or is adapted to include a substance or component positioned on a pre-determined location of the object and having a characteristic that is automatically attracted by the attraction force, the pre-determined location being relatively consistent with respect to each object and being related to a pre-determined orientation of each object, and b. a feed mechanism adapted to serially present said one or more objects to the conveying mechanism; wherein each of said one or more objects is automatically and relatively consistently positioned and oriented in the pre-determined orientation when moved by the conveying mechanism. 22. An apparatus for handling and automatic orientation of one or more objects, said apparatus comprising: a. a conveying mechanism including a plurality of attracting devices each adapted to generate an attraction force to attract one or more objects each of which includes or is adapted to include a substance or component positioned on a pre-determined location of the object and having a characteristic that is automatically attracted by the attraction force, the pre-determined location being relatively consistent with respect to each object and being related to a pre-determined orientation of each object, the plurality of attracting devices being further adapted to move said one or more objects at least between first and second locations; b. a feed mechanism adapted to serially present said one or more objects to the conveying mechanism; and c. an operation station adapted to perform a function on any or all of said one or more objects; wherein each of said one or more objects is automatically and relatively consistently positioned and oriented in the pre-determined orientation when moved by the conveying mechanism to the operation station. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the operation station comprises a tool, a cutting device, an assembly system, a packaging system, a robot, or an inspection system. 24. An apparatus for automatic orientation of one or more objects, said apparatus comprising: a. an orientation mechanism including a plurality of attracting devices each adapted to generate an attraction force to attract one or more objects each of which includes or is adapted to include a substance or component positioned on a pre-determined location of the object and having a characteristic that is automatically attracted by the attraction force, the pre-determined location being relatively consistent with respect to each object and being related to a pre-determined orientation of each object; wherein each of the said one or more objects is automatically, concurrently, and relatively consistently positioned and oriented in the pre-determined orientation when attracted to the orientation mechanism. 25. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the substance or component comprises a magnetically active substance or component and the attraction devices comprise magnets adapted to generate a magnetic attraction force. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the object comprises a corn kernel defining a crown and a tip cap opposite the crown, and wherein the substance or component is added to the crown of the corn kernel. 27. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the object comprises a corn kernel defining a crown and a tip cap opposite the crown, and wherein the substance or component is included or adapted to be included on the crown of the corn kernel. 28. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the one or more objects comprise one or more corn kernels each defining a crown and a tip cap opposite the crown, and wherein the substance or component is included or adapted to be included on the crown of each corn kernel. 29. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the one or more objects comprise one or more corn kernels each defining a crown and a tip cap opposite the crown, and wherein the substance or component is included or adapted to be included on the crown of each corn kernel. 30. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the one or more objects comprise one or more corn kernels each defining a crown and a tip cap opposite the crown, and wherein the substance or component is included or adapted to be included on the crown of each corn kernel. 