A system and method for processing substrates that achieves isothermal and uniform fluid flow processing conditions for a plurality of substrates. In one aspect, the invention is a system and method that utilizes matching the emissivity value of the surfaces of a process chamber that oppose exposed surfaces of the substrates with the emissivity value of the exposed surfaces to achieve isothermal conditions throughout a substrate stack. In another aspect, the invention is system and method of processing substrates in a process chamber that exhibits excellent fluid flow uniformity by eliminating cavities or geometrical irregularities in the process chamber profile due to substrate loading openings. In yet anther aspect, the invention is a system and method of processing substrates wherein the process chamber comprises a liner and a shell, the liner constructed of a highly thermally conductive material, such as carbon, and the shell is constructed of a non-porous material, such as stainless steel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for processing substrates comprising: a first housing forming a process chamber; a second housing forming a loading chamber; a gate opening in said second housing that forms a passageway for one silicon substrate into said loading chamber; a robot arm adapted to insert said one substrate into said loading chamber into a movable plate via said gate opening; said movable plate having means to support a plurality of substrates in a vertically stacked orientation; means to move said movable plate between a loading position where said means to support is located at least partially outside of said process chamber and a processing position where said means to support is located entirely within said process chamber, wherein when in said process position said movable plate closes said opening; a gas inlet port in said first housing; a substantially rectangular gas inlet manifold having a two-dimensional array of distribution holes, said gas inlet manifold positioned so as to cover the gas inlet port; a gas diffuser plate within said gas inlet manifold; a source of gas fluidly coupled with said gas inlet port comprising a source of alcohol vapor and a source of hydrofluoric acid gas; an exhaust port in said first housing; a substantially rectangular exhaust manifold having a two-dimensional array of exhaust holes, said exhaust manifold positioned so as to cover the exhaust port; a gas diffuser plate within said exhaust manifold; said inlet manifold and said exhaust manifold located at opposite sides of said first housing forming said process chamber; said first housing forming said process chamber having a substantially rectangular cross-sectional profile extending from said inlet manifold to said exhaust manifold when said movable plate is in the processing position; and an exhaust system operably coupled to said exhaust port. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a seal positioned between said movable plate and the first housing. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said seal comprises an O-ring. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said inlet manifold and said exhaust manifold comprise distribution holes organized in a radial pattern of increasing size. 5. The system of claim 1 further comprising a means for creating a reduced pressure atmosphere in said process chamber. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said means for creating said reduced pressure atmosphere is located on an exhaust system that is coupled to said exhaust port. 7. The system of claim 1 further including a plurality of substrates supported in a vertically stacked orientation in said process chamber by said means to support, said plurality of substrates comprising a first substrate having an exposed surface and a last substrate having an exposed surface, said exposed surfaces of said first and last substrates having an emissivity value; and said process chamber comprising surfaces that oppose said exposed surfaces of said first and last substrates when said plurality of substrates are supported in said stacked orientation within said process chamber, said opposing surfaces of said process chamber having an emissivity value that corresponds to said emissivity value of said exposed surfaces of said first and last substrates. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said emissivity value of said opposing surfaces is within a range of about 0.2 of said emissivity value of the exposed surfaces of said first and last substrates. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said substrates are silicon and said opposing surfaces are silicon carbide. 10. The system of claim 7 wherein said supporting means comprises a first substrate support plate and a second substrate support plate, said plurality of substrates being supported in said stacked orientation between said first and second substrate support plates, said opposing surfaces being surfaces of said first and second substrate support plates. 11. The system of claim 7 wherein said first housing comprises a liner constructed of a material which has high thermal conductance, said liner having inner surfaces that form said process chamber, said inner surfaces having an emissivity value that corresponds to said emissivity value of said exposed surfaces of said first and last substrates. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein said liner is constructed of a carbon based material. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein said carbon based material is selected from a group consisting of densified carbon, natural carbon, diamond, and graphite. 14. The system of claim 12 wherein said inner surfaces of said liner are silicon carbide. 15. The system of claim 11 wherein said first housing comprises a shell constructed of a nonporous material, said liner being interior of said shell. 16. The system of claim 13 wherein said liner comprises an inlet manifold and an exhaust manifold. 17. The system of claim 1, said second chamber having a common wall with said first housing, said opening extending through the common wall and forming a passageway from the loading chamber into the process chamber, said second housing having a gate opening that forms a passageway from ambient air into said loading chamber. 18. The system of claim 17 further comprising a gate valve operably coupled to said gate opening, wherein when said gate valve is closed, said process chamber and said loading chamber are hermetically sealed from said ambient air. 19. The system of claim 1 further comprising means to heat said process chamber. 20. The system of claim 1 wherein said supporting means can support at least 25 substrates. 21. The system of claim 1 further comprising said second chamber having a common wall with said first housing, the opening extending through said common wall and forming a passageway from said loading chamber into said process chamber, said second housing having a gate opening that forms a passageway from ambient air into said loading chamber; a gate valve operably coupled to the gate opening, wherein when said gate valve is closed, said process chamber and said loading chamber are hermetically sealed from said ambient air; a seal positioned between said movable plate and said common wall; an exhaust system operably coupled to said exhaust ports of the first housing and second housing; wherein said gas inlet port and exhaust port of the process chamber are located on opposite walls of said first housing; means for creating a reduced pressure atmosphere in the process chamber, said means being operably coupled to the exhaust system; wherein said supporting means supports the plurality of substrates in a stacked orientation in the process chamber, said stacked orientation comprising a first substrate having an exposed surface and a last substrate having an exposed surface, said exposed surfaces of said first and last substrates having an emissivity value; said system further comprising surfaces that oppose said exposed surfaces of the first and last substrates when the plurality of substrates are supported in said stacked orientation within said process chamber, said opposing surfaces having an emissivity value that corresponds to said emissivity value of said exposed surfaces of said first and last substrates; said first housing comprising a liner constructed of a carbon based material and a shell surrounding the liner, that is constructed of a non-porous material; wherein said liner comprised said gas inlet manifold and the exhaust manifold and means to heat said process chamber. 22. A method of processing substrates comprising: providing a system according to claim 1; supporting a plurality of substrates in said supporting means while said movable plate is in said loading position; moving said movable plate to said processing position, thereby closing said opening with said movable plate; and flowing hydrofluoric acid gas into said process chamber via said gas inlet port, over said plurality substrates, and out of said process chamber via said exhaust port. 23. The system of claim 1 wherein said gas inlet manifold and said gas exhaust manifold are rectangular and have a height and width at least that of the height and width, respectively, of the stack and positioned for streamlined flow over all the wafers. 24. The system of claim 1 wherein said inlet and exhaust manifolds having distribution holes whose diameter increases with increasing distance from the center. 