A method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects includes the following steps, selecting a number of significant points on an object, categorizing the significant points into measurable points and specific points, defining a relationship between the measurable points and the specific points with a statistical regression model, creating a table of weighted values for the specific points and animating an object based on the weighted value table. The present invention uses the measured displacement of a number of measurable points to calculate expected positions of the specific points to reduce processing time and create real time images. The method uses a statistical analysis method to decrease access time to a database, save storage space of the database and create lifelike, real-time and animated images in accordance with the object as the object changed its surface.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects, comprising: selecting a number of significant points on a surface of an object; categorizing the significant points into a number of measurable points and a number of specific points, wherein the measurable points are predetermined points on the surface of the object and each measurable point has displacement, and wherein the specific points are determined in response to a change on the surface of the object; defining a relationship between the measurable points and the specific points with a statistical regression analysis; creating a table of weighted values for the specific points based on the relationship defined through the statistical regression analysis; and animating a deformed object based on the weighted values table, wherein the statistical regression analysis includes a first-order multiple linear regression model, and the first-order multiple linear regression model is solved by a least square approximation to calculate the weighted values. 2. A method as in claim 1, wherein defining a relationship between the measurable points and the specific points with a statistical regression analysis comprises: changing the surface of the object to create a series of base deformations; measuring displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base deformations; and using the statistical regression analysis to define the relationship by analyzing the measured positions of all the measurable points and the specific points for each base expression. 3. A method as in claim 1, wherein animating a deformed object comprises: changing the surface of the object; measuring displacements of the measurable points; calculating expected positions of the specific points with the measured displacements of the measurable points and the table of weighted values; and using measured positions of all the measurable points and the calculated positions of all the specific points to create the deformed object. 4. A method as in claim 1, wherein the surface of the object is two-dimensional whereby the displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base expressions are measured from the changed surface of the object. 5. A method as in claim 1, wherein the surface of the object is three-dimensional whereby the displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base expressions are measured from the changed surface of the object. 6. A method as in claim 1, wherein the object is a human face. 7. A computer system configured to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects by performing the steps of: selecting a number of significant points on a surface of an object; categorizing the significant points into a number of measurable points and a number of specific points, the measurable points having displacements that are measurable before and after the object changes, the specific points having displacements that are measurable before the object changes and that are determined after the object changes; defining a relationship between the measurable points and the specific points with a statistical regression analysis; creating a table of weighted values for the specific points based on the relationship defined through the statistical regression analysis; and animating a deformed object based on the weighted values table, wherein the computer system performs said statistical regression analysis by implementing a multi-order multiple linear regression model and solves the multi-order multiple linear regression model by a least square approximation to calculate the weighted values. 8. A computer system as in claim 7, wherein the computer system defines a relationship between the measurable points and the specific points with a statistical regression analysis by performing the steps of: changing the surface of the object to create a series of base deformations; measuring displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base deformations; and using the statistical regression analysis to define the relationship by analyzing the measured positions of all the measurable points and the specific points for each base expression. 9. A computer system as in claim 7, wherein the computer system animates a deformed object by performing the steps of: changing the surface of the object; measuring displacements of the measurable points; calculating expected positions of the specific points with the measured displacements of the measurable points and the table of weighted values; and using measured positions of all the measurable points and the calculated positions of all the specific points to create the deformed object. 10. A computer system as in claim 7, wherein the surface of the object is two-dimensional and the computer system measures the displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base expressions from the changed surface of the object. 11. A computer system as in claim 7, wherein the surface of the object is three-dimensional and the computer system measures the displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base expressions from the changed surface of the object. 12. A computer system as in claim 7, wherein the object is a human face. 13. A computer system configured to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects, said system comprising: means for selecting a number of significant points on a surface of an object; means for categorizing the significant points into a number of measurable points and a number of specific points, the measurable points having displacements that are measurable before and after the object changes, the specific points having displacements that are measurable before the object changes and that are determined after the object changes; means for defining a relationship between the measurable points and the specific points by performing a statistical regression analysis; means for storing a table of weighted values for the specific points based on the relationship defined through the statistical regression analysis; and means for animating a deformed object based on the weighted values table, wherein the surface of the object is two-dimensional and the means for measuring displacements measures the displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base expressions from the changed surface of the object. 14. A computer system as in claim 13, wherein said means for defining a relationship between the measurable points and the specific points by performing a statistical regression analysis comprises: means for changing the surface of the object to create a series of base deformations; means for measuring displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base deformations; and means for using the statistical regression analysis to define the relationship by analyzing the measured positions of all the measurable points and the specific points for each base expression. 15. A computer system as in claim 13, wherein said means for animating a deformed object comprises: means for changing the surface of the object; means for measuring displacements of the measurable points; means for calculating expected positions of the specific points with the measured displacements of the measurable points and the table of weighted values; and means for using measured positions of all the measurable points and the calculated positions of all the specific points to create the deformed object. 16. A computer system as in claim 13, wherein said means for performing said statistical regression analysis implements a first-order multiple linear regression model and solves the first-order multiple linear regression model by a least square approximation to calculate the weighted values. 17. A computer system as in claim 13, wherein said means for performing said statistical regression analysis implements a multi-order multiple linear regression model and solves the multi-order multiple linear regression model by a least square approximation to calculate the weighted values. 18. A computer system as in claim 13, wherein the object is a human face. 