The present invention is directed to a tool having a wrist mechanism that provides pitch and yaw rotation in such a way that the tool has no singularity in roll, pitch, and yaw. A positively positionable multi-disk wrist mechanism includes a plurality of disks or vertebrae stacked in series. Each vertebra is configured to rotate in pitch or in yaw with respect to each neighboring vertebra. Actuation cables are used to manipulate and control movement of the vertebrae. In specific embodiments, some of the cables are distal cables that extend from a proximal vertebra through one or more intermediate vertebrae to a distal vertebra, while the remaining cables are medial cables that extend from the proximal vertebra to one or more of the intermediate vertebrae. The cables are actuated by a pivoted plate cable actuator mechanism. In specific embodiments, the actuator mechanism includes a plurality of small radius holes or grooves for receiving the medial cables and a plurality of large radius holes or grooves for receiving the distal cables. The holes or grooves restrain the medial cables to a small radius of motion and the distal cables to a large radius of motion, so that the medial cables to the medial vertebra move only a fraction of the amount as the distal cables to the distal vertebra, so as to achieve precise control and manipulation of the vertebrae.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A minimally invasive surgical instrument having an end effector, the end effector comprising: a grip support having a left pivot pin and a right pivot pin; a left jaw rotatable around the left pivot pin of the grip support and a right jaw rotatable around the right pivot pin of the grip support, a left slider pin attached to the left jaw and spaced from the left pivot pin, a right slider pin attached to the right jaw and spaced from the right pivot pin, the left and right slider pins being solid structures; a slotted member including a left slider pin slot in which the left slider pin is slidable to move the left jaw between an open position and a closed position, and a right slider pin slot in which the right slider pin is slidable to move the right jaw between an open position and a closed position; and a slider pin actuator movable relative to the slotted member to cause the left slider pin to slide in the left slider pin slot and the right slider pin to slide in the right slider pin slot, to move the left jaw and the right jaw between the open position and the closed position. 2. The instrument of claim 1 wherein the slider pin actuator includes a cam surface contacting and moving the left and right slider pins in the left and right slider pin slots, respectively, during movement of the slider pin actuator relative to the slotted member. 3. The instrument of claim 1 wherein the slider pin actuator is movable relative to the slotted member along an axis of the end effector to move the left jaw and the right jaw between the open position and the closed position in a symmetrical manner with respect to the axis of the end effector. 4. The instrument of claim 3 wherein the slider pin actuator is movable relative to the slotted member in a direction away from a distal end of the end effector along the axis of the end effector to move the left jaw and the right law to the open position, and in an opposite direction toward the distal end of the end effector along of the axis of the end effector to move the left jaw and the right jaw to the closed position. 5. The instrument of claim 3 wherein the slider pin actuator is movable relative to the slotted member in a direction away from a distal end of the end effector along the axis of the end effector by pulling a slider pin actuator cable attached to the slider pin actuator in the direction away from the distal end of the end effector, and wherein the slider pin actuator is movable relative to the slotted member in an opposite direction toward the distal end of the end effector along the axis of the end effector by pulling a slotted member cable attached to the slotted member in the direction toward the distal end of the end effector. 6. The instrument of claim 5 wherein the slider pin actuator cable and the slotted member cable are configured to move simultaneously in opposite directions to move the left jaw and the right jaw between the open position and the closed position. 7. The instrument of claim 1 further comprising: an elongate shaft having a working end, a proximal end, and a shaft axis between the working end and the proximal end; and a plurality of support cables holding the grip support of the end effector to the working end of the elongate shaft. 8. The instrument of claim 7 wherein the support cables extend to the proximal end of the elongate shaft, and are mounted to a back end and tensioned to hold the grip support to the working end of the elongate shaft. 9. The instrument of claim 8 wherein the support cables are connected to a cable tensioning member which is biased by a spring in the back end to tension the support cable. 10. The instrument of claim 7 further comprising a wrist member having a proximal portion connected to the working end and a distal portion connected to the end effector; wherein the wrist member comprises at least three vertebrae connected in series between the working end of the elongate shaft and the end effector, the vertebrae including a proximal vertebra connected to the working end of the elongate shaft and a distal vertebra connected to the end effector, each vertebra being pivotable relative to an adjacent vertebra by a nonattached contact, at least one of the vertebrae being pivotable relative to an adjacent vertebra by a nonattached pitch contact around a pitch axis, at least one of the vertebrae being pivotable relative to an adjacent vertebra by another nonattached contact around a yaw axis. 11. A minimally invasive surgical instrument having an end effector, the end effector comprising: a grip support having a left pivot pin and a right pivot pin; a left jaw rotatable around the left pivot pin of the grip support and a right jaw rotatable around the right pivot pin of the grip support, a left slider pin attached to the left jaw and spaced from the left pivot pin, a right slider pin attached to the right jaw and spaced from the right pivot pin, the left and right slider pins being solid structures; a slotted member including a left slider pin slot in which the left slider pin is slidable to move the left jaw between an open position and a closed position, and a right slider pin slot in which the right slider pin is slidable to move the right jaw between an open position and a closed position; and means for causing the left slider pin to slide in the left slider pin slot and the right slider pin to slide in the right slider pin slot, to move the left jaw and the right jaw between the open position and the closed position. 12. The instrument of claim 11 wherein the left slider pin slide in the left slider pin slot and the right slider pin slide in the right slider pin slot are so as to move the left jaw and the right jaw between the open position and the closed position in a symmetrical manner. 13. The instrument of claim 11 further comprising: an elongate shaft having a working end, a proximal end, and a shaft axis between the working end and the proximal end; and a plurality of support cables holding the grip support of the end effector to the working end of the elongate shaft. 14. The instrument of claim 13 further comprising means disposed near the proximal end of the elongate shaft for tensioning the support cables to hold the grip support to the working end of the elongate shaft. 