A system and method for automatically generating a naturally reading narrative product summary including assertions about a selected product. The method includes the steps of determining an attribute associated with the selected product, retrieving an assertion model defining forms in which an assertion can be manifested to describe the product in a natural manner, and generating a naturally reading narrative by combining the attribute with the retrieved assertion model. A product summary generator comprises a product attribute module adapted to determine an attribute, an assertion model module adapted to retrieve an assertion model, and a summary generation module adapted to generate a naturally reading narrative by combining the attribute with the retrieved assertion model. A computer readable medium for automatically generating a naturally reading narrative product summary including assertions about a selected product is also provided.
Claims We claim: 1. A method, executed by a processor, of automatically generating a naturally reading narrative product summary including assertions about a selected product, said method comprising the steps of: determining with the processor at least one attribute associated with said selected product, said attribute including at least one of an attribute name, an attribute value, and an attribute unit; retrieving with the processor an assertion model defining a usage scenario for said selected product and forms in which an assertion can be manifested to describe the product in a natural manner, said usage scenario including a set of importance ratings for said selected product; and generating with the processor a naturally reading narrative corresponding to the importance ratings for said selected product by combining said attribute with said retrieved assertion model, that constructs the narrative using general category information that is generic to the entire category of products to which the product belongs. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said assertion model comprises a plurality of assertion templates, each assertion template including a natural sentence pattern and at least one field corresponding to said attribute. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said at least one attribute is a plurality of attributes associated with said selected product and a plurality of comparable products. 4. The method of claim 3, further including the step of assigning said importance ratings, defined in a generic sense, to each of said plurality of attributes. 5. The method of claim 4, further including the step of adjusting said importance ratings. 6. The method of claim 3, further including the step of designating at least one of said plurality of attributes as key attribute. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said generated naturally reading narrative is regarding said key attribute. 8. The method of claim 4, further including the step of determining attribute ranks for each of said plurality of attributes. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said step of determining attribute ranks includes determining percentile ranks for said plurality of attributes of said selected product and said plurality of comparable products. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein said step of determining attribute ranks includes determining competitive indexes for said plurality of attributes of said selected product and said plurality of comparable products. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said step of determining competitive indexes includes the step of applying a scalar structure for each of said plurality of attributes to provide scalar value for each attribute, said competitive index for each attribute being based on said scalar value of each attribute and number of products having said scalar value. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said step of determining said competitive indexes further includes the steps of: calculating a percentile rank of each scalar value; calculating the percentile rank range which each scalar value spans; and processing a maximum percentile rank and a minimum percentile rank of said calculated percentile rank range. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said step of processing said maximum percentile rank and said minimum percentile rank includes the step of determining an average of said maximum percentile rank and said minimum percentile rank. 14. The method of claim 8, further including the step of processing said attribute rank together with the importance rating to derive a severity value for each of said plurality of attributes. 15. The method of claim 14, further including the step of generating sentences for a predetermined number of attributes having highest severity values. 16. The method of claim 14, further including the step of generating sentences for a predetermined number of attributes having lowest severity values. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein said step of deriving said severity values include the step of applying an inflection algorithm. 18. The method of claim 8, further including the step of calculating an average price of comparable products having a predetermined attribute with attribute ranks within a predetermined range of attribute rank of said selected product. 19. The method of claim 18, further including the step of generating a sentence regarding said predetermined attribute of said selected product when price of said selected product is less than said average price of comparable products by more than a predetermined percentage. 20. The method of claim 18, further including the step of generating a sentence regarding said predetermined attribute of said selected product when price of said selected product is more than said average price of comparable products by more than a predetermined percentage. 21. The method of claim 20, further including the step of generating a sentence identifying at least one comparable product having an attribute rank substantially the same as said selected product for said predetermined attribute, and having a price that is less than price of said selected product by more than a predetermined percentage. 22. The method of claim 8, further including the step of calculating an average attribute rank of comparable products having a predetermined attribute and a price within a predetermined range of said selected product. 23. The method of claim 22, further including the step of generating a sentence regarding said predetermined attribute of said selected product when said attribute rank of said selected product is more than said average attribute rank for comparable products by more than a predetermined percentage. 24. The method of claim 22, further including the step of generating a sentence regarding said predetermined attribute of said selected product when attribute rank of said selected product is less than said average attribute rank for comparable products by a predetermined percentage. 25. The method of claim 24, further including the step of generating a sentence identifying at least one comparable product having a higher competitive index than competitive index of said selected product for said predetermined attribute, and having a price that is less than price of said selected product by more than a predetermined percentage. 26. The method of claim 2, further including the steps of creating at least one secondary attribute associated with said selected product based on said at least one attribute, said at least one secondary attribute including least one of an attribute name, an attribute value, and an attribute unit; retrieving another assertion template; and generating a sentence by combining said secondary attribute with said retrieved assertion template. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein said step of creating said at least one secondary attribute further includes the steps of applying a function to said secondary attribute. 28. The method of claim 27, further comprising the step of overwriting an attribute with another attribute. 29. The method of claim 27, further comprising the step of adding an attribute to another attribute. 30. The method of claim 3, wherein said assertion model is a plurality of assertion models, and said method further comprises the step of designating themes to said plurality of assertion models. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein said naturally reading narrative is a plurality of sentences, and said method further including the step of assembling said plurality of sentences generated based on said themes of said sentences. 32. The method of claim 31, further including the step of assembling generated sentences of each designated theme into paragraphs of said product summary. 33. The method of claim 31, further including the step of limiting the number of sentences based on a verbosity setting. 34. The method of claim 31, further including the step of providing transitional phrases between generated sentences. 35. A product summary generator for automatically generating a naturally reading narrative product summary including assertions about a selected product, said product summary generator comprising: a processor unit adapted to do at least one of controlling and/or facilitating functions of various modules of the product summary generator; a product attribute module adapted to determine at least one attribute associated with said selected product, said attribute including at least one of an attribute name, an attribute value, and an attribute unit; an assertion model module adapted to retrieve an assertion model that defines one or more usage scenarios for said selected product and forms in which an assertion can be manifested to describe the product in a natural manner, said one or more usage scenarios including a set of importance ratings for said selected product; and a summary generation module adapted to generate a naturally reading narrative corresponding to the importance ratings for said selected product by combining said attribute with said retrieved assertion model that constructs the narrative using general category information that is generic to the entire category of products to which the product belongs. 36. The product summary generator of claim 35, wherein said assertion model comprises a plurality of assertion templates, each assertion template including a natural sentence pattern and at least one field corresponding to said attribute. 37. The product summary generator of claim 36, wherein said at least one attribute is a plurality of attributes associated with said selected product and a plurality of comparable products. 38. The product summary generator of claim 37, wherein each of said plurality of attributes have said importance rating, defined in a generic sense, assigned thereto. 39. The product summary generator of claim 38, wherein said product attribute module is further adapted to adjust said importance ratings assigned to said plurality of attributes. 40. The product summary generator of claim 37, wherein at least one of said plurality of attributes is a key attribute. 41. The product summary generator of claim 40, wherein said generated naturally reading narrative is regarding said key attribute. 42. The product summary generator of claim 38, wherein said product attribute module is further adapted to determine attribute ranks for each of said plurality of attributes. 43. The product summary generator of claim 42, wherein said product attribute module is further adapted to determine percentile ranks for said plurality of attributes of said selected product and said plurality of comparable products. 44. The product summary generator of claim 42, wherein said product attribute module is further adapted to determine competitive indexes for said plurality of attributes of said selected product and said plurality of comparable products. 45. The product summary generator of claim 42, wherein said product attribute module is further adapted to process said attribute rank together with said importance rating to derive a severity value for each of said plurality of attributes. 46. The product summary generator of claim 45, wherein said summary generation module is further adapted to generate sentences for a predetermined number of attributes having highest severity values. 47. The product summary generator of claim 45, wherein said summary generation module is further adapted to generate sentences for a predetermined number of attributes having lowest severity values. 48. The product summary generator of claim 45, wherein said summary generation module is further adapted to apply an inflection algorithm to determine said severity values. 49. The product summary generator of claim 42, wherein said product attribute module is further adapted to calculate an average price of comparable products having a predetermined attribute with attribute ranks within a predetermined range of attribute rank of said selected product. 50. The product summary generator of claim 42, wherein said summary generation module is further adapted to generate a sentence regarding said predetermined attribute of said selected product when price of said selected product is less than said average price of comparable products by more than a predetermined percentage. 51. The product summary generator of claim 42, wherein said summary generation module is further adapted to generate a sentence regarding said predetermined attribute of said selected product when price of said selected product is more than said average price of comparable products by more than a predetermined percentage. 52. The product summary generator of claim 51, wherein said summary generation module is further adapted to generate a sentence identifying at least one comparable product having an attribute rank substantially the same as said selected product for said predetermined attribute, and having a price that is less than price of said selected product by more than a predetermined percentage. 53. The product summary generator of claim 42, wherein said product attribute module is further adapted to calculate an average attribute rank of comparable products having a predetermined attribute and a price within a predetermined range of said selected product. 54. The product summary generator of claim 53, wherein said summary generation module is further adapted to generate a sentence regarding said predetermined attribute of said selected product when said attribute rank of said selected product is more than said average attribute rank for comparable products by more than a predetermined percentage. 55. The product summary generator of claim 53, wherein said summary generation module is further adapted to generate a sentence regarding said predetermined attribute of said selected product when attribute rank of said selected product is less than said average attribute rank for comparable products by a predetermined percentage. 56. The product summary generator of claim 55, wherein said summary generation module is further adapted to generate a sentence identifying at least one comparable product having a higher competitive index than competitive index of said selected product for said predetermined attribute, and having a price that is less than price of said selected product by more than a predetermined percentage. 57. The product summary generator of claim 36, further comprising a secondary attribute module adapted to create at least one secondary attribute associated with said selected product based on said at least one attribute, said at least one secondary attribute including least one of an attribute name, an attribute value, and an attribute unit. 58. The product summary generator of claim 57, wherein said secondary attribute module is further adapted to retrieve another assertion template, and to generate a sentence by combining said secondary attribute with said retrieved assertion template. 59. The product summary generator of claim 58, further comprising a functions database, wherein said secondary attribute module is further adapted to retrieve and apply a function from said functions database to create said at least one secondary attribute. 60. The product summary generator of claim 37, wherein said assertion model is a plurality of assertion models, each having themes designated thereto. 61. The product summary generator of claim 60, wherein said naturally reading narrative is a plurality of sentences, and said summary generation module is further adapted to assemble said plurality of sentences generated based on said themes of said sentences. 62. The product summary generator of claim 61, wherein said summary generation module is further adapted to assemble said plurality of sentences of each designated theme into paragraphs of said product summary. 63. The product summary generator of claim 61, wherein said summary generation module is further adapted to limit the number of sentences based on a verbosity setting. 64. The product summary generator of claim 61, wherein said summary generation module is further adapted to provide transitional phrases between generated sentences. 65. A computer readable medium having computer readable instructions to be executed by a computer recorded thereon for automatically generating a naturally reading narrative product summary including assertions about a selected product, said medium comprising: instructions for determining at least one attribute associated with said selected product, said attribute including at least one of an attribute name, an attribute value, and an attribute unit; instructions for retrieving an assertion model defining one or more usage scenarios for said selected product and forms in which an assertion can be manifested to describe the product in a natural manner, said one or more usage scenario including a set of importance ratings for said selected product; and instructions for generating a naturally reading narrative corresponding to the importance ratings for said selected product by combining said attribute with said retrieved assertion model that constructs the narrative using general category information that is generic to the entire category of products to which the product belongs. 66. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of retrieving the assertion model involves retrieving different forms of the attribute name, where applicable. 67. The product summary generator of claim 35, wherein the assertion model module retrieves different forms of the attribute name, where applicable. 68. The computer readable medium of claim 65, wherein the instructions for retrieving the assertion model involve retrieving different forms of the attribute name, where applicable. 69. The computer readable medium of claim 65, wherein the instructions for retrieving the assertion model comprises a plurality of assertion templates, each assertion template including a natural sentence pattern and at least one field corresponding to said attribute. 70. The computer readable medium of claim 69, wherein said at least one attribute is a plurality of attributes associated with said selected product and a plurality of comparable products. 71. The computer readable medium of claim 70, further including instructions for assigning said importance ratings, defined in a generic sense to each of said plurality of attributes. 72. The method of claim 4 wherein the importance ratings facilitate combining usage scenarios of said selected product. 73. The product summary generator of claim 38 wherein the importance ratings facilitate combination of usage scenarios of said selected product. 74. The computer readable medium of claim 71 wherein the importance ratings facilitate combination of usage scenarios of said selected product. 75. The method of claim 1, wherein said set of importance ratings corresponds to an intended use of said product. 76. The product summary generator of claim 35, wherein said set of importance ratings corresponds to an intended use of said product. 77. The computer readable medium of claim 65, wherein said set of importance ratings corresponds to an intended use of said product. 