A medical robotic system includes a surgical instrument, a robotic arm assembly, an input device, and a processor. The surgical instrument has an end effector and a sensor for sensing a force exerted by the end effector, and is operatively mounted on the robotic arm assembly. The processor is configured to receive commanded movement of the end effector from the input device, receive information of the force from the sensor, determine a reduced velocity of the commanded movement that would inhibit damage causing motion of the end effector, and control robotic manipulation of the surgical instrument in response to the commanded movement of the end effector while restricting the velocity of the commanded movement to the reduced velocity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for inhibiting damage causing commanded motions from being performed by an end effector of a robotically manipulated surgical instrument, comprising: receiving commanded movement of the end effector; receiving information of force being exerted by the end effector; determining a reduced velocity of the commanded movement that would inhibit damage causing forces; and controlling the robotic manipulation of the surgical instrument in response to the commanded movement of the end effector so as to restrict the velocity of the commanded movement to the reduced velocity. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the force and a velocity of the commanded movement are defined with respect to a Cartesian reference frame and the determination of the reduced velocity comprises: determining the reduced velocity if the velocity of the commanded movement and the force share a common component in the Cartesian reference frame. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the determination of whether the velocity of the commanded movement and the force share the common component comprises: determining whether a scalar product of the velocity of the commanded movement and a versor of the force is greater than zero. 4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the determination of the reduced velocity comprises: computing a velocity limiting function that is a function of a magnitude of the force and results in the reduced velocity when the magnitude of the force exceeds a threshold force level. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the computation of the velocity limiting function results in the reduced velocity having a zero value prior to the magnitude of the force reaching a level that would cause tissue damage. 6. The method according to claim 4, wherein the computation of the velocity limiting function results in the reduced velocity having a zero value prior to the magnitude of the force reaching a level that would cause a filament being used in a medical procedure to break if pulled on by the force being exerted by the end effector. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein surgical instrument is manipulatable by a robotic arm having a plurality of joints and the determination of the reduced velocity comprises: computing a joint velocity limit for at least one of the plurality of joints so as to decrease from an initially set velocity limit down to a lower velocity limit as a magnitude of the force increases after exceeding a threshold force level. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the computation of the joint velocity limit comprises computing the joint velocity limit so that it decreases from the initially set velocity limit down to zero prior to the magnitude of the force reaching a level that would cause a filament being used in a medical procedure to break if pulled on by the force being exerted by the end effector. 9. The method according to claim 7, wherein the computation of the joint velocity limit comprises computing the joint velocity limit so that it decreases from the initially set velocity limit down to zero prior to the magnitude of the force reaching a level that would cause tissue damage. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein surgical instrument is manipulatable by a robotic arm having a plurality of joints and the determination of the reduced velocity comprises: kinematically mapping the force to corresponding torques on the plurality of joints; and computing a joint velocity limit for at least one of the plurality of joints so as to decrease from an initially set velocity limit to a lower velocity limit as the torque increases after exceeding a threshold torque level. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the computation of the joint velocity limit comprises computing the joint velocity limit so as to decrease from the initially set velocity limit down to zero prior to the torque reaching a level that would cause a filament being used in a medical procedure to break if pulled on by the force being exerted by the end effector. 12. The method according to claim 10, wherein the computation of the joint velocity limit is performed for any one of the plurality of joints only if a product of the torque being exerted at the one joint and a joint velocity of the one joint is greater than zero. 13. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: causing haptic feedback to be provided to an input device from whose movement the commanded movement of the end effector is derived so as to reflect a difference between the position of the input device and the position of the surgical instrument that results from the reduction in the velocity of the commanded movement. 14. A medical robotic system, comprising: an input device; a robotic arm assembly; a surgical instrument operatively coupled to the robotic arm assembly, the surgical instrument having an end effector and a sensor adapted to sense a force being exerted by the end effector; and a processor configured to receive commanded movement of the end effector from the input device, receive information of the force from the sensor, determine a reduced velocity of the commanded movement that would inhibit damage causing motions of the end effector, and control robotic manipulation of the surgical instrument in response to the commanded movement of the end effector while restricting the velocity of the commanded movement to the reduced velocity. 15. The system according to claim 14, wherein the force and a velocity of the commanded movement are defined a Cartesian reference frame and the processor is configured to: determine the reduced velocity if the velocity of the commanded movement and the force share a common component in the Cartesian reference frame. 16. The system according to claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to determine whether the velocity of the commanded movement and the force share the common component by determining whether a scalar product of the velocity of the commanded movement and a versor of the force is greater than zero. 17. The system according to claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to determine the reduced velocity by computing a velocity limiting function that is a function of a magnitude of the force and results in the reduced velocity when the magnitude of the force exceeds a threshold force level. 18. The system according to claim 17, wherein the processor is configured to compute the velocity limiting function so that it results in the reduced velocity have a zero value prior to the magnitude of the force reaching a level that would cause a filament being used in a medical procedure to break if pulled on by the force being exerted by the end effector. 19. The system according to claim 14, wherein surgical instrument is manipulatable by a robotic arm having a plurality of joints and the processor is configured to determine the reduced velocity by computing a joint velocity limit for at least one of the plurality of joints so as to decrease from an initially set velocity limit down to a lower velocity limit as a magnitude of the force increases after exceeding a threshold force level. 20. The system according to claim 19, wherein the processor is configured to compute the joint velocity limit by computing the joint velocity limit so that it decreases from the initially set velocity limit down to zero prior to the magnitude of the force reaching a level that would cause a filament being used in a medical procedure to break if pulled on by the force being exerted by the end effector. 21. The system according to claim 14, wherein surgical instrument is manipulatable by a robotic arm having a plurality of joints and the processor is configured to determine the reduced velocity by kinematically mapping the force to corresponding torques on the plurality of joints and computing a joint velocity limit for at least one of the plurality of joints so as to decrease from an initially set velocity limit to a lower velocity limit as the torque increases after exceeding a threshold torque level. 22. The system according to claim 21, wherein the processor is configured to compute the joint velocity limit by computing the joint velocity limit so as to decrease from the initially set velocity limit down to zero prior to the torque reaching a level that would cause a filament being used in a medical procedure to break if pulled on by the force being exerted by the end effector. 23. The system according to claim 21, wherein the processor is configured to compute the joint velocity limit for one of the plurality of joints only if a product of the torque being exerted at the joint and a joint velocity of the joint is greater than zero. 24. The system according to claim 14, further comprising: an input device from whose movement the commanded movement of the end effector is derived, wherein the processor is configured to cause haptic feedback to be provided to the input device so as to reflect a difference between the position of the input device and the position of the surgical instrument that results from the reduction in the velocity of the commanded movement. 