In one aspect, the invention is directed to polypeptides having an amylase activity, polynucleotides encoding the polypeptides, and methods for making and using these polynucleotides and polypeptides. In one aspect, the polypeptides of the invention can be used as amylases, for example, alpha amylases, to catalyze the hydrolysis of starch into sugars. In one aspect, the invention provides delayed release compositions comprising an desired ingredient coated by a latex polymer coating.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide having alpha-amylase activity comprising: (a) an amino acid sequence having at least 90% sequence identity to the sequence SEQ ID NO: 419, or a fragment thereof having alpha-amylase activity; or (b) the polypeptide of (a) lacking a signal sequence. 2. A protein preparation comprising the polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the protein preparation comprises a liquid, a solid or a gel. 3. A fusion protein comprising the polypeptide of claim 1 and a second domain. 4. An immobilized polypeptide, wherein the polypeptide comprises a sequence as set forth in claim 1. 5. An array comprising an immobilized polypeptide of claim 1. 6. A composition comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 7. A food, feed, food supplement or feed supplement for an animal, an edible material or an edible enzyme delivery matrix, comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 8. A food supplement, feed supplement, feed or a food comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 9. A detergent composition comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 10. A high-maltose or a high-glucose liquid or syrup comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 11. An alcoholic beverage comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 12. A beer comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 13. An oral care product comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 14. A delayed release or controlled release composition comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 15. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide comprises at least one glycosylation site. 16. A method for hydrolyzing a starch, or removing or liquefying the starch, comprising the following steps: (a) providing a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, wherein the polypeptide comprises the polypeptide of claim 1; (b) providing a composition comprising starch; and (c) contacting the polypeptide of step (a) with the composition of step (b) under conditions wherein the polypeptide hydrolyzes the starch, or removes or liquefies the starch. 17. A method for hydrolyzing starch in a food supplement or feed supplement, or a feed or a food prior to consumption by an animal comprising the following steps: (a) obtaining a feed or food material, or a food supplement or feed supplement, comprising starch, wherein the starch can be hydrolyzed by a polypeptide having alpha-amylase activity, wherein the polypeptide comprises the polypeptide of claim 1; and (b) adding the polypeptide of step (a) to the feed or food material, or food supplement or feed supplement, in an amount sufficient for a sufficient time period to cause hydrolysis of the starch and formation of a treated food or feed food supplement or feed supplement, thereby hydrolyzing the starch in the food supplement, feed supplement, food or the feed prior to consumption by the animal. 18. A method for producing a high-maltose or a high-glucose syrup comprising the following steps: (a) providing a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, wherein the polypeptide comprises the polypeptide of claim 1; (b) providing a composition comprising a starch; and (c) contacting the polypeptide of step (a) and the composition of step (b) under conditions wherein the polypeptide of step (a) can hydrolyze the composition of step (b), thereby producing a high-maltose or a high-glucose syrup. 19. A method for washing an object comprising the following steps: (a) providing a composition comprising a polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, wherein the polypeptide comprises the polypeptide of claim 1; (b) providing an object; and (c) contacting the polypeptide of step (a) and the object of step (b) under conditions wherein the composition can wash the object. 20. A method for using amylase in brewing or alcohol production comprising the following steps: (a) providing a polypeptide comprising the polypeptide of claim 1; (b) providing a composition used for brewing or in alcohol production comprising starch; and (c) combining the polypeptide of step (a) with the composition of the step (b) under conditions wherein the polypeptide can hydrolyze the starch in the composition used for brewing or alcohol production. 21. A method for producing a food or feed comprising a alpha amylase, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a polypeptide having alpha-amylase activity, wherein the polypeptide comprises the polypeptide of claim 1; (b) providing a composition comprising a food or feed; and (c) mixing the alpha-amylase and the feed-comprising composition, thereby producing a food or feed comprising a alpha amylase. 