A brain-based device (BBD) for moving in a real-world environment has sensors that provide data about the environment, actuators to move the BBD, and a hybrid controller which includes a neural controller having a simulated nervous system being a model of selected areas of the human brain and a non-neural controller based on a computational algorithmic network. The neural controller and non-neural controller interact with one another to control movement of the BBD.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A brain-based device (BBD) for moving in a real-world environment, comprising: a) sensors for providing input data about the real-world environment; b) actuators for enabling the BBD to move about in the real-world environment; and c) a hybrid controller, responsive to the input data, for providing output data to control said actuators, said hybrid controller, responsive including i) a neural controller having a simulated nervous system exhibiting the morphology and function of a portion of the human brain, the neural controller configured to generate command output data to control said actuators; and ii) a non-neural controller for functioning based on a computational algorithmic network; d) wherein said neural controller and said non-neural controller interact with each other to adapt the movement of the BBD in the real-world environment in response to changing environmental conditions sensed by said sensors e) said non-neural controller, in response to certain input data relating to given real-world environment condition, operable to override the command output data from said neural controller controlling said actuators. 2. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 1, wherein a) said neural controller includes a neuronal group of neuronal elements, the neural group having activity in dependence on the input data; b) said non-neural controller includes an action selection unit for controlling said actuators to move the BBD in a particular direction; and c) wherein if the activity of said neuronal group exceeds a threshold activity in response to the input data, said neuronal group controls said action selection unit of said non-neural controller to adapt the movement of the BBD in the real-world environment. 3. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 2, wherein a) the input data to said neuronal group represents a field of view of a movable object in the real-world environment; and b) said action selection unit causes the BBD to move towards the movable object. 4. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 2, wherein a) said neuronal group, in response to visual input data, produces first heading information about an object movable in the real-world environment; b) said non-neural controller includes an obstacle avoidance algorithm for providing second heading information about an obstacle in the real-world environment; and c) said obstacle avoidance algorithm uses said first heading information to generate control information to determine a direction of movement of the BBD and avoid the obstacle, said actuators being responsive to the control information. 5. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 4, wherein a) said sensors have a visual field that provides visual information about the real-world environment; b) said neural controller tracks a moving ball in the visual field of said sensors to produce a value that corresponds to the azimuth and heading of the moving ball in the visual field; and c) wherein said obstacle avoidance algorithm of said non-neural controller, in response to the first heading information of the ball and the second heading information of the obstacle, generates control data for said actuators to cause the BBD to chase the ball. 6. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 1, wherein a) said neural controller includes a plurality of neuronal groups of neuronal elements; b) wherein said non-neural controller can create temporary synaptic connections between said neuronal groups of said neural controller; and c) wherein said neuronal groups having said temporary synaptic connections and in response to movement of the BBD in the real-world environment, undergoes neural activity. 7. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 6, wherein a) said non-neural controller includes an action selection unit for controlling said actuators to move the BBD in a particular direction; b) said action selection unit of said non-neuronal controller, in response to an object moving in the real-world environment, determines that the object should be chased; c) said neural controller includes a first neuronal group of neuronal elements having activity associated with movement of an object in the real-world environment and a second neuronal group of neuronal elements having activity associated with motor movement of the BBD; and d) said action selection unit, in response to the determination to chase the object, creates temporary synaptic connections from said first neuronal group to said second neuronal group to move the BBD and chase the object. 8. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 1, wherein said neural controller, in response to the input data, generates the output data being a command to said actuators to move the BBD. 9. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 8, wherein a) said sensors include a movable sensor for detecting a visual field of the real-world environment; b) said neural controller includes a first neuronal group of neuronal elements for controlling movement of said movable sensor for sensing the visual field, and a second neuronal group of neuronal elements for controlling the movement of the BBD; c) said non-neuronal controller includes an obstacle avoidance algorithm for providing information about the heading of an obstacle in the real-world environment; and d) wherein said obstacle avoidance algorithm of said non-neuronal controller, in response to detection of the obstacle, inhibits said first neuronal group and said second neuronal group and produces a motor command signal to control movement of the BBD to avoid the obstacle. 10. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 1, wherein said neuronal controller and said non-neural controller receive and respond to the same input data. 11. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 10, wherein a) said sensors include a laser to provide an input stream of laser range data to said hybrid controller; b) said simulated nervous system of said neural controller further includes a neural group of neuronal elements exhibiting the morphology and function of the cortical area of the human brain, the neural group of neuronal elements configured to directly receive an input stream of laser range data; and c) said non-neuronal controller includes a localization computational algorithm to determine the location of the BBD in the real-world environment in response to said input stream of laser range data. 12. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 1, wherein said neural controller and said non-neural controller interact with one another to process a circular flow of information to and from said neural controller and said non-neural controller. 13. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 12, wherein a) said non-neural controller includes a localization computational algorithm to provide information about the location of the BBD in the real-world environment; b) said simulated nervous system of said neural controller further includes a group of neuronal elements exhibiting the morphology and function of the hippocampus of the human brain; and c) wherein the activity of the localization computational algorithm and the neuronal group of neuronal elements provide, through the circular flow of information, updated information for use by the localization computational algorithm for determining the location of the BBD in the real-world environment. 14. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 1, wherein said non-neural controller modulates neural activity in said neural controller. 15. A brain-based device (BBD) according to claim 14, wherein a) said neural controller includes a plurality of neuronal groups of neuronal elements which are synaptically connectable; b) said non-neural controller includes an action selection algorithmic module for controlling the action of the BBD; and c) wherein said action selection algorithmic module increases activity between one neuronal group and another neuronal group while allowing for cross-inhibition of activity between all other neuronal groups. 