A method that includes providing a cavity defined by at least a portion of a mold and a closure member attached to the portion of the mold, the portion of the mold being oriented vertically and having a top and a bottom, and a sealing material being positioned near the bottom and attached to the closure member; puncturing the sealing material and the closure member with an instrument near the bottom, the puncturing creating an opening in the sealing material; and introducing a polymerizable composition into the cavity through the instrument. A method useful in testing sealing materials. Other methods are also disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. A method comprising: providing a cavity defined by at least a portion of a mold and a closure member attached to the portion of the mold, the portion of the mold being oriented substantially vertically and having a top and a bottom, and a sealing material being positioned near the bottom and attached to the closure member; puncturing the sealing material and the closure member with an instrument near the bottom, the puncturing creating an opening in the sealing material; introducing a polymerizable composition into the cavity through the instrument; retracting the instrument from the cavity after the introducing, where the opening in the sealing material has a size, and the sealing material possesses a self-sealing property that reduces the size of the opening after the instrument is retracted; and prior to any polymerizing of the polymerizable composition, rotating the portion of the mold approximately 90 degrees about a horizontal axis passing through the portion of the mold. 2. The method of claim 1, where the sealing material is made from a piece of sealing material that will yield a cavity pressure that is greater than or equal to 10 millimeters of mercury and less than or equal to 505 millimeters of mercury when tested by: providing a cavity having at least one opening over which the piece of sealing material is positioned, the cavity containing liquid; puncturing the piece of sealing material with an instrument, thereby creating a sealing material opening for a period of time; applying a vacuum to the cavity; and noting the cavity pressure approximately when a first bubble forms around gas entering the liquid through the sealing material opening from outside the cavity. 3. The method of claim 1, where the sealing material is made from a piece of sealing material that will yields a cavity pressure that is greater than or equal to 75 millimeters of mercury and less than or equal to 505 millimeters of mercury when tested by: providing a cavity having at least one opening over which the piece of sealing material is positioned, the cavity containing liquid; puncturing the piece of sealing material with an instrument, thereby creating a sealing material opening for a period of time; applying a vacuum to the cavity; and noting the cavity pressure approximately when a first bubble forms around gas entering the liquid through the sealing material opening from outside the cavity. 4. The method of claim 1, where the rotating includes rotating the portion of the mold 90 degrees about a horizontal axis passing through the portion of the mold. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: polymerizing the polymerizable composition to form an optical lens. 6. The method of claim 1, where the cavity is further defined by a piece of vent tape positioned near the top and attached to the closure member. 7. The method of claim 6, where the piece of vent tape is configured to allow air, but not the polymerizable composition, to pass through the piece of vent tape. 8. The method of claim 1, where the portion of the mold oriented substantially vertically comprises at least two mold pieces having edges, and the closure member is attached to the edges of the at least two mold pieces. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: polymerizing the composition to form an optical lens within four minutes. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: polymerizing the composition to form an optical lens within seven minutes. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: polymerizing the composition to form an optical lens within ten minutes to two hours. 12. The method of claim 1, where the sealing material includes silicone. 13. A method for making a lens, the method comprising: providing a vertically-oriented molding cavity having a top and a bottom and being defined by at least (a) a first mold piece having a concave surface, (b) a second mold piece having a convex surface, and (c) a closure member disposed around and attached to the first and second mold pieces, a sealing material being connected to the closure member and positioned near the bottom; puncturing the sealing material and the closure material with an instrument near the bottom, the puncturing creating an opening in the sealing material; introducing a polymerizable composition into the cavity through the instrument; retracting the instrument from the cavity; prior to any polymerizing of the polymerizable composition, rotating the molding cavity approximately 90 degrees about a horizontal axis passing through the molding cavity; and after the rotating, polymerizing the polymerizable composition to form the lens; where the opening in the sealing material has a size that reduces after the instrument is retracted. 14. The method of claim 13, where the sealing material is made from a piece of sealing material that will yields a cavity pressure that is greater than or equal to 10 millimeters of mercury and less than or equal to 505 millimeters of mercury when tested by: providing a cavity having at least one opening over which the piece of sealing material is positioned, the cavity containing liquid; puncturing the piece of sealing material with an instrument, thereby creating a sealing material opening for a period of time; applying a vacuum to the cavity; and noting the cavity pressure approximately when a first bubble forms around gas entering the liquid through the sealing material opening from outside the cavity. 15. The method of claim 13, where the sealing material is made from a piece of sealing material that will yields a cavity pressure that is greater than or equal to 75 millimeters of mercury and less than or equal to 505 millimeters of mercury when tested by: providing a cavity having at least one opening over which the piece of sealing material is positioned, the cavity containing liquid; puncturing the piece of sealing material with an instrument, thereby creating a sealing material opening for a period of time; applying a vacuum to the cavity; and noting the cavity pressure approximately when a first bubble forms around gas entering the liquid through the sealing material opening from outside the cavity. 16. A method comprising: providing a cavity defined by at least a portion of a mold and a closure member attached to the portion of the mold, the portion of the mold being oriented substantially vertically and having a top and a bottom, and a sealing material being positioned near the bottom and attached to the closure member; puncturing the sealing material and the closure member with an instrument near the bottom, the puncturing creating an opening in the sealing material; introducing a polymerizable composition into the cavity through the instrument; retracting the instrument from the cavity after the introducing, where the opening in the sealing material has a size, and the sealing material possesses a self-sealing property that reduces the size of the opening after the instrument is retracted; and after the retracting, and prior to any polymerizing of the polymerizable composition, rotating the portion of the mold approximately 90 degrees about a horizontal axis passing through the portion of the mold to reduce or eliminate the possibility that any microbubbles that form within the polymerizable composition after entering the polymerizable composition through the opening in the sealing material and that remain after the instrument is retracted migrate to the central portion of the mold. 17. The method of claim 16, where the sealing material is made from a piece of sealing material that will yield a cavity pressure that is greater than or equal to 10 millimeters of mercury and less than or equal to 505 millimeters of mercury when tested by: providing a cavity having at least one opening over which the piece of sealing material is positioned, the cavity containing liquid; puncturing the piece of sealing material with an instrument, thereby creating a sealing material opening for a period of time; applying a vacuum to the cavity; and noting the cavity pressure approximately when a first bubble forms around gas entering the liquid through the sealing material opening from outside the cavity. 18. The method of claim 16, where the sealing material is made from a piece of sealing material that will yields a cavity pressure that is greater than or equal to 75 millimeters of mercury and less than or equal to 505 millimeters of mercury when tested by: providing a cavity having at least one opening over which the piece of sealing material is positioned, the cavity containing liquid; puncturing the piece of sealing material with an instrument, thereby creating a sealing material opening for a period of time; applying a vacuum to the cavity; and noting the cavity pressure approximately when a first bubble forms around gas entering the liquid through the sealing material opening from outside the cavity. 19. The method of claim 16, where the rotating includes rotating the portion of the mold 90 degrees about a horizontal axis passing through the portion of the mold. 20. The method of claim 16, further comprising: polymerizing the polymerizable composition to form an optical lens. 21. The method of claim 16, where the cavity is further defined by a piece of vent tape positioned near the top and attached to the closure member. 22. The method of claim 21, where the piece of vent tape is configured to allow air, but not the polymerizable composition, to pass through the piece of vent tape. 23. The method of claim 16, where the portion of the mold oriented substantially vertically comprises at least two mold pieces having edges, and the closure member is attached to the edges of the at least two mold pieces. 24. The method of claim 16, further comprising: polymerizing the composition to form an optical lens within four minutes. 25. The method of claim 16, further comprising: polymerizing the composition to form an optical lens within seven minutes. 26. The method of claim 16, further comprising: polymerizing the composition to form an optical lens within ten minutes to two hours. 27. The method of claim 16, where the sealing material includes silicone. 