A method is provided for performing a total knee arthroplasty. The method includes making a primary incision near a knee joint of a patient and resecting medial and lateral condyles of the femur of the leg to create at least one femoral cut surface. The resecting step is performed without dislocating the knee joint. The method also includes balancing various ligament tensions to obtain desired tension and moving a femoral component of a total knee implant through the primary incision. The method further includes positioning the femoral component with respect to the at least one femoral cut surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An implant for implantation in a recess created in an articular surface on a bone of a patient, the implant comprising: a body sized to be inserted into the recess, the body having an outer surface, sized smaller than the articulating surface, and configured and dimensioned to bear weight placed upon the articular surface within which the body is implanted, and an inner surface, the inner surface including a textured material operative to contact cortical or cancellous bone, the textured material further operative to promote tissue growth, into the textured material, of bone of the patient, thereby forming a fixation between the body and the bone of the patient, the outer surface and inner surface operatively associated to transfer a weight placed upon the articular surface, to bone beneath the articular surface. 2. The implant of claim 1 wherein the body is formed to include a scaffold. 3. The implant of claim 2 wherein the scaffold is formed with fibrous connective materials. 4. The implant of claim 2 wherein the scaffold is formed with collagen. 5. The implant of claim 2 wherein the scaffold is formed with submucosal tissue. 6. The implant of claim 2 wherein the scaffold is formed with bone. 7. The implant of claim 2 wherein the scaffold includes a first layer and a second layer. 8. The implant of claim 7 wherein the first layer is made of a first material and the second layer is made of a second material and wherein the first material differs from the second material. 9. The implant of claim 8 wherein the first layer includes bone growth promoting materials. 10. The implant of claim 9 wherein the second layer includes cartilage. 11. The implant of claim 10 wherein the second layer includes cells. 12. The implant of claim 1, wherein said textured material of said inner surface is a porous textured material. 13. The implant of claim 1, wherein said outer surface is fabricated with a material selected from the group consisting of: tantalum, titanium, chromium, zirconium, and aluminum. 14. The implant of claim 1, wherein said outer surface is fabricated with a material selected from the group consisting of: cartilage, embryonal cells, fetal cells, and stem cells. 15. The implant of claim 1, wherein said outer surface is curved to cooperate with a mating articular surface. 16. The implant of claim 1, wherein said outer surface is formed in more than one portion, the portions assembled in the patient. 17. The implant of claim 1, wherein said outer surface is formed with a polymeric material. 18. An implant for implantation in a recess created in a portion of a single articular surface on a bone, the implant comprising: an outer layer including cartilage or a material having at least some properties of cartilage, the outer layer having an outer surface configured and dimensioned to correspond to the size of the portion of a single articular surface, thereby forming a continuation of the articular surface when implanted in the recess; and a base layer, supporting the outer layer, and having an inner surface configured and dimensioned to engage bone tissue when inserted in the recess, the inner surface further including a bone growth promoting substance. 19. The implant of claim 18 further comprising an intermediate layer disposed between the base and outer layers. 20. The implant of claim 18 wherein each of the outer and base layers is formed with a separate scaffold. 21. The implant of claim 18 wherein a single scaffold extends between the outer and base layers. 22. The implant of claim 18 wherein the base layer includes cortical cancellous bone chips or powder. 23. The implant of claim 22 wherein the base layer includes demineralized bone matrix. 24. The implant of claim 18 wherein the base layer includes an anti-inflammatory or an immunosuppressant. 25. The implant of claim 24 wherein the base layer includes bone chips or powder. 26. The implant of claim 18 wherein the outer layer includes stem cells. 27. The implant of claim 18, wherein said inner surface of said base layer has a porous surface. 28. The implant of claim 18, wherein said outer surface is fabricated with a material selected from the group consisting of: tantalum, titanium, chromium, zirconium, and aluminum. 29. The implant of claim 18, wherein said outer surface is fabricated with a material selected from the group consisting of: cartilage, embryonal cells, fetal cells, and stem cells. 30. The implant of claim 18, wherein said inner surface is textured to promote bone ingrowth. 31. The implant of claim 18, wherein said outer layer is curved to cooperate with a mating articular surface. 32. The implant of claim 18, wherein said outer layer is formed in more than one portion, the portions assembled in the patient. 33. The implant of claim 18, wherein said outer surface is formed with a polymeric material. 34. An implant for treatment of a joint, comprising: an articulating load bearing surface replacement sized and dimensioned to be inset into a recess formed by the removal of a portion of an articulating surface of the joint, the load bearing surface having sufficient strength to bear, upon replacement, a load normally borne by the portion of the articulating replaced; and a growth promoting body supporting said surface, and positionable between said surface replacement and bone of the joint, said growth promoting body including a material that promotes tissue ingrowth thereinto, wherein a load applied to the surface replacement is transferrable to bone of the joint through said growth promoting material. 35. The implant of claim 34, wherein said growth promoting body includes a material that promotes osteoinduction. 36. The implant of claim 34, wherein the articulating load bearing surface and said growth promoting body are sized and shaped to be inset into a recess created in tissue of the joint, the joint selected from the group consisting of: toe, ankle, knee, hip, spine, shoulder, elbow, wrist, finger. 37. The implant of claim 36, wherein the articulating load bearing surface and said growth promoting body are sized substantially smaller than the entire articulating surface of a joint compartment into which the implant is inset. 38. The implant of claim 34, wherein the articulating load bearing surface replacement includes a polymeric material. 39. The implant of claim 38, wherein the articulating load bearing surface replacement has a polymeric coating. 40. The implant of claim 34, wherein the articulating load bearing surface replacement includes living tissue. 41. The implant of claim 40, wherein the living tissue is cartilage. 42. The implant of claim 34, wherein the articulating load bearing surface replacement includes a smooth metallic surface. 43. The implant of claim 34, wherein the growth promoting body is a foam metal material selected from the group consisting of: chromium, titanium, tantalum, zirconium, and aluminum. 44. The implant of claim 43, wherein the foam metal material incorporates a bone growth promoting material or a healing agent. 45. The implant of claim 34, wherein the articulating load bearing surface replacement includes a wettable material. 46. The implant of claim 34, wherein the growth promoting body includes ceramic material. 47. The implant of claim 34, further including a guide for controlling formation of the recess. 48. The implant of claim 34, further including a plurality of guides, each of said guides having a different guide surface configuration; wherein a guide may be selected based on a correspondence between said guide surface configuration and the dimensions of the recess formed by the removal of a portion of a single articulating surface of the joint. 49. The implant of claim 34, further including a cutting guide that is custom fabricated based on imaging information of the joint. 50. The implant of claim 34, wherein the implant is sized and dimensioned to be inset into a femur. 51. The implant of claim 34, wherein the implant is sized and dimensioned to be inset into a distal end of a femur. 52. The implant of claim 34, wherein the implant is sized and dimensioned to be inset into a tibia. 53. The implant of claim 34, wherein the implant is sized and dimensioned to be inset into a proximal end of a tibia. 54. The implant of claim 34, wherein the implant is adapted to be adhered to the joint. 55. The implant of claim 34, wherein the implant includes a bone growth promoting material and a cartilage growth promoting material. 56. The implant of claim 34, wherein said material that promotes tissue ingrowth promotes bony tissue ingrowth into said growth promoting body. 57. The implant of claim 34, wherein the growth promoting body includes a porous material along a region of contact between said growth promoting body and bone of the joint. 58. The implant of claim 34, wherein said growth promoting body is operative to promote tissue growth on a surface thereof. 59. The implant of claim 34, wherein said growth promoting body is operative to promote tissue growth into a surface thereof. 60. An implant for treatment of a joint, comprising: a load bearing articulating surface replacement sized and dimensioned to be inset into a recess, the recess formed by the removal of a portion of a bone from an articulating surface of the joint, whereby the articulating surface replacement is dimensioned to be surrounded at least in part by articular cartilage; and a growth promoting body including a material that promotes tissue growth, said growth promoting body connected to at least a portion of said load bearing, articulating surface and positionable in the recess to contact bone below the articulating surface. 61. The implant of claim 60, wherein the growth promoting body includes a metallic material. 62. The implant of claim 60, wherein at least one of the surface replacement and growth promoting body includes a polymeric material. 63. The implant of claim 60, wherein the articulating surface includes at least a replacement portion of a trochlea. 64. The implant of claim 60, wherein the articulating surface includes at least a replacement portion of at least one of a tibia and femur. 65. The implant of claim 61, wherein the surface replacement is a metallic material that includes cobalt chrome. 66. The implant of claim 61, wherein the growth promoting body is a metallic material that includes titanium. 