Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of connective tissue growth factor. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding connective tissue growth factor. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of connective tissue growth factor expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of connective tissue growth factor are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An antisense oligonucleotide 20 nucleobases in length targeted to nucleotides 1707 through 1726 of a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein said antisense oligonucleotide is 100% complementary to said nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor. 2. An antisense oligonucleotide targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein said antisense oligonucleotide consists of the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 39, 40, 59 or 97. 3. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The compound of claim 3 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 6. The compound of claim 5 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 7. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 8. The compound of claim 1 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 9. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 10. The compound of claim 1, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises a first region consisting of at least 5 contiguous 2'-deoxy nucleosides flanked by second and third regions, each of said second and third regions independently consisting of at least one 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleoside. 11. The compound of claim 10 wherein the internucleoside linkages are phosphorothioate throughout. 12. The compound of claim 10 wherein the internucleoside linkages of the first region are phosphorothioate linkages and the internucleoside linkages of the second and third regions are phosphodiester linkages. 13. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 14. The composition of claim 13 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 15. The composition of claim 13 wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 16. An antisense oligonucleotide 20 nucleobases in length targeted to a region comprising nucleotides 1707 through 1726 of a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein said antisense oligonucleotide specifically hybridizes with said nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor and inhibits the expression of connective tissue growth factor. 17. An antisense oligonucleotide targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein said antisense oligonucleotide consists of the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 39. 18. An antisense oligonucleotide targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein said antisense oligonucleotide consists of the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 40. 19. An antisense oligonucleotide 20 nucleobases in length targeted to a region comprising nucleotides 1712 through 1731 of a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein said compound is 100% complementary to said nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor. 20. An antisense oligonucleotide targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein said antisense oligonucleotide consists of the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 59. 21. An antisense oligonucleotide 20 nucleobases in length targeted to a region comprising nucleotides 1711 through 1730 of a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein said compound is 100% complementary to said nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor. 22. An antisense oligonucleotide targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein said antisense oligonucleotide consists of the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 97. 23. An antisense oligonucleotide 20 nucleobases in length targeted to a region comprising nucleotides 1697 through 1716 of a nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor (SEQ ID NO: 18), wherein said compound is 100% complementary to said nucleic acid molecule encoding connective tissue growth factor. 