An ultrasonic non-destructive evaluation (NDE) system operable to inspect target materials is provided. This ultrasonic NDE system includes an articulated robot, an ultrasound inspection head, a processing module, and a control module. The ultrasound inspection head couples to or mounts on the articulated robot. The ultrasound inspection head is operable to deliver a generation laser beam, a detection laser beam, and collect phase modulated light scattered by the target materials. The processing module processes the phase modulated light and produces information about the internal structure of the target materials. The control module directs the articulated robot to position the ultrasound inspection head according to a pre-determined scan plan.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ultrasonic non-destructive evaluation (NDE) system operable to inspect target materials, the system comprising: an articulated robot having an arm with a series of arm members connected to each other by rotary joints, the robot being operably mounted on a platform; an ultrasound inspection head coupled to a distal one of the arm members; collection optics mounted on the inspection head; a fiber-laser-based generation laser source remotely located from the inspection head; a generation laser head mounted on the inspection head and coupled to the generation laser source by an optical fiber for directing a generation laser beam selectively to the target materials from the ultrasound inspection head, so that when the generation laser beam contacts the target materials, ultrasonic displacements are formed thereon, the optical fiber for the generation laser beam extending through at least some of the joints; a fiber-laser-based detection laser source remotely located from the inspection head; a detection laser head mounted on the inspection head and coupled to the detection laser source by an optical fiber for directing a detection laser beam selectively to the target materials, so that when the detection laser beam contacts the ultrasonic displacements formed on the target materials, the detection laser beam is scattered to produce phase modulated light that is reflected to the collection optics, the optical fiber for the detection laser beam extending through at least some of the joints; and a processing module remotely located from the inspection head and coupled to the collection optics by an optical fiber, the processing module being operable to process the phase modulated light and produce information about the internal structure of the target materials, the optical fiber for the processing module extending through at least some of the joints; and a control module operable to direct the arms to position the ultrasound inspection head adjacent but spaced from the target materials according to a scan plan. 2. The ultrasonic NDE system of claim 1, wherein inspection head is connected to said distal one of the arm members by an additional rotary joint, and the inspection head is moveable with respect to the platform by up to six degrees of freedom. 3. The ultrasonic NDE system of claim 1, wherein the platform translates along a rail relative to the target materials. 4. The ultrasonic NDE system of claim 1, wherein the platform comprise a vehicle operable to reposition the platform relative to the target materials. 5. The ultrasonic NDE system of claim 1, wherein the generation laser source, the detection laser source and the processing module are located remote from the arm members. 6. The ultrasonic NDE system of claim 1, further comprising a distributed resources unit containing the generation laser source, the detection laser source and the processing module, wherein the distributed resources and the platform are contained within a mobile transport system. 7. The ultrasonic NDE system of claim 1, wherein the articulated robot is operable to position the ultrasound inspection head within an aircraft fuselage. 8. The ultrasonic NDE system of claim 1, wherein the control module comprises a vision system operable to determine a position and orientation of the target materials relative to the ultrasound inspection head. 9. An ultrasonic non-destructive evaluation (NDE) system for use in inspecting composite target materials, the system comprising: an articulated robot comprising: a platform mount; a first arm member having a proximal end connected to the platform mount by a first rotary joint and moveable about the platform mount by a number of degrees of freedom; a second arm member having a proximal end attached to a distal end of the first arm member by a second rotary joint; a third arm member having a proximal end attached to a distal end of the second arm member by a third rotary joint;; an ultrasound inspection head coupled to a distal end of the third arm member by a fourth rotary joint; a generation laser head mounted in the inspection head a fiber-laser-based generation laser source remotely located from the ultrasound inspection head and the arm members and coupled to the generation laser head by an optical fiber, the optical fiber extending into and out of the second and third rotary joints; a detection laser head mounted in the inspection head; a fiber-laser-based detection laser source remotely located from the ultrasound inspection head and the arm members and coupled to the detection laser head by an optical fiber, the optical fiber for the detection laser source extending into and out of the second and third rotary joints; collection optics in the ultrasound inspection head; a processing module remotely located from the ultrasound inspection head and the arm members and coupled to the collection optics by an optical fiber, the optical fiber for the collection optics extending into and out of the second and third rotary joints; and a control module remotely located from the ultrasound inspection head and the arm members for controlling movement of the arm members so as to position the ultrasound inspection head adjacent to the composite target materials. 10. The ultrasonic NDE system of claim 9, wherein the platform mount is set on a surface and the generation laser and detection laser are on the surface. 11. The ultrasonic NDE system of claim 9, further comprising a position measuring system mounted to the inspection head and operable to determine the position and orientation of the target materials relative to the ultrasound inspection head. 12. The ultrasonic NDE system of claim 9 wherein the detection laser comprises: a master oscillator operable to generate a seed laser beam; and at least one diode pumped laser amplifier operable to amplify the seed laser beam, wherein at least the master oscillator or the at least one diode pumped laser amplifier comprises diode pumped fiber and wherein the master oscillator or the at least one diode pumped laser amplifier of the detection laser comprises a diode pumped slab laser. 13. The ultrasonic NDE system of claim 9 wherein the generation laser includes a laser beam pumping at least one optical parametric oscillator with or without optical parametric amplifiers. 14. A method of conducting an ultrasonic non-destructive evaluation (NDE) on composite target materials comprising: a) providing a robot having a series of arm members connected together by rotary joints and coupled on a proximal end to a platform mount; b) mounting an ultrasonic inspection head to a distal end of the arm members by an additional rotary joint, the inspection head having a generation laser head, a detection laser head, and collection optics; c) mounting a laser-fiber-based generation laser source, a laser-fiber-based detection laser source, and a processing module remote from the inspection head and, by optical fibers, connecting the generation laser source to the generation laser head, the detection laser source to the detection laser head, and the processing module to the collection optics, the optical fibers extending into and out of at least some of the rotary joints; d) moving the distal end of the arm members and positioning the inspection head adjacent to the target materials; e) forming ultrasonic displacements on the target materials by directing a generation laser beam to the target materials from the generation laser source through at least one of the optical fibers and out the generation laser head; f) phase modulating light by directing a detection laser beam at the ultrasonic displacements from the detection laser source through at least one of the optical fibers and out the detection laser head; g) collecting the phase modulated light through the collection optics and delivering the collected phase modulated light through at least one of the optical fibers to the processing module; and h) with the processing module, processing the phase modulated light to determine information about the target. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising after step (h), repositioning the the distal end of the arm members by independly moving at least some of the arm members relative to others of the arm members and repeating steps (e)-(h). 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising moving the distal end of the arm members in six degrees movement. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the target materials comprise a san aircraft having a fuselage, the method further comprising transporting the entire robot into an interior of the fuselage and repeating steps (e)-(h). 