Assays are provided for the screening and classification of biologically active agents that alter the conformation of conformationally defective proteins. The methods of the invention find use in the identification and classification of agents with chaperone activity, particularly the identification and classification of small molecule chemical and pharmacological chaperones. The agents thus identified find use altering the conformation of otherwise conformationally defective proteins.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of screening a candidate agent for chaperone activity, the method comprising: combining a candidate biologically active agent with a cell comprising genetic sequences encoding an S-tagged conformationally defective protein of interest wherein said S-tag of said S-tagged conformationally defective protein of interest comprises at least three S-tag sequences; culturing said cell under conditions wherein said S-tagged conformationally defective protein of interest is expressed; contacting said cells with S-protein and an RNAse cleavage substrate; detecting cleavage of said substrate; and determining the chaperone activity of said candidate biologically active agent, wherein an agent that alters folding of said protein results in increased secretion or expression of said protein on the cell surface and increased cleavage of said substrate. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said S-tag is introduced between S895 and T896 of .DELTA.F508-cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). 3. A method of screening a candidate agent for chaperone activity, the method comprising: combining a candidate biologically active agent with a cell comprising genetic sequences encoding an S-tagged conformationally defective protein of interest, wherein said S-tag comprises three S-tag sequences; culturing said cell under conditions wherein said S-tagged conformationally defective protein of interest is expressed; contacting said cells with S-protein and an RNAse cleavage substrate; detecting cleavage of said substrate; determining the chaperone activity of said candidate biologically active agent, wherein an agent that alters folding of said protein results in increased secretion or expression of said protein on the cell surface and increased cleavage of said substrate. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein said conformationally defective protein of interest is a human protein. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein said conformationally defective protein of interest is a conformationally defective mutant of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein said conformationally defective protein of interest is .DELTA.F508-CFTR. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein said S-tag is introduced into the 4.sup.th extracellular loop of said .DELTA.F508-CFTR. 