A wireless sensor is provided to obtain information relating to vibration of wafers or substrates in a semiconductor processing system. In one exemplary embodiment, a wireless substrate-like sensor is provided and includes a power source adapted to provide power to the sensor, a wireless communication module coupled to the power source, and a controller coupled to the power source and the wireless communication module. An acceleration detection component is operably coupled to the controller to provide information relative to acceleration of the sensor in three axes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wireless substrate-like sensor comprising: a power source adapted to provide power to the sensor; a wireless communication module coupled to the power source; a controller coupled to the power source and the wireless communication module; and an acceleration detection component operably coupled to the controller to provide acceleration information relative to acceleration of the sensor in three axes, wherein the acceleration detection component is configured to provide acceleration information with respect to three directions corresponding to the three axes, the three directions being orthogonal to each other. 2. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the wireless communication module is configured for substantially real-time transmission of the acceleration information to a remote device. 3. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the acceleration detection component comprises a three-axis accelerometer configured to provide acceleration information relative to each of the three directions. 4. The sensor of claim 3, wherein the three-axis accelerometer comprises a microelectromechanical system (MEMS) accelerometer. 5. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the acceleration detection component comprises a plurality of single axis accelerometers, wherein at least one single axis accelerometer is configured to provide acceleration information relative to each of the three directions. 6. The sensor of claim 5, wherein the plurality of single axis accelerometers comprise microelectromechanical system (MEMS) accelerometers. 7. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the acceleration detection component comprises a plurality of accelerometers, wherein each accelerometer is a single-axis accelerometer or a dual-axis accelerometer configured to provide acceleration information relative to one or more axes. 8. The sensor of claim 1, and fUrther comprising a data storage component configured to store data received from the acceleration detection component in data packets, wherein the data packets are transmitted by the wireless communication module to an external device and contain data representing the acceleration information. 9. The sensor of claim 8, and further comprising a processor configured to perform spectrum analysis of the data provided by the acceleration detection component. 10. The sensor of claim 9, wherein the processor is disposed on the sensor. 11. A carrier configured to carry a plurality of substrates, the carrier comprising: a plurality of slots, each slot being configured to carry a respective substrate; and a sensor disposed within the carrier to transduce acceleration to which the carrier is subjected, the sensor having a wireless communication module for providing information relative to the acceleration, wherein the sensor comprises: a power source adapted to provide power to the sensor; a controller coupled to the power source and wireless communication module; and one or more accelerometers configured to provide acceleration information to the controller relative to acceleration of the sensor in three axes wherein the one or more accelerometers are configured to provide acceleration information with respect to three directions that correspond to the three axes, wherein the three directions are substantially orthogonal to each other. 12. The carrier of claim 11, wherein the carrier is a Front Opening Unified Pod (FOUP) configured to carry a plurality of substrates. 13. The carrier of claim 11, wherein the wireless communication module is configured for substantially real-time transmission of the acceleration information to a remote device. 14. A method for obtaining information indicative of vibration with a sensor within a semiconductor processing environment, the method comprising: a) providing at least one accelerometer associated with the sensor and configured to obtain information relating to acceleration of the sensor; b) utilizing the at least one accelerometer to obtain acceleration information relating to acceleration of the sensor relative to three axes that are substantially orthogonal; c) processing the acceleration information within the sensor; and d) transmitting the acceleration information with the sensor to a device that is remote from the sensor, wherein steps (b) and (d) occur in substantially real-time. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein step c) comprises receiving the acceleration information and forming data packets representing a portion of the acceleration information, and wherein step d) comprises transmitting the data packets to the remote device. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein step c) comprises utilizing a processor within the sensor to perform spectrum analysis on the acceleration information. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the sensor is a substrate-like sensor. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the sensor is mounted on or is proximate to a Front Opening Unified Pod (FOUP) configured to carry a plurality of substrates. 