Well bore servicing equipment is provided. The well bore servicing equipment comprises a first manipulator to grip a well bore work string, to raise the work string, and to lower the work string. The well bore servicing equipment further comprises a controller to receive a work string trajectory input and to automatically control the first manipulator to raise and lower the work string substantially in conformance with the work string trajectory input.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Well bore servicing equipment, comprising: a first manipulator operable to grip a well bore work string, to raise the work string, and to lower the work string; and a controller to receive a work string trajectory input from a user interface and to automatically control the first manipulator to raise and to lower the work string substantially in conformance with the work string trajectory input, wherein the work string trajectory input comprises at least a first work string target position and a first work string target velocity, wherein the first manipulator comprises a first hydraulic actuator, wherein the controller comprises a drive observer that provides an estimated actuator parameter feedback value that is smoothed and substantially zero time lagged based on sensor information received from the actuator, and wherein the controller automatically controls the first manipulator based in part on the estimated actuator parameter feedback value. 2. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 1, wherein the work string trajectory input comprises an ordered sequence of target pairs, wherein each target pair comprises a work string target position and a work string target velocity, and wherein the controller controls the first manipulator to drive the work string to each of the work string target positions at the work string target velocity associated with the work string target position in the ordered sequence. 3. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 1, wherein the first manipulator comprises a first slip bowl to grip the work string and the first hydraulic actuator to exert force on the work string via the first slip bowl to raise and to lower the work string. 4. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 3, wherein the first hydraulic actuator further comprises a hydraulic axial piston pump and wherein the controller controls the flow rate of the hydraulic axial piston pump, whereby the controller controls in part the first manipulator. 5. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 3, wherein the first manipulator further comprises: a second hydraulic actuator to exert force on the work string via the first slip bowl to raise and to lower the work string; and a first traveling head that couples the first slip bowl to the first hydraulic actuator and to the second hydraulic actuator. 6. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 1, further including a second manipulator to grip the well bore work string, to raise the work string, and to lower the work string, wherein the controller further automatically controls the second manipulator to raise and to lower the work string substantially in conformance with the work string trajectory input. 7. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 6, further including a collar detector to detect a collar location of the work string. 8. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 7, wherein the controller coordinates control of the first manipulator and the second manipulator to provide substantially continuous movement of the work string in accordance with the work string trajectory input and to avoid one of the first manipulator and the second manipulator gripping the work string at the collar location of the work string, whereby increased operational speed is achieved. 9. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 1, wherein the controller comprises a first manipulator controller to provide a first manipulator force command based on a feedback associated with the first manipulator, based on a model of the first manipulator, and based on a first manipulator command trajectory that is based on the work string trajectory input. 10. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 1, wherein the first manipulator comprises an actuator and wherein the controller comprises a first drive modulator to map a first manipulator force command and a first manipulator velocity command to an actuator control signal. 11. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 10, wherein the first drive modulator maps the first manipulator force command and the first manipulator velocity command to the actuator control signal based on feedback associated with the actuator and based on a model of the actuator. 12. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 1, wherein the drive observer system provides an estimated hydraulic pressure parameter feedback value of a hydraulic chamber of the hydraulic actuator based in part on a model of the hydraulic actuator. 13. Well bore servicing equipment, comprising: a first manipulator operable to grip a well bore work string, to raise the work string, and to lower the work string, wherein the first manipulator comprises a hydraulic actuator; and a controller to receive a work string trajectory input and to automatically control the first manipulator to raise and to lower the work string substantially in conformance with the work string trajectory input, wherein the controller comprises a drive observer that provides an estimated actuator parameter feedback value that is smoothed and substantially zero time lagged based on sensor information received from the actuator, wherein the controller automatically controls the first manipulator based in part on the estimated actuator parameter feedback value, and wherein the drive observer system provides an estimated hydraulic pressure parameter feedback value of a hydraulic chamber of the hydraulic actuator based in part on a model of the hydraulic actuator, and wherein the model is based on an estimated effective piston area, an estimated hydraulic fluid bulk modulus, and an estimated variable hydraulic chamber volume. 14. Well bore servicing equipment, comprising: a first manipulator operable to grip a well bore work string, to raise the work string, and to lower the work string, wherein the first manipulator comprises a hydraulic actuator; and a controller to receive a work string trajectory input and to automatically control the first manipulator to raise and to lower the work string substantially in conformance with the work string trajectory input, wherein the controller comprises a drive observer that provides an estimated flow disturbance value that is smoothed and based on sensor information received from the actuator, wherein the controller automatically controls the first manipulator based in part on the estimated flow disturbance value. 15. Well bore servicing equipment, comprising: a first manipulator operable to grip a well bore work string, to raise the work string, and to lower the work string; and a controller to receive a work string trajectory input from a user interface and to automatically control the first manipulator to raise and to lower the work string substantially in conformance with the work string trajectory input, wherein the work string trajectory comprises at least a first work string target position and a first work string target velocity, wherein the first manipulator comprises an actuator, wherein the controller comprises a manipulator observer that provides an estimated actuator position feedback value that is smoothed and substantially zero time lagged based on actuator position sensor information received from the actuator, and wherein the controller automatically controls the first manipulator based in part on the estimated actuator position feedback value. 16. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 15, wherein the manipulator observer further provides an estimated actuator velocity feedback value that is smoothed and substantially zero time lagged based on actuator velocity sensor information received from the actuator, wherein the controller automatically controls the first manipulator based in part on the estimated actuator velocity feedback value. 17. Well bore servicing equipment, comprising: a first manipulator operable to grip a well bore work string, to raise the work string, and to lower the work string, wherein the first manipulator comprises an actuator and a force coupling component to couple force output by the actuator to the work string; and a controller to receive a work string trajectory input and to automatically control the first manipulator to raise and to lower the work string substantially in conformance with the work string trajectory input, wherein the controller comprises a manipulator observer that provides an estimated actuator position feedback value that is smoothed and substantially zero time lagged based on actuator position sensor information received from the actuator, wherein the manipulator observer provides the estimated actuator position feedback value based in part on a model of the force coupling component, and wherein the controller automatically controls the first manipulator based in part on the estimated actuator position feedback value. 18. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 17, wherein the model is based on an estimated mass of the force coupling component, an estimated weight of the force coupling component, and an estimated damping factor of the force coupling component. 19. The well bore servicing equipment of claim 18, wherein the model is further based on an estimated friction of the force coupling component moving within a restraint mechanism. 20. Well bore servicing equipment, comprising: a first manipulator operable to grip a well bore work string, to raise the work string, and to lower the work string, wherein the first manipulator comprises an actuator; and a controller to receive a work string trajectory input and to automatically control the first manipulator to raise and to lower the work string substantially in conformance with the work string trajectory input, wherein the controller comprises a manipulator observer that provides an estimated disturbance force feedback value that is smoothed and based on actuator position sensor information received from the actuator, wherein the controller automatically controls the first manipulator based in part on the estimated disturbance force feedback value. 