A serpentine robotic crawler capable of multiple movement moves is disclosed. The serpentine robotic crawler includes a plurality of frame units, coupled together by at least one actuated linkage. Each frame unit includes a continuous track, enabling forward movement of the serpentine robotic crawler. The at least one actuated linkage has at least 7 degrees of movement freedom, enabling the serpentine robotic crawler to adopt a variety of poses.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A serpentine robotic crawler comprising: a first frame having a first continuous track rotatably supported by the first frame; a first wrist-like actuated linkage coupled to the first frame wherein the first wrist-like actuated linkage provides rotational movement about a longitudinal axis and bending movement about two different lateral axes; an elbow-like actuated joint coupled to the first wrist-like actuated linkage wherein the elbow-like actuated joint provides bending movement about a lateral axis; a second wrist-like actuated linkage coupled to the elbow-like actuated joint wherein the second wrist-like actuated linkage provides rotational movement about a longitudinal axis and bending movement about two different lateral axes; and a second frame coupled to the second wrist-like actuated linkage and having a second continuous track rotatably supported by the second frame. 2. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the two different lateral axes of the wrist-like actuated linkages are at substantially right angles to each other. 3. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the wrist-like actuated linkage comprises: a first yaw arm coupled to the first frame through a first yaw bending joint providing yaw bending about a lateral axis oriented substantially vertically relative to a nominal operating position of the first frame; a first pitch arm coupled to the yaw arm through a first pitch bending joint providing pitch bending about a lateral axis oriented substantially horizontally relative to the nominal operating position of the first frame; and a first rotational joint coupled to the first pitch arm. 4. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the wrist-like actuated linkage comprises: a first bending joint providing yaw bending about a substantially vertical axis relative to a nominal operating position of the first continuous track; a second bending joint providing pitch bending about a first substantially horizontal axis relative to the nominal operating position of the first continuous track; and a rotational joint providing roll rotation about a second axis, the second axis substantially orthogonal to the first substantially horizontal axis 5. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the frame partially encloses the continuous track providing exposed portions of the continuous track along a bottom portion and along a top portion of the frame. 6. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the frame substantially encloses the continuous track except for an exposed portion of the continuous track along a bottom portion of the frame. 7. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the frame comprises a drive coupled to the continuous track. 8. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 1, further comprising a control subsystem in communication with each of the first and second wrist-like actuated linkages and the elbow-like actuated joint and configured to control the pose of serpentine robotic crawler. 9. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 8, further comprising a communication network configured to exchange communication between the control subsystem and each of the first and second wrist-like actuated linkages and the elbow-like actuated joint. 10. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 8 wherein the control subsystem is also in communication with a first drive and a second drive respectively coupled to the first continuous track and second continuous track. 11. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 8 wherein the control subsystem is further configured to control compliance of the first and second wrist-like actuated linkages and the elbow-like actuated joint. 12. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 8 wherein the control subsystem comprises a replica master. 13. A serpentine robotic crawler comprising: at least two frame units each having a continuous track rotatably supported therein; at least one multi-degree of freedom linkage arm coupled between the frame units to form a train of frame units, the at least one actuated multi-degree of freedom linkage arm comprising a series coupled combination of at least seven actuated joints. 14. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 13 wherein the at least seven actuated joints comprises a series coupled combination of at least seven rotary joints. 15. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 13 wherein the at least seven actuated joints comprises a series coupled combination of at least seven bending joints. 16. The serpentine robotic crawler of claim 13 wherein the at least seven actuated joints comprises a series coupled combination of five bending joints and two rotary joints. 