Disclosed herein are apparatuses and methods for conducting multiple simultaneous micro-volume chemical and biochemical reactions in an array format. In one embodiment, the format comprises an array of microholes in a substrate. Besides serving as an ordered array of sample chambers allowing the performance of multiple parallel reactions, the arrays can be used for reagent storage and transfer, library display, reagent synthesis, assembly of multiple identical reactions, dilution and desalting. Use of the arrays facilitates optical analysis of reactions, and allows optical analysis to be conducted in real time. Included within the invention are kits comprising a microhole apparatus and a reaction component of the method(s) to be carried out in the apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for simultaneously conducting a plurality of micro-volume polynucleotide amplification reactions, the method comprising: (a) introducing a plurality of liquid samples into the sample chambers of a microhole apparatus, whereby the chambers contain necessary polynucleotide amplification reaction components; (b) protecting the samples from evaporation by submerging the microhole apparatus in a hydrophobic medium during the plurality of micro-volume polynucleotide amplification reactions; and (c) placing the apparatus into an environment favorable to the polynucleotide amplification reaction; wherein the microhole apparatus comprises a substrate, wherein the substrate is solid and defines a plurality of sample chambers, wherein each sample chamber: (i) extends through the substrate; (ii) comprises one or more walls and an opening at each end; and (iii) holds a sample such that the sample is retained in the apparatus through surface tension and such that (i) a liquid sample present in one sample chamber does not intermix with a liquid sample present in another sample chamber and (ii) the liquid samples are maintained in the sample chambers when the microhole device is submerged in a hydrophobic medium for a polynucleotide amplification reaction. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the polynucleotide amplification is a polymerase chain reaction. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the microhole apparatus is a titanium substrate. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophobic medium is an oil. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein the oil is mineral oil. 6. A method according to claim 4, wherein the oil is silicone oil. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein the micro-volume polynucleotide amplification reactions are optically monitored. 