A tube over tube joint for an implement frame includes a self-fixturing weldable connector positioned between upper and lower tubes. Standard fillet welds connect the tubes to the connector. A unitary casting can be used made from material selected to optimize load transfer between the top and bottom tubes to improve the fatigue life of the joint. The casting is self-fixturing so the top tubes can be located by simply placing in the casting on the lower tubes. A tube end connector provides fixturing and weld surfaces for butt joints in planar frames. Outwardly extended weld edges on the connector increase resistance to parallelogramming.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An agricultural implement frame comprising: a first frame tube of rectangular cross section; a second frame tube of rectangular cross section; the first and second frame tubes each having lengths and opposed side walls connected at corners by upper and lower walls; and a self-fixturing permanent connection located at a joint location between the first and second frame tubes, the permanent connection including a weldable connector insertible between the first and second frame tubes along the lengths of the tubes inwardly of ends of the tubes and having an upwardly directed channel with planar upright walls having uppermost edges terminating adjacent the first frame tube side walls adjacent central locations on the side walls of the first frame tube between the upper and lower walls of the first frame tube, wherein the planar upright walls contact and are parallel to the side walls of the first frame tube, the weldable connector including a downwardly open channel, the upwardly directed channel conforming generally to the shape of a lower portion of first frame tube, and the downwardly opening channel conforming generally to the shape of an upper portion of the second frame tube, wherein the connector functions as a fixture to locate the first and second frame tubes relative to each other during assembly, wherein the first frame tube is welded at the central locations to the uppermost edges and is substantially devoid of welds adjacent the corners for welding access and distribution of frame tube load and stress. 2. The implement frame as set forth in claim 1 wherein the downwardly open channel includes opposite pairs of bifurcated leg portions having generally planar inside surfaces parallel to the side walls of the second tube and defining the downwardly open channel. 3. The implement frame as set forth in claim 2 further including arc-shaped top portions separating the leg portions. 4. The implement frame as set forth in claim 2 wherein the leg portions are flanged. 5. The implement frame as set forth in claim 4 wherein the connector is open between the downwardly open channel and the upwardly directed channel between the opposite leg portions. 6. The implement frame as set forth in claim 2 wherein the leg portions are welded to the side walls of the second frame tube at locations offset from the corners of the side walls of the second frame tube. 7. The implement frame as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of the uppermost edges is welded at two offset locations to the first frame tube. 8. The implement frame as set forth in claim 7 including a paint drainage notch centrally located between the offset locations of each uppermost edge and separating the two offset locations. 9. The implement frame as set forth in claim 1 wherein the first frame tube is perpendicular to the second frame tube. 