A pipette nozzle is provided for use on a movable arm on an automated pipette machine. The pipette nozzle includes a body defining a passage therethrough and having at least two seating surfaces provided on the body. The first seating surface is configured to receive and sealingly mate with a first size of pipette tip in a manner such that the first end of the passage is in fluid communication with the first size of pipette tip. The second seating surface is configured to correspondingly receive, sealingly mate and provide passage first end fluid communication with a second size of pipette tip. There is also provided an automated pipette machine which includes a tip ejector system including an arm that is movable between a first position and a second position wherein in the first position the arm is positioned to engage the tip during movement of the nozzle along a selected path and to prevent movement of the tip along the selected path while permitting the nozzle to move along the selected path, so that the movement of the nozzle along the selected path causes the nozzle and the tip to disengage from each other, and wherein in the second position the arm is positioned to avoid engagement with the tip during movement of the nozzle.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A tip ejector system for use on an automated pipette machine to eject a pipette tip from a pipette nozzle on the machine, the tip ejector system comprising: an arm that is rotatable in a horizontal plane between a first position and a second position, wherein in the first position the arm is positioned to engage the tip during movement of the nozzle along a selected path and to prevent movement of the tip along said selected path while permitting the nozzle to move along said selected path, so that said movement of the nozzle along said selected path causes said nozzle and said tip to disengage from each other, wherein in the second position the arm is positioned to avoid engagement with the tip during movement of the nozzle, wherein the arm defines a slot, and wherein the slot has a selected width that is sufficiently large to fit a first portion of the pipette nozzle and sufficiently small to prevent pass-through of at least one portion of the tip. 2. A tip ejector as claimed in claim 1, wherein the slot is a first slot and said pipette tip is a first pipette tip, and wherein the arm has at least a second slot, wherein the second slot has a different width than the first slot, wherein the second slot has a selected second width that is sufficiently large to fit a second portion of the pipette nozzle and sufficiently small to prevent pass-through of the at least a portion of a second tip. 3. A tip ejector as claimed in claim 1, wherein the automated pipette machine includes a carousel, wherein the carousel has a plurality of pipette receptacles, wherein the first position of the arm is selectable based on the position of the receptacle into which the pipette tip is to be ejected. 4. An automated pipette machine, comprising: A. a movable carousel having a plurality of pipette receptacles; B. a movable pipette machine arm with a pipette nozzle, the pipette nozzle including: a body defining a passage there through; and at least two seating surfaces on the body, including a first seating surface and a second seating surface, wherein the first seating surface is configured to receive and sealingly mate with a first size of pipette tip in a manner such that the passage is in fluid communication with the first size of pipette tip, and wherein the second seating surface is configured to receive and sealingly mate with a second size of pipette tip in a manner such that the passage is in fluid communication with the second size of pipette tip; and C. a tip ejector system including: a tip ejector arm that is movable between a first position and a second position, wherein in the first position the tip ejector arm is positioned to engage the tip during movement of the nozzle along a selected path and to prevent movement of the tip along said selected path while permitting the nozzle to move along said selected path, so that said movement of the nozzle along said selected path causes said nozzle and said tip to disengage from each other, and wherein in the second position the tip ejector arm is positioned to avoid engagement with the tip during movement of the nozzle. 5. An automated pipette machine as claimed in claim 4, wherein the tip ejector arm rotates in a horizontal plane between the first and second positions. 6. An automated pipette machine as claimed in claim 5, wherein the tip ejector arm defines a slot, wherein the slot has a selected width that is sufficiently large to fit the first seating surface of the pipette nozzle and sufficiently small to prevent pass-through of at least a portion of the tip. 7. An automated pipette machine as claimed in claim 6, wherein the slot is a first slot and said pipette tip is a first pipette tip, and wherein the tip ejector arm has at least a second slot, wherein the second slot has a different width than the first slot, wherein the second slot has a selected second width that is sufficiently large to fit the second seating surface of the pipette nozzle and sufficiently small to prevent pass-through of the at least a portion of a second tip. 8. An automated pipette machine as claimed in claim 4, wherein the first position of the tip ejector arm is selectable based on the position of the pipette receptacle into which the pipette tip is to be ejected. 