An apparatus associated with a cable robot system is provided. In one embodiment, the apparatus includes: an end-effector platform adapted to be positioned and maneuvered within a three-dimensional (3D) workspace, three vertical support members adapted to be positioned outside the 3D workspace, and three adjustable cables adapted to be routed from each vertical support member and releasably secured to the end-effector platform to apply upward and downward tension to the end-effector platform. The adjustable cables are adapted to be adjustably extended and retracted in a coordinated fashion to maneuver the end-effector platform such that an adjustable portion of each adjustable cable spans from the corresponding vertical support member to the end-effector platform. At least two of the adjustable portions associated with each vertical support member are generally in parallel relation to each other.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus, including: an end-effector platform positioned and maneuvered within a three-dimensional workspace; at least three vertical support members positioned outside the three-dimensional workspace; at least three adjustable cables routed from each vertical support member and releasably secured to the end-effector platform to apply upward and downward tension to the end-effector platform, wherein the adjustable cables are adjustably extendable and retractable in a coordinated fashion to maneuver the end-effector platform such that an adjustable portion of each adjustable cable spans from the corresponding vertical support member to the end-effector platform, wherein at least two of the adjustable portions associated with each vertical support member are generally in parallel relation to each other; and respective first and second cable guides, movably secured to at least one of the vertical support members, routing the two adjustable cables having the generally parallel adjustable portions, the first and second cable guides being adjustably raisable and lowerable along the respective vertical support member. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the two adjustable portions in parallel relation to each other form opposite sides of an adaptive parallelogram. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the adjustable cables are routed from the vertical support members and releasably secured to the end-effector platform to generally limit rotation of the end-effector platform. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further including: a respective third cable guide on the at least one of the vertical support members, routing the third adjustable cable. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the first and second cable guides are horizontally spaced from each other. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the corresponding first and second adjustable cables apply at least a portion of the downward tension to the end-effector platform and the third adjustable cable applies at least a portion of the upward tension to the end-effector platform. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the first and second adjustable cables apply at least a portion of the upward tension to the end-effector platform and the third adjustable cable applies at least a portion of the downward tension to the end-effector platform. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the third cable guide is adjustably raised and lowered along the corresponding vertical support member. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the vertical support members are generally proportionately spaced outside the three-dimensional workspace. 10. An apparatus, including: an end-effector platform positioned within a three-dimensional workspace maneuverable within the three-dimensional workspace; three vertical support members positioned outside the three-dimensional workspace; three adjustable cables routed from each vertical support member and releasably secured to the end-effector platform to apply upward and downward tension to the end-effector platform, wherein the adjustable cables are adjustably extendable and raisable in a coordinated fashion to maneuver the end-effector platform such that an adjustable portion of each adjustable cable spans from the corresponding vertical support member to the end-effector platform, wherein two adjustable portions associated with each vertical support member are generally in parallel relation to each other; and respective first, second, and third cable guides, secured to each of the vertical support members, respectively routing the first, second, and third adjustable cables associated with the corresponding vertical support member, at least one of i) the first and second cable guides being movably secured to the corresponding vertical support member and adjustably raised and lowered, relative to the respective third cable guide, along the corresponding vertical support member and ii) the third cable guide being movably secured to the corresponding vertical support member and adjustably raisable and lowerable, relative to the respective first and second cable guides, along the corresponding vertical support member. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the two adjustable portions are in parallel relation to each other form opposite sides of an adaptive parallelogram. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first and second cable guides are horizontally spaced from each other, said corresponding first and second adjustable cables being the adjustable cables associated with the corresponding vertical support member that have adjustable portions in parallel relation to each other. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the corresponding first and second adjustable cables apply at least a portion of the downward tension to the end-effector platform and the third adjustable cable applies at least a portion of the upward tension to the end-effector platform. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the first and second adjustable cables apply at least a portion of the upward tension to the end-effector platform and the third adjustable cable applies at least a portion of the downward tension to the end-effector platform. 15. The apparatus of claim 10, further including: a fourth vertical support member positioned outside the three-dimensional workspace, wherein the vertical support members are spaced around the outside of the three-dimensional workspace in a generally rectangular pattern. 16. The apparatus of claim 10, further including: a fourth vertical support member positioned outside the three-dimensional workspace, wherein the vertical support members are spaced around the outside of the three-dimensional workspace in a generally square pattern. 17. A method, including: a) positioning an end-effector platform within a three-dimensional workspace; b) positioning at least three vertical support members outside the three-dimensional workspace; c) routing at least three adjustable cables from each vertical support member and releasably securing each adjustable cable to the end-effector platform to respectively apply upward or downward tensions to the platform; d) adjustably extending and retracting the adjustable cables in a coordinated fashion to maneuver the end-effector platform such that an adjustable portion of each adjustable cable spans from the corresponding vertical support member to the end-effector platform, wherein at least two of the adjustable portions associated with each vertical support member are generally in parallel relation to each other; e) respectively routing first, second, and third adjustable cables of the at least three adjustable cables associated with at least one vertical support member through first, second, and third cable guides associated with the at least one vertical support member; and f) adjustably raising and lowering at least one of the cable guides along the corresponding vertical support member. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the adjustably extending in d) includes: forming opposite sides of an adaptive parallelogram from the two adjustable portions generally in parallel relation to each other. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the routing and securing in c) include: generally limiting rotation of the end-effector platform in conjunction with the extending and retracting in d). 20. The method of claim 17, further including: g) horizontally spacing the first and second cable guides from each other, said corresponding first and second adjustable cables being the adjustable cables associated with the at least one vertical support member that have adjustable portions in parallel relation to each other. 21. The method of claim 20, further including: h) applying at least a portion of the downward tension in c) via the corresponding first and second adjustable cables; and i) applying at least a portion of the upward tension in c) via the corresponding third adjustable cable. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the adjustably raising and lowering of f) includes: j) adjustably raising and lowering the first and second cable guides along the corresponding vertical support member. 23. The method of claim 20, further including: h) applying at least a portion of the upward tension in c) via the first and second adjustable cables; and i) applying at least a portion of the downward tension in c) via the corresponding third adjustable cable. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the adjustably raising and lowering of f) includes: j) adjustably raising and lowering the third cable guide along the corresponding vertical support member. 25. The method of claim 17, further including: g) generally proportionately spacing the vertical support members outside the three-dimensional workspace. 