Provided is a printing system for producing wallpaper. The printing system includes a frame, a cabinet on the frame, the cabinet configured to receive replaceable ink reservoirs and cartridges of blank wallpaper, and a pagewidth printhead arranged on the frame for printing images on the blank wallpaper. Also included are pilot guides for guiding the blank wallpaper fed from the cartridges via a media path defined in the cabinet past the pagewidth printhead to facilitate printing, and a dryer module configured to dry the printed wallpaper. The system further has a cutter module for cutting the printed wallpaper before the printed wallpaper is fed into a container which stores the wallpaper in a roll, and a data capture device configured to capture the identity of an identifier carried by a print sample. The printhead is configured, subsequent to the capture of the identity of the print sample, to print the pattern which corresponds to the print sample.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printing system comprising: a frame; a cabinet on the frame, the cabinet configured to receive replaceable ink reservoirs and cartridges of blank media; a pagewidth printhead arranged on the frame for printing images on the blank media; pilot guides for guiding the blank media fed from the cartridges via a media path defined in the cabinet past the pagewidth printhead to facilitate printing; a dryer module configured to dry the printed media; a cutter module for selectively cutting the printed media at selected lengths and widths before the printed media is fed into a container which stores the media in a roll; and a data capture device configured to capture the identity of an identifier carried by a print sample and the printhead being configured, subsequent to the capture of the identity of the print sample, to print the pattern which corresponds to the print sample, and to capture a length and width of the printed pattern selected by a user of the printing system at which the cutter module cuts the printed media. 2. The printing system of claim 1, which includes a feed system for feeding the media through the media path facilitated by the pilot guides. 3. The printing system of claim 1, having a heated platen positioned in the media path downstream of the pilot guides for heating the blank media prior to printing. 4. The printing system of claim 1, wherein the printhead is supplied with liquid ink from the reservoirs which are located above the printhead, said reservoirs having a harness with a number of ink supply tubes for carrying different ink colors from the reservoirs to the printhead. 5. The printing system of claim 1, wherein the dryer is configured so that the media operatively traverses a catenary path within a drying compartment of the dryer after printing to provide additional path length and drying time before the printed media is fed into the container. 6. The printing system of claim 5, wherein the dryer includes one or more centrifugal fans to provide a supply of air through a chamber across one or more heating elements that are controlled by a thermal sensor. 7. The printing system of claim 1, wherein the cutter module includes a frame having end plates with a pair of entry rollers and a pair of exit rollers serving as a transport mechanism for the media through the module, with a slitter gang located between the end plates. 