Molecular memories, i.e., memories that incorporate molecules for charge storage, are disclosed. Molecular memory cells, molecular memory arrays, and electronic devices including molecular memory are also disclosed, as are processing systems and methods for manufacturing molecular memories. Methods of manufacturing molecular memories that enable semiconductor devices and interconnections to be manufactured monolithically with molecular memory are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A molecular storage device, comprising a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell that includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed storage molecules at a working electrode surface; a counter electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules at a counter electrode surface, wherein the working electrode surface and the counter electrode surface are coplanar with each other; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode and the counter electrode. 2. The molecular storage device of claim 1, wherein the layer of chemisorbed storage molecules and the layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules are coplanar with each other. 3. A molecular storage device, comprising a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell that includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed storage molecules at a working electrode surface; a counter electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules at a counter electrode surface; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode and the counter electrode, wherein the layer of chemisorbed storage molecules is formed by: physically depositing storage molecules on the surface of a partially fabricated semiconductor wafer in a first processing ambient; monitoring water and oxygen gases in the first processing ambient; chemically attaching some of the storage molecules to a plurality of working electrode surfaces on the wafer in a second processing ambient; monitoring water and oxygen gases in the second processing ambient; and removing chemically unattached storage molecules from the wafer. 4. A molecular storage device, comprising a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell that includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed storage molecules at a working electrode surface; a counter electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules at a counter electrode surface; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode and the counter electrode, wherein the layer of chemisorbed storage molecules and the layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules are deposited in an apparatus, comprising: a coating unit configured to deposit the layer of chemisorbed storage molecules and the layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules on a partially fabricated semiconductor wafer; an enclosed chamber that contains the coating unit; one or more gas sensors that monitor one or more gases in the enclosed chamber; and a control system that manages the operation of the coating unit. 5. A memory element, comprising a transistor coupled to a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell, wherein the electrochemical cell includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed storage molecules at a working electrode surface; a counter electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules at a counter electrode surface; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode and the counter electrode. 6. The memory element of claim 5, wherein the layer of chemisorbed storage molecules and the layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules are coplanar with each other. 7. A memory array, comprising an array of memory elements, wherein at least some of the memory elements comprise a transistor coupled to a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell, wherein the electrochemical cell includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed storage molecules at a working electrode surface; a counter electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules at a counter electrode surface; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode and the counter electrode. 8. The memory array of claim 7, wherein the layer of chemisorbed storage molecules and the layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules are coplanar with each other. 9. A computing device, comprising a central processing unit coupled to a molecular memory that includes an array of memory elements, wherein at least some of the memory elements comprise a transistor coupled to a micron or sub-micron size electrochemical cell, wherein the electrochemical cell includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed storage molecules at a working electrode surface; a counter electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules at a counter electrode surface; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode and the counter electrode. 10. The computing device of claim 9, wherein the layer of chemisorbed storage molecules and the layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules are coplanar with each other. 11. A method of reading a molecular memory device, comprising: coupling a bit line to an electrochemical cell, wherein the electrochemical cell includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed storage molecules at a working electrode surface; a counter electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules at a counter electrode surface, wherein the working electrode surface and the counter electrode surface are coplanar with each other; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode and the counter electrode; and monitoring the bit line for changes in potential indicative of the oxidation state of the storage molecules. 12. A method of writing to a molecular memory device, comprising: coupling a bit line to an electrochemical cell, wherein the electrochemical cell includes: a working electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed storage molecules at a working electrode surface; a counter electrode electrically coupled to a layer of chemisorbed redox-active molecules at a counter electrode surface, wherein the working electrode surface and the counter electrode surface are coplanar with each other; and an electrolyte that contacts the working electrode and the counter electrode; and applying a voltage to the bit line to set the oxidation state of the storage molecules. 13. The molecular storage device of claim 3, wherein the working electrode surface and the counter electrode surface are coplanar with each other. 14. The molecular storage device of claim 3, wherein the partially fabricated semiconductor wafer includes a plurality of transistors. 15. The molecular storage device of claim 4, wherein the working electrode surface and the counter electrode surface are coplanar with each other. 16. The molecular storage device of claim 4, wherein the partially fabricated semiconductor wafer includes a plurality of transistors. 17. The memory element of claim 5, wherein the working electrode surface and the counter electrode surface are coplanar with each other. 18. The memory array of claim 7, wherein the working electrode surface and the counter electrode surface are coplanar with each other. 19. The computing device of claim 9, wherein the working electrode surface and the counter electrode surface are coplanar with each other. 