The invention relates to a patient-positioning device for positioning a patient in an irradiation position in a radiation therapy arrangement, in particular in a particle radiation therapy arrangement comprising a patient supporting module, which is provided with a patient supporting device for holding the patient in a body holder where the irradiation is to be carried out, wherein, said patient supporting device is mounted on a base unit in such a way that it is rotatable about an axis by means of a bearing, said base unit is provided with a coupling element, the inventive device is also provided with a positioning arm, which comprises several joints and a coupling point for coupling the coupling element and for freely positioning the patient in any predefined irradiation position by adjusting the angle of rotation of the patient supporting module.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A patient positioning system for positioning a patient in an irradiation position by a radiation therapy system, the patient positioning system comprising: a patient supporting module having: a patient supporting device, wherein the patient supporting device keeps the patient in a posture on which radiation treatment planning was based, a base unit having a coupling element, and a bearing that is connected to the base unit and operable to rotate the patient supporting device with respect to the base unit; and a positioning arm having a plurality of joints and a coupling point for coupling with the coupling element of the base unit, wherein the positioning arm provides positioning of the patient with adjustment of a rotary angle of the patient supporting module in the irradiation position. 2. The patient positioning system as defined by claim 1, wherein the patient supporting device is a gurney or patient chair. 3. The patient positioning system as defined by claim 1, wherein the patient supporting module has a motor for driving the bearing, the bearing being embodied annularly. 4. The patient positioning system as defined by claim 1, wherein the positioning arm is movable about a plurality of axes by the plurality of joints. 5. The patient positioning system as defined by claim 1, wherein the patient supporting module has a mechanical shield for protecting the extremities of the patient. 6. The patient positioning system as defined by claim 5, wherein the shield has at least one sensor, which upon activation trips stoppage of motion. 7. The patient positioning system as defined by claim 6, wherein the sensor is a pressure sensor, which is activated by a pressure exerted by of contact with an external object. 8. The patient positioning system of claim 1, wherein the positioning arm and plurality of joints comprise a robot arm. 9. The patient positioning system of claim 1, wherein the radiation therapy system comprises a particle beam therapy system. 10. The patient positioning system as defined by claim 2, wherein the patient supporting module has a motor for driving the bearing, the bearing being embodied annularly. 11. The patient positioning system as defined by claim 10, wherein the positioning arm is movable about a plurality of axes by the plurality of joints. 12. The patient positioning system as defined by claim 11, wherein the patient supporting module has a mechanical shield for protecting the extremities of the patient. 