A web printer is disclosed. The web printer includes a print media cartridge carrying a wound length of print media, a platen extending away from the print media cartridge to support print media provided from the print media cartridge along a print media travel path, a stationary printhead mounted within the cabinet configured to print a pattern upon print media provided from the platen. The print media travel path from the print media cartridge to the printhead forms a straight line. Also, the printhead extends at least the width of the print media. Ink reservoirs are also provided for supplying ink to the printhead. A storage stores pattern image data. A data capture device captures an identifier carried by a web sample. The identifier is associated with one of the patterns. When an identifier of a web sample is captured, image data corresponding to the pattern on the web sample is supplied to the printhead for printing.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A web printer comprising: a cabinet; storage means for storing image data corresponding to a plurality of patterns; a data capture device configured to capture a configuration of a wallpaper, the configuration including a length and an identifier carried by a web sample, the identifier being associated with one of the plurality of patterns stored in the storage means; a print media cartridge mounted within the cabinet and carrying a wound length of print media; a platen extending away from the print media cartridge to support print media provided from the print media cartridge along a print media travel path; a stationary printhead mounted within the cabinet configured to print image data corresponding to the pattern on the web sample upon print media provided from the platen, the print media travel path from the print media cartridge to the printhead forming a substantially straight line, the printhead extending at least the width of the print media; a plurality of ink reservoirs mounted within the cabinet for supplying ink to the printhead; and a cutting module mounted to the cabinet for separating the length of print media according to the configuration after being printed upon from the wound length of print media. 2. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the print media travel path from the print media cartridge to the cutting module forming a substantially straight line. 3. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet defines a winding well and the web printer further comprises: a pair of opposed spindles located in the well to operatively engage with a former upon which the print media is wound; and a motor for driving at least one of the spindles. 4. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data capture device comprises a barcode scanner tethered to the cabinet and the identifier comprises a barcode which is captured by the barcode scanner. 5. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data capture device comprises a touch screen display for receiving the identity in the form of a visible alphanumeric code borne by the identifier. 6. A web printer as claimed in claim 5, wherein the touch screen display is pivotally mounted relative to the cabinet. 7. A web printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the ink reservoirs include means for determining an amount of ink remaining in the ink reservoirs. 8. A web printer as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a dryer for drying ink printed on the print media. 