A wafer holding mechanism for holding a wafer of the type used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices is herein described. The mechanism has a first plate having a number of offsets that define at least one lip that extends radially inward of the offsets. A second plate is positioned adjacent the first plate and generally between the first plate and the lip such that one or more fingers coupled to the second plate oppose the lip that depends from the first plate. When the second plate is moved to a closed position, the at least one lip and the one or more fingers cooperatively grasp an edge of a wafer therebetween. The wafer holding mechanism is coupled to a drive that rotates the wafer before an imaging mechanism for capturing images of the wafer as it rotates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer holding mechanism comprising: a first plate having at least one spacer secured thereto, the at least one spacer extending away from the first plate and having at least one lip extending radially inwardly from a distal end thereof; a second plate having at least one finger coupled thereto, the second plate being generally in planar parallel relationship with the first plate and positioned generally between the at least one lip of the spacer and the first plate, the distance between the at least one lip and the first plate being such as to permit the second plate to move relative to the first plate, the at least one finger being positioned on the second plate such that when the second plate is in an open position with respect to the first plate, the at least one finger will be positioned away from the at least one lip, and when the second plate is in a closed position with respect to the first plate, the at least one finger and the at least one lip will cooperatively grip a predetermined portion of a wafer therebetween. 2. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein the second plate is positioned sufficiently close to the wafer clamped between the first and second plates that there is created therebetween a substantially stagnant air space. 3. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 further comprising: a drive mechanism coupled to the first plate for rotating the wafer holding mechanism. 4. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 3 wherein the drive mechanism further comprises a motor coupled to the first plate. 5. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 4 wherein the motor is coupled to the first plate by an air bearing. 6. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 4 wherein the motor comprises a brush less electric motor. 7. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein the second plate has coupled thereto at least one column, the at least one column being passed through at least one bore in the first plate, the at least one column and the bore being constructed and arranged to permit the at least one column to linearly reciprocate within the at least one bore, the at least one column having a distal end opposite the end thereof coupled to the second plate that is coupled to a yoke, the yoke being constructed and arranged to engage an actuator, the movement of the actuator being transferred through the yoke and at least one column to the second plate, the actuator being adapted to actuate the second plate between its open and closed positions. 8. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 7 wherein the second plate is coupled to the yoke by at least two columns. 9. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 7 wherein the yoke is adapted to engage the actuator regardless of the rotary position of the wafer holding mechanism. 10. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 7 wherein the actuator is at least two cylinders, the at least two cylinders being coupled to a structure that is stationary with respect to the wafer holding mechanism. 11. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 10 wherein the at least two cylinders are one of an hydraulic cylinder and a pneumatic cylinder. 12. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 7 wherein the actuator is biased into a first position which allows for the second plate to be biased toward its closed position by a biasing mechanism that is coupled to the second plate. 13. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 comprising three fingers adapted to grip the wafer at locations spaced approximately 120.degree. from one another. 14. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein the at least one finger is a solid structure. 15. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein the at least one finger is a solid structure having a slot formed therein such that a portion of the at least one finger that includes a contact surface may resiliently deform when the contact surface of the at least one finger contacts a wafer. 16. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein the at least one finger is resiliently coupled to the second plate such that the at least one finger may move with respect to the second plate when the at least one finger comes into contact with the wafer. 17. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein the at least one finger is adapted to resiliently limit the magnitude of pressure applied to a wafer when the second plate is in its closed position. 18. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 17 wherein the resilient nature of the at least one finger is such as to limit pressure applied to the wafer by the at least one finger to at most 37 ounces. 19. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 further comprising a biasing mechanism coupled to at least one of the first and second plates for biasing the second plate toward its closed position. 20. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 19 wherein the biasing mechanism is a spring positioned between the first and second plates. 21. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein the at least one finger is adapted to resiliently accommodate a predetermined amount of misalignment between the first and second plates when the second plate is in its closed position. 22. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein the first plate is oriented generally above the second plate. 23. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein the wafer holding mechanism grasps a wafer and maintains it in a generally horizontal orientation. 24. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein the at least one finger and the at least one lip grip the wafer in a manner characterized by substantially no relative motion between the wafer and the at least one finger and at least one lip. 25. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein the at least one finger includes a wafer contact surface that contacts only an edge exclusion zone of the wafer when the second plate is in its closed position. 26. The wafer holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein a wafer gripped by the wafer holding mechanism is supported only within an edge exclusion zone of the wafer. 27. A wafer holding mechanism comprising an upper gripping member and a lower gripping member, the upper and lower gripping members having a first, open position and a second, closed position, the upper and lower gripping members being adapted to receive a wafer when in their first, open position and to grip the edges of the wafer within an edge exclusion zone of the wafer in a manner such that there is no relative motion between the wafer and the gripping members when the wafer is clamped therebetween, the upper and lower gripping members being further adapted such that substantially the entire area of one surface of the wafer is available to be addressed to an inspection mechanism, including at least a portion of the edge exclusion zone of the wafer, the upper and lower gripping members being further constructed to grip the wafer at three locations at approximately 120.degree. from one another, wherein the upper and lower gripping members comprise respectively: a first plate having at least one spacer secured thereto, the at least one spacer extending away from the first plate and having at least one lip extending radially inwardly from a distal end thereof; and a second plate having at least one finger coupled thereto, the second plate being generally in planar parallel relationship with the first plate and positioned generally between the at least one lip of the spacer and the first plate, the distance between the at least one lip and the first plate being such as to permit the second plate to move relative to the first plate, the at least one finger being positioned on the second plate such that when the second plate is in an open position with respect to the first plate, the at least one finger will be positioned away from the at least one lip, and when the second plate is in a closed position with respect to the first plate, the at least one finger and the at least one lip will cooperatively grip a predetermined portion of a wafer therebetween. 