Systems, methods, compositions and apparatus relating to genome selection are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: one or more at least partially isolated first sources of one or more related spermatid genomes; one or more monitoring units operable to detect one or more genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more related spermatid genomes; and one or more controller units operable to select one or more of the one or more related spermatid genomes at least partially based on one or more of the genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more related spermatid genomes. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more at least partially isolated first sources of one or more related spermatid genomes comprises: the one or more at least partially isolated first sources positioned to provide the one or more related spermatid genomes to one or more of one or more first locations, the one or more monitoring units, the one or more controller units, one or more computing units, one or more hybridization units, one or more sequencing units, or one or more amplifying units. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further including one or more second sources of one or more of one or more probes or one or more molecular markers. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the one or more second sources of one or more of one or more probes or one or more molecular markers comprise: the one or more second sources positioned to provide one or more of the one or more probes or one or more molecular markers to one or more of one or more first locations, the one or more monitoring units, the one or more controller units, one or more computing units, one or more hybridization units, one or more sequencing units, or one or more amplifying units. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more at least partially isolated first sources are further operable to receive one or more inputs. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the one or more inputs include one or more of one or more female germ line genomes, one or more spermatid genomes, one or more probes, or one or more molecular markers. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further including one or more third sources of one or more female germ line genomes. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein one or more third sources of one or more female germ line genomes comprises: one or more third sources, the one or more third sources positioned to provide the one or more female germ line genomes to one or more of one or more first locations, the one or more monitoring units, the one or more controller units, one or more computing units, one or more hybridization units, one or more sequencing units, or one or more amplifying units. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more monitoring units are further operable to detect one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more hybridization units operable to co-localize one or more of one or more probes or one or more molecular markers with one or more nucleic acids of one or more of the one or more related spermatid genomes. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more related spermatid genomes. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the one or more computing units are further operable to determine one or more of the one or more related spermatid genomes to select at least partially based on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more related spermatid genomes. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the one or more computing units are further operable to determine the one or more related spermatid genomes to select at least partially based on one or more of one or more target genetic characteristics or one or more reference genetic characteristics. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the one or more computing units are further operable to determine one or more of the one or more related spermatid genomes to select at least partially based on one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more computing units operable to receive one or more inputs. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the one or more inputs include data representative of the one or more genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more related spermatid genomes. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the one or more inputs include data representative of one or more characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes. 18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the one or more inputs include data representative of one or more of one or more reference genetic characteristics or one or more target genetic characteristics. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more controller units are operable to select one or more of the one or more related spermatid genomes at least partially based on a weighted combination of one or more of the one or more genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more related spermatid genomes. 20. An apparatus comprising: one or more characterization units including one or more at least partially isolated first sources of one or more related spermatid genomes, wherein the characterization unit is operable to determine one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more related spermatid genomes; and one or more controller units operable to select one or more of the one or more related spermatid genomes at least partially based on one or more of the genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more related spermatid genomes. 