A tactile load cell that has particular application for measuring the load on a phalange in a dexterous robot system. The load cell includes a flexible strain element having first and second end portions that can be used to mount the load cell to the phalange and a center portion that can be used to mount a suitable contact surface to the load cell. The strain element also includes a first S-shaped member including at least three sections connected to the first end portion and the center portion and a second S-shaped member including at least three sections coupled to the second end portion and the center portion. The load cell also includes eight strain gauge pairs where each strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of one of the sections of the S-shaped members where the strain gauge pairs provide strain measurements in six-degrees of freedom.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tactile load cell comprising: a flexible strain element including a first end portion, a second end portion and a center portion, said strain element further including a first S-shaped member having at least three sections and being coupled to the first end portion and the center portion and a second S-shaped member having at least three sections and being coupled to the second end portion and the center portion; and a plurality of strain gauge pairs mounted to the first and second S-shaped members where each strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing sides of one of the sections of the S-shaped members, wherein at least one of the strain gauge pairs is mounted to opposing sides of one of the three sections of the first or second S-shaped member and another of the strain gauge pairs is mounted to two other opposing sides of the same section that the at least one strain gauge pair is mounted to. 2. The load cell according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of strain gauge pairs is eight strain gauge pairs providing strain measurements in six-degrees of freedom. 3. The load cell according to claim 2 wherein a first strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of a first section of the first S-shaped member, a second strain gauge pair is mounted to two other opposing surfaces of the first section of the first S-shaped member, a third strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of a second section of the first S-shaped member, a fourth strain gauge pair is mounted to two other opposing surfaces of the second section of the first S-shaped member, a fifth strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of a first section of the second S-shaped member, a sixth strain gauge pair is mounted to two other opposing surfaces of the first section of the second S-shaped member, a seventh strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of the second section of the second S-shaped member and an eighth strain gauge pair is mounted to two other opposing surfaces of the second section of the second S-shaped member. 4. The load cell according to claim 1 wherein the sections of the first and second S-shaped members are rectangular in cross-section. 5. The load cell according to claim 1 wherein the strain element is made of aluminum. 6. The load cell according to claim 1 wherein the first and second end portions and the middle portion include mounting holes for mounting the load cell to a robotic finger. 7. The load cell according to claim 1 wherein the first and second end portions include coupling slots. 8. The load cell according to claim 1 wherein the strain element has a general U-shape. 9. The load cell according to claim 1 wherein the first and second S-shaped members each include four separate sections. 10. The load cell according to claim 1 wherein the load cell is part of a phalange in a dexterous robotic system that measures load on the phalange. 11. A tactile load cell comprising: a flexible strain element including a first end portion, a second end portion and a center portion, said strain element further including a first S-shaped member including three sections and being coupled to the first end portion and the center portion and a second S-shaped member including three sections and being coupled to the second end portion and the center portion, said first and second S-shaped members having a curved configuration so that the strain element has a general U-shape; and eight strain gauge pairs mounted to the first and second S-shaped members where each strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing sides of one of the sections of the S-shaped members and where the first S-shaped member includes four of the strain gauge pairs and the second S-shaped member includes the other four of the strain gauge pairs, said eight strain gauge pairs providing strain measurements in six-degrees of freedom, wherein at least one of the strain gauge pairs is mounted to opposing sides of one of the three sections of the first or second S-shaped member and another of the strain gauge pairs is mounted to two other opposing sides of the same section that the at least one strain gauge pair is mounted to. 12. The load cell according to claim 11 a first strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of a first section of the first S-shaped member, a second strain gauge pair is mounted to two other opposing surfaces of the first section of the first S-shaped member, a third strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of a second section of the first S-shaped member, a fourth strain gauge pair is mounted to two other opposing surfaces of the second section of the first S-shaped member, a fifth strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of a first section of the second S-shaped member, a sixth strain gauge pair is mounted to two other opposing surfaces of the first section of the second S-shaped member, a seventh strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of the second section of the second S-shaped member and an eighth strain gauge pair is mounted to two other opposing surfaces of the second section of the second S-shaped member. 13. The load cell according to claim 11 wherein the sections of the first and second S-shaped members are rectangular in cross-section. 14. The load cell according to claim 11 wherein the strain element is made of aluminum. 15. The load cell according to claim 11 wherein the load cell is part of a phalange in a dexterous robotic system that measures load on the phalange. 16. A tactile load cell for measuring strain in a phalange of a dexterous robot system, said load cell comprising: a flexible strain element including a first end portion, a second end portion and a center portion, said strain element further including a first S-shaped member having at least three sections and being coupled to the first end portion and the center portion and a second S-shaped member having at least three sections and being coupled to the second end portion and the center portion; and eight strain gauge pairs mounted to the first and second S-shaped members such that each strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing sides of one of the sections of the S-shaped member, wherein the first S-shaped member includes four of the strain gauge pairs and the second of the S-shaped members includes the other four of the strain gauge pairs and wherein the strain gauge pairs provide strain measurements and six-degrees of freedom, wherein at least one of the strain gauge pairs is mounted to opposing sides of one of the three sections of the first or second S-shaped member and another of the strain gauge pairs is mounted to two other opposing sides of the same section that the at least one strain gauge pair is mounted to. 17. The load cell according to claim 16 a first strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of a first section of the first S-shaped member, a second strain gauge pair is mounted to two other opposing surfaces of the first section of the first S-shaped member, a third strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of a second section of the first S-shaped member, a fourth strain gauge pair is mounted to two other opposing surfaces of the second section of the first S-shaped member, a fifth strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of a first section of the second S-shaped member, a sixth strain gauge pair is mounted to two other opposing surfaces of the first section of the second S-shaped member, a seventh strain gauge pair is mounted to opposing surfaces of the second section of the second S-shaped member and an eighth strain gauge pair is mounted to two other opposing surfaces of the second section of the second S-shaped member. 18. The load cell according to claim 16 wherein the strain element has a general U-shape. 19. The load cell according to claim 16 wherein the first and second end portions include coupling slots. 20. The load cell according to claim 16 wherein the strain element is made of aluminum. 