A system for process control comprises a server digital data processor and a client digital data processor that are coupled by a network, such as the Internet or an Intranet. The server digital data processor, which is additionally coupled to a control/sensing device and any associated interface equipment (collectively, referred to as "process control apparatus"), includes a command processor that transfers information between the network and the process control apparatus. The client digital data processor includes an information client (e.g., a so-called Internet web browser) capable of requesting and receiving an applet from the server digital data processor. The information client, further, defines a hardware-independent and operating system-independent virtual machine environment within the client digital data processor. The client digital data processor executes, within that virtual machine environment, an applet for configuring the client digital data processor as a "process controller" that establishes communications over the network with the command processor and that monitors and/or controls the process control apparatus via those communications.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for process control, comprising the steps of: A. defining on a client digital data processor a virtual machine environment for execution of an applet received from a server digital data processor, B. executing a command processor on the server digital data processor, wherein: (i) the server digital data processor is coupled to a network and to a process control apparatus, (ii) the command processor transfers information between the network and the process control apparatus, and (ii) said process control apparatus comprises control/sensing devices to monitor and/or control a process, C. executing the applet within the virtual machine environment at the client digital data processor, wherein said execution of the applet facilitates (i) establishing communications over the network between the applet and the command processor, (ii) transferring the information between the applet and the command processor for at least one of monitoring and controlling the process control apparatus, wherein the information includes requests generated by the applet for services provided by the command processor, and (iii) at least one of monitoring and controlling the process control apparatus via the command processor based at least in part on the transferred information. 2. A method according to claim 1, comprising the steps of selectively transferring the applet over the network from the server digital data processor to the client digital data processor for execution within the virtual environment defined thereby. 3. A method according to claim 2, comprising the step of generating a display representative of the status of the process control apparatus. 4. A method according to claim 1, comprising the steps of A. transferring commands over the network from the applet to the command processor for effecting a transfer of information regarding a status of the process control apparatus, and B. responding to such commands for generating information on the status of the process control apparatus and transferring that information over the network from the command processor to the applet. 5. A method according to claim 4, comprising the step of responding to changes in the status of the process control apparatus for by transferring information with respect thereto over the network from the command processor to the applet. 6. A method according to claim 1, comprising the steps of: A. executing an information server on the server digital data processor, B. executing an information client on the client digital data processor for establishing communications over the network with the information server. 7. A method according to claim 6, comprising the step of selectively transferring the applet over the network from the information server to the information client for execution within the virtual environment defined thereby. 8. A method according to claim 7, comprising the steps of: A. transferring hypertext markup language (HTML) information referencing the applet over the network from the information server to the information client, B. generating, with the information client, a display based at least in part on the HTML information transferred from the information server, and C. responding to a user command in response to such display for selectively transferring a request for the applet from the information client to the information server. 9. A method according to claim 1, comprising the step of using an Intranet and Internet as at least a portion of the network. 10. A method according to claim 1, comprising the step of executing as the applet at least one of JAVA bytecode and an intermediate code for interpretation within the virtual machine environment that is hardware-independent, operating system-independent and windows system-independent. 11. A method according to claim 1, comprising the steps of A. executing a JAVA application on the server digital data processor to transfer information at least one of to and from the network, B. executing a non-JAVA application program interface (API) on the server digital data processor for transferring information at least one of to and from the process control apparatus, C. executing a JAVA/API application on the server digital data processor for transferring information between the JAVA application and the API. 12. A method for process control, comprising the steps of: A. executing a web browser on a client digital data processor coupled to a network to define a virtual machine environment, B. executing a command processor on a server digital data processor, wherein: (i) the server digital data processor is coupled to a network and to a process control apparatus, (ii) the command processor for transfers information between the network and the process control apparatus, and (iii) the network comprises any of an Intranet and Internet, C. transferring a JAVA applet over the network from the server digital data processor to the web browser, D. executing the JAVA applet within the virtual machine environment, wherein said execution of the JAVA applet facilitates (i) establish communications over the network between the JAVA applet and the command processor, (ii) transferring the information between the JAVA applet and the command processor for at least one of monitoring and controlling the process control apparatus, wherein the information includes requests generated by the JAVA applet for services provided by the command processor in order to at least one of monitor and control the process control apparatus, and (iii) at least one of monitoring and controlling the process control apparatus via the command processor based at least in part on the transferred information. 13. A method for process control, comprising: A. defining on a first digital data processor a virtual machine environment and executing a JAVA applet in the virtual machine environment, B. generating by the JAVA applet a message to a command processor executing on a server digital data processor, wherein: the message includes at least one request for services provided by the command processor to at least one of monitor and control a process control apparatus, at least one of the services includes invoking a method in connection with at least one of monitoring and controlling the process control apparatus, and the command processor provides the services for access to information regarding the process control apparatus, C. responding to the message with an object manager that invokes the method, and D. at least one of controlling and monitoring the process control apparatus via at least one of the services requested by the JAVA applet executing in the virtual machine environment. 14. A method according to claim 13, comprising A. generating with the JAVA applet a message for accessing information concerning the process control apparatus, and B. responding to that message with the object manager for (i) invoking the method to access the such information, and (ii) generating a message to supply that information to the JAVA applet. 15. A method according to claim 14, comprising the step of configuring the first digital data processor as an information client for requesting and receiving the JAVA applet from an information server. 16. A method according to claim 15, comprising the step of executing the information server on a second digital data processor. 17. A method according to claim 13, comprising the step of disposing the process control apparatus remotely with respect to the first digital data processor. 