A robotic pallet drive arrangement in a robotic roller hemming system including a track and a plurality of pallets movable on the track. The arrangement also includes a robot having an arm adapted for engagement with the pallets. Movement of the robot arm while the robot arm is engaged with one of the pallets moves the pallet along the track.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic pallet drive arrangement in a robotic roller hemming system, said robotic pallet drive arrangement comprising: a track including a guide; a plurality of freely moveable pallets supported by and movable on said track, said pallets being engaged with said guide, and said track not including a drive for driving said pallets; and a robot having an arm adapted for engagement with said pallets; whereby movement of said robot arm while said robot arm is engaged with one of said pallets moves the pallet along the track. 2. The robotic pallet drive arrangement of claim 1, wherein said robot includes a working arm in addition to said arm adapted for engagement with said pallets. 3. The robotic pallet drive arrangement of claim 1, wherein said arm adapted for engagement with said pallets is the working arm of said robot. 4. The robotic pallet drive arrangement of claim 1, wherein said track includes at least one locking device for releasably locking said pallets to said track. 5. The robotic pallet drive arrangement of claim 1, wherein said track is generally arcuate in shape. 6. The robotic pallet drive arrangement of claim 1, wherein said track is generally circular in shape. 7. A robotic pallet drive arrangement in a robotic roller hemming system, said robotic pallet drive arrangement comprising: a robot including a base and a swingable, movable arm; said robot having a first axis of rotation extending through said base; a track spacedly disposed from said robot, said track being generally arcuate in shape and including a guide, and said track being disposed around said base of said robot; and a plurality of free-moving pallets supported by and movable on said track, said pallets being engaged with said guide; said robot arm being operably engagable with each of said pallets; said track including at least one locking device for releasably locking said pallets to said track; whereby rotating said robot about said first axis while said robot arm is engaged with one of said pallets moves the pallet along the track. 8. The robotic pallet drive arrangement of claim 7, wherein said robot includes a working arm in addition to said arm that is operably engagable with said pallets. 9. The robotic pallet drive arrangement of claim 7, wherein said arm that is operably engagable with said pallets is the working arm of said robot. 10. The robotic pallet drive arrangement of claim 7, wherein each point along the arc of said track is generally equidistant from the first axis of said robot. 11. The robotic pallet drive arrangement of claim 7, wherein said track has a plurality of stops disposed along the track defining storage positions, and said locking device is adapted to lock said pallets at said storage positions. 12. The robotic pallet drive arrangement of claim 7, wherein said track is generally circular in shape. 13. The robotic pallet drive arrangement of claim 7, further including a turntable positioned in front of said robot at a working position along said track. 