A robotic ocean farm includes a plant support means such as a grid, with a submersible towing system incorporating means for navigation of the support grid in the open ocean, and means for positioning of the support grid in a first surfaced position for sunlight exposure of the plants and a second submerged position for nutrient gathering by the plants. The submersible towing system incorporates one or more tow boats connected to a forward periphery of the grid, each of the tow boats incorporating a propulsion system for navigation of the grid and maintaining lateral tension in the forward periphery of the grid. Additionally, one or more reaction boats are connected to an aft periphery of the grid. Each of the reaction boats incorporates a propulsion system for maintaining lateral tension in the aft periphery of the grid and reacting in concert with the tow boats to maintain longitudinal tension in the grid. A system for harvesting multiple independently operating farms incorporates a harvesting station which is placed or positions itself to meet the farms at predetermined locations during their voyage to harvest and replenish the plants carried on the farm grid. Base stations, separately or as a part of the harvesting station, communicate with the farms provide mutual support and informational exchange for optimized operation of the farms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic ocean farm comprising: a continuously free-floating plant support means; a submersible towing system having propulsion and navigation and control electronics to tow the plant support means in the open ocean on a predetermined route from and returning to a harvesting location, and a buoyancy system for repeatedly submerging and surfacing the plant support means with a first surfaced position for sunlight exposure of plants attached to the plant support means and a second submerged position at a depth for a nutrient rich layer above the bottom for nutrient gathering by the plants. 2. A robotic ocean farm as defined in claim 1 wherein the submersible towing system comprises; at least one tow boat connected to a forward periphery of the support means, the at least one tow boat incorporating a propulsion system for towing of the support means and maintaining lateral tension in the forward periphery of the support means; and at least one reaction boat connected to an aft periphery of the support means, the at least one reaction boat incorporating a propulsion system for maintaining lateral tension in the aft periphery of the support means and reacting in concert with the at least one tow boat to maintain longitudinal tension in the support means. 3. A robotic ocean farm as defined in claim 2 wherein the at least one tow boat incorporates a sail and keel with an adjustable angle therebetween for aerodynamic and hydrodynamic shear force resolution for propulsive thrust. 4. A robotic ocean farm as defined in claim 2 wherein the at least one reaction boat incorporates a sail and keel with an adjustable angle therebetween for aerodynamic and hydrodynamic shear force resolution for propulsive thrust. 5. A robotic ocean farm as defined in claim 2 wherein the at least one tow boat and the at least one reaction boat each incorporate local communication links with the other boats. 6. A robotic ocean farm as defined in claim 1 wherein the submersible towing means includes ballast tanks for submersion of the support means. 7. A robotic ocean farming system comprising: at least one continuously free-floating plant support grid; a submersible towing system having propulsion and navigation and control electronics to tow the at least one support grid in the open ocean in a predetermined route, a buoyancy system for repeatedly submerging and surfacing of the at least one support grid in a first surfaced position for sunlight exposure of the plants and a second submerged position at a depth for a nutrient rich layer above the bottom for nutrient gathering by the plants; a harvesting station positionable at a predetermined point for interacting with the plant grid. 8. A robotic ocean farming system as defined in claim 7 wherein the submersible towing system comprises: at least two tow boats connected to opposite extents of a forward periphery of the grid, each of the tow boats incorporating a propulsion system for towing of the grid and maintaining lateral tension in the forward periphery of the grid; and at least two reaction boats connected to opposite extents of an aft periphery of the grid, each of the reaction boats incorporating a propulsion system for maintaining lateral tension in the aft periphery of the grid and reacting in concert with the tow boats to maintain longitudinal tension in the grid. 9. A robotic ocean farming system as defined in claim 8 wherein each of the tow boats incorporates a sail and keel with an adjustable angle therebetween for aerodynamic and hydrodynamic shear force resolution for propulsive thrust. 10. A robotic ocean farming system as defined in claim 8 wherein each of the reaction boats incorporates a sail and keel with an adjustable angle therebetween for aerodynamic and hydrodynamic shear force resolution for propulsive thrust. 11. A robotic ocean farming system comprising: a continuously free-floating plant support grid; at least two tow boats connected to opposite extents of a forward periphery of the grid, each of the tow boats incorporating a sail and keel with an adjustable angle therebetween for aerodynamic and hydrodynamic shear force resolution for propulsive thrust for navigation of the grid and maintaining lateral tension in the forward periphery of the grid; at least two reaction boats connected to opposite extents of an aft periphery of the grid, each of the reaction boats incorporating a sail and keel with an adjustable angle therebetween for aerodynamic and hydrodynamic shear force resolution for propulsive thrust for maintaining lateral tension in the aft periphery of the grid and reacting in concert with the tow boats to maintain longitudinal tension in the grid, said tow boats and reaction boats including a buoyancy system for repeatedly submerging and surfacing the support grid in a first surfaced position for sunlight exposure of the plants and a second submerged position at a depth for a nutrient rich layer above the bottom for nutrient gathering by the plants; navigation and control electronics for directing the at least one support grid in the open ocean in a predetermined route, and, a harvesting station positionable at a predetermined point in the predetermined route for interacting with the plant support grid. 