Inkwells adapted for use in direct-write nanolithography and other applications including use of wells, channels, and posts. The wells can possess a geometry which matches the geometry of tips which are dipped into the inkwells. The channels can be open or closed. Hydrophilicity and hydrophobicity can be used to control ink flow. SEM can be used to characterize the inkwells. Ink flow can be monitored with video. Hydrophobic material layers can be used to prevent cross contamination. Microsyringes can be used to fill reservoirs. Satellite reservoirs can be used to prevent bubble formation.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A microfluidic device comprising: a substrate comprising a surface and a plurality of microchannels which are hydrophilicly surface treated, and at least one hydrophobic barrier layer on the surface between the microchannels which prevents cross contamination between the plurality of microchannels when liquid flows through the microchannels, wherein the hydrophobic barrier layer is a polymeric layer. 2. The microfluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophobic barrier layer is a fluorinated polymeric layer. 3. The microfluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophobic barrier layer is produced by a plasma. 4. The microfluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the microchannels are configured to deliver liquid ink to or from one or more reservoirs and are adapted for use in transferring the ink to a nanolithography tip as an inkwell. 5. The microfluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the device is an ink well for use in nanolithography and further includes alignment marks. 6. The microfluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the hydrophobic layer comprises at least one monolayer. 7. A microfluidic device comprising: a substrate comprising a surface and a plurality of microchannels which are hydrophilicly surface treated, and at least one hydrophobic barrier layer on the surface between the microchannels which prevents cross contamination between the plurality of microchannels when liquid flows through the microchannels, wherein the hydrophobic barrier layer is produced by a plasma. 8. The microfluidic device according to claim 7, wherein the hydrophobic barrier layer is produced by a plasma with use of a deep reactive ion etching instrument. 9. A microfluidic device comprising: a substrate comprising a surface and a plurality of microchannels which are hydrophilicly surface treated, and at least one hydrophobic barrier layer on the surface between the microchannels which prevents cross contamination between the plurality of microchannels when liquid flows through the microchannels, wherein the microchannels are configured to deliver liquid ink to or from one or more reservoirs and are adapted for use in transferring the ink to a nanolithography tip as an inkwell. 10. The microfluidic device according to claim 9, wherein the device is an ink well for use in nanolithography and further includes alignment marks. 11. The microfluidic device according to claim 10, wherein the hydrophobic layer is about 10 microns thick or less. 12. The microfluidic device according to claim 11, wherein the hydrophobic layer is about one micron thick or less. 13. A microfluidic device comprising: a substrate comprising a surface and a plurality of microchannels which are hydrophilicly surface treated, and at least one hydrophobic barrier layer on the surface between the microchannels which prevents cross contamination between the plurality of microchannels when liquid flows through the microchannels, wherein the hydrophobic layer comprises at least one monolayer. 14. A microfluidic device comprising: a substrate comprising a surface and a plurality of microchannels, wherein an ink has a contact angle of less than 90 degrees on the microchannel surface, and at least one barrier layer on the surface between the microchannels, wherein the ink has a contact angle of more than 90 degrees with the barrier layer. 15. An inkwell device adapted for use for dipping of a nanoscopic tip to transfer ink from the inkwell device to the tip, wherein the inkwell device comprises at least one hydrophobic barrier layer on a substrate surface which prevents ink from travelling out of a microchannel disposed next to the hydrophobic barrier layer, wherein the device further comprises alignment marks and ink reservoirs with microchannels radiating from the reservoirs. 16. A method for keeping liquid inside a microchannel as it flows through the microchannel and prevent cross contamination comprising the steps of: providing a patterned photoresist on a substrate, etching the substrate to form a microchannel, removing photoresist, and deposition of hydrophobic barrier layer on the substrate surrounding the microchannel. 17. A method for keeping liquid inside a microchannel as it flows through the microchannel comprising the steps of: (A) providing a patterned photoresist on a substrate, wherein the substrate comprises an underlying substrate layer and an oxidized overlayer which contacts the photoresist, (B) etching of the oxidized overlayer, (C) removing the photoresist, and (D) depositing of hydrophobic barrier layer on the substrate surrounding the microchannel. 18. A method for keeping liquid inside a microchannel as it flows through the microchannel and prevent cross contamination comprising the steps of: deposit a hydrophobic barrier layer onto a substrate, pattern a photoresist onto the hydrophobic barrier layer, etch microchannels into the substrate, and remove the photoresist. 19. The method according to claim 18, further comprising etching of at least one reservoir and at least one inkwell. 20. A method for preventing cross contamination in closely spaced microchannels in a microfluidic device comprising the step of forming a hydrophobic barrier layer between the microchannels, wherein the hydrophobic layer is disposed on the substrate surface surrounding the microchannels. 21. A method of fabricating an inkwell device comprising etching microchannels into a substrate, and depositing a hydrophobic barrier layer on surfaces next to the microchannels, wherein the same instrument is used for both the etching step and the depositing of the hydrophobic barrier layer. 