A filling apparatus for filling a microplate. The microplate can comprise a plurality of wells each sized to receive an assay. A substrate can comprise a first surface and an opposing second surface, a first assay input port for receiving the assay disposed on the first surface, a plurality of staging capillaries extending through the substrate, and a first plurality of microfluidic channels fluidly coupling the first assay input port with at least one of the plurality of staging capillaries. Each of the plurality of staging capillaries can comprise an inlet and an outlet and be sized to receive the assay.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A filling apparatus for filling a microplate, said microplate having a plurality of wells, each of said plurality of wells being sized to receive an assay therein, said filling apparatus comprising: a substrate having a first surface and an opposing second surface, said substrate further having a first assay input port, a plurality of staging capillaries extending through said substrate, and a first plurality of microfluidic channels, at least one of said first plurality of microfluidic channels fluidly coupling said first assay input port with at least one of said plurality of staging capillaries, each of said plurality of staging capillaries having an inlet and an outlet; a second assay input port in fluid communication with a second plurality of microfluidic channels, said first assay input port and said second assay input port being opposingly spaced across said substrate; a barrier feature formed between said first plurality of microfluidic channels and said second plurality of microfluidic channels; and at least one of said first plurality of microfluidic channels and said second plurality of microfluidic channels having a heatstake portion, said heatstake portion being configured in a pre-heatstaked condition permitting flow of the assay therethrough and subsequently in a post-heatstaked condition inhibiting flow of the assay therethrough; wherein said heatstake portion further comprises a reduced material area thereby defining a reduced thermal capacity for an increased rate of heatstaking. 2. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said first assay input port comprises a plurality of upstanding walls together defining a fluid well, said fluid well terminating at a throat, said throat having a reduced-cross section relative to said fluid well. 3. The filling apparatus according to claim 2, further comprising: a surface tension relief post extending upward within said throat, said surface tension relief post engagable with the assay in said first assay input port. 4. The filling apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: at least one fluid overfill reservoir in fluid communication with at least a portion of said first plurality of microfluidic channels, said at least one fluid overfill reservoir having a closed bottom to generally inhibit filling of said at least one fluid overfill reservoir with the assay until application of a centripetal force. 5. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said substrate is rectangular in shape having a pair of sides and a pair of ends, said first assay input port is disposed along at least one of said pair of ends of said substrate. 6. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said substrate is rectangular in shape having a pair of sides and a pair of ends, said first assay input port is disposed along at least one of said pair of sides of said substrate. 7. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of staging capillaries is sized relative to said first plurality of microfluidic channels and said first assay input port to provide sufficient capillary force to draw a predetermined volume of the assay therein. 8. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of staging capillaries is sized relative to said first plurality of microfluidic channels and said first assay input port to provide sufficient capillary force to draw a predetermined volume of the assay therein and permit release of the assay from each of said plurality of staging capillaries in response to an applied centripetal force. 9. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of staging capillaries is spaced relative to adjacent ones of said plurality of staging capillaries to permit filling of the microplate. 10. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said reduced material area comprises a void. 11. A filling apparatus for filling a microplate, said microplate having a plurality of wells, each of said plurality of wells being sized to receive an assay therein, said filling apparatus comprising: a substrate having a first surface and an opposing second surface, said substrate further having an assay input port, a plurality of staging capillaries extending through said substrate, and a plurality of microfluidic channels, at least one of said first plurality of microfluidic channels fluidly coupling said assay input port with at least two of said plurality of staging capillaries, each of said plurality of staging capillaries having an inlet and an outlet, at least one of said plurality of microfluidic channels being configured in a pre-heatstaked condition permitting flow of the assay therethrough and subsequently in a post-heatstaked condition inhibiting flow of the assay therethrough; wherein said at least one of said plurality of microfluidic channels is configured into said post-heatstaked condition at a reduced material area, said reduced material area defining a reduced thermal capacity for an increased rate of heatstaking. 12. The filling apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said assay input port comprises a plurality of upstanding walls together defining a fluid well, said fluid well terminating at a throat, said throat having a reduced-cross section relative to said fluid well. 13. The filling apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising: a surface tension relief post extending upward within said throat, said surface tension relief post engagable with the assay in said assay input port. 14. The filling apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising: at least one fluid overfill reservoir in fluid communication with at least a portion of said plurality of microfluidic channels, said at least one fluid overfill reservoir having a closed bottom to generally inhibit filling of said at least one fluid overfill reservoir with the assay until application of a centripetal force. 15. The filling apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said substrate is rectangular in shape having a pair of sides and a pair of ends, said assay input port is disposed along at least one of said pair of ends of said substrate. 16. The filling apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said substrate is rectangular in shape having a pair of sides and a pair of ends, said assay input port is disposed along at least one of said pair of sides of said substrate. 17. The filling apparatus according to claim 11 wherein each of said plurality of staging capillaries is sized relative to said plurality of microfluidic channels and said assay input port to provide sufficient capillary force to draw a predetermined volume of the assay therein. 18. The filling apparatus according to claim 11 wherein each of said plurality of staging capillaries is sized relative to said plurality of microfluidic channels and said assay input port to provide sufficient capillary force to draw a predetermined volume of the assay therein and permit release of the assay from each of said plurality of staging capillaries in response to an applied centripetal force. 19. The filling apparatus according to claim 11 wherein each of said plurality of staging capillaries is spaced relative to adjacent ones of said plurality of staging capillaries to permit filling of the microplate. 20. The filling apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said reduced material area comprises a void. 