Surgical accessories are presented in vivo and used by surgical tools in the surgical site to perform additional tasks without the need to remove the tools from the surgical site for tool change or instrument loading. Examples of in vivo accessories include fastening accessories such as surgical clips for use with a clip applier, single working member accessories such as a blade which can be grasped and manipulated by a grasping tool for cutting, sheath accessories that fit over working members of a tool, flow tubes for providing suction or introducing a fluid into the surgical site, and a retraction member resiliently biased to retract a tissue to expose an area in the surgical site for treatment. The accessories can be introduced into the surgical site by a dedicated accessory introducer, or can be supported on the body of a surgical tool inserted into the surgical site and be manipulated using another surgical tool in the surgical site. The accessory introducer can be resiliently biased to bias the accessories toward a predetermined position in the surgical site.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for providing a surgical accessory in vivo through a wall of a patient body into an internal cavity of the patient body for effecting a desired treatment of a target tissue in the patient body, the apparatus comprising: a surgical accessory; an accessory introducer having a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the introducer insertable into an opening in the patient body and adapted to introduce the surgical accessory through the opening to the internal cavity; a spring connected to the accessory introducer to resiliently bias the surgical accessory to a location within the internal cavity; and a grasping tool for grasping and moving the surgical accessory to a position in the patient for effecting the desired treatment while compressing the spring so that the spring returns the surgical accessory to the biased location upon release of the surgical accessory by the grasping tool. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the accessory introducer comprises a support member configured to be anchored to the wall of the patient body at the opening; and a slidable member coupled to the surgical accessory, the slidable member being slidable relative to the support member. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the spring is coupled to the support member and the slidable member. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the accessory introducer comprises a needle portion for piercing through the wall of the patient body into the internal cavity, the needle portion including a hollow core for introducing the surgical accessory. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the surgical accessory is a flow tube. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the flow tube is connected to a vacuum source to provide suction to draw out matter from the internal cavity through the opening. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the flow tube is connected to an external source for introducing matter into the internal cavity through the opening. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the matter is a gas. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the matter is a liquid. 