The invention is directed to a process for the production of certain phosphorous, namely urea, thio-urea and sulphonamide phosphorous compounds. The present invention provides a process for the production of phosphorous compounds which process allows an easy and effective separation of the reaction products from impurities by applying a solid alkaline ion-exchange resin.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Process for the production of a phosphorous compound having the structure ##STR00006## wherein X is O, N or C; R.sup.1 is an alkylene moiety of 0 to 5 carbon atoms; R.sup.2 is a hydrogen atom or a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl or aryl group; R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5 and R.sup.6 are independently hydrogen or an optionally substituted aryl or alkyl group; and Z is at least one of ##STR00007## in which process ##STR00008## wherein X is O, N or C and n and m are independently 0 or 1, is reacted with HY--C(R.sup.6)--R.sup.1(R.sup.5)--Z--R.sup.2, wherein Y is O or NH, and Z is as defined above, to produce the said phosphorous compound, in the presence of a solid alkaline ion-exchange resin. 2. Process according to claim 1, wherein the alkaline ion-exchange resin is a weak alkaline ion-exchange resin, preferably based on amine groups. 3. Process according to claim 1, wherein the alkaline ion-exchange resin is present in the form of particles with a mean diameter of from 10 .mu.m to 2 000 .mu.m, more preferably from 100 .mu.m to 1 500 .mu.m, and most preferably from 400 .mu.m to 1 000 .mu.m. 4. Process according to claim 1, which process is carried out in a double vessel reactor, wherein the solid alkaline ion-exchange resin is present in one vessel and the product is collected in the other vessel. 5. Process according to claim 1, which process is carried out at a temperature of from -20.degree. C. to 50.degree. C. 6. Process according to claim 1, which process is carried out in a solvent chosen from the group consisting of tetrahydrofuran and toluene. 7. Process according to claim 1, wherein the process is carried out as a parallel synthesis of at least 2 different phosphorous derivatives. 8. Process according to claim 1, wherein R.sup.1 is chosen from the group consisting of unsubstituted and substituted methylene, ethylene, propylene, butylene, wherein the substituted methylene ethylene, propylene, and butylene are preferably substituted with one or more alkyl- and or aryl groups that can contain 1 to 10 carbon atoms. 9. Process according to claim 1, wherein R.sup.2 is chosen from the group consisting of phenyl, 2-methoxy phenyl, 3-methoxy phenyl, 4-methoxy phenyl, methyl, ethyl, propyl, n-butyl, and t-butyl. 10. Process according to claim 2, wherein the alkaline ion-exchange resin is present in the form of particles with a mean diameter of from 10 .mu.m to 2 000 .mu.m, more preferably from 100 .mu.m to 1 500 .mu.m, and most preferably from 400 .mu.m to 1 000 .mu.m; which process is carried out in a double vessel reactor, wherein the solid alkaline ion-exchange resin is present in one vessel and the product is collected in the other vessel; which process is carried out at a temperature of from -20.degree. C. to 50.degree. C.; which process is carried out in a solvent chosen from the group consisting of tetrahydrofuran and toluene; wherein the process is carried out as a parallel synthesis of at least 2 different phosphorous derivatives; wherein R.sup.1 is chosen from the group consisting of unsubstituted and substituted methylene, ethylene, propylene, butylene, wherein the substituted methylene ethylene, propylene, and butylene are preferably substituted with one or more alkyl- and or aryl groups that can contain 1 to 10 carbon atoms; and wherein R.sup.2 is chosen from the group consisting of phenyl, 2-methoxy phenyl, 3-methoxy phenyl, 4-methoxy phenyl, methyl, ethyl, propyl, n-butyl, and t-butyl. 