Systems, methods, compositions and apparatus relating to genome selection are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: one or more at least partially isolated first sources of one or more related polar body genomes; one or more monitoring units operable to detect one or more genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more related polar body genomes; and one or more controller units operable to select one or more related female germ line genomes at least partially based on one or more of the genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more related polar body genomes. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more at least partially isolated first sources of one or more related polar body genomes comprises: the one or more at least partially isolated first sources positioned to provide the one or more related polar body genomes to one or more of one or more first locations, the one or more monitoring units, the one or more controller units, one or more computing units, one or more hybridization units, one or more sequencing units, or one or more amplifying units. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further including one or more second sources of one or more of one or more probes or one or more molecular markers. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the one or more second sources of one or more of one or more probes or one or more molecular markers comprise: the one or more second sources positioned to provide one or more of the one or more probes or the one or more molecular markers to one or more of one or more first locations, the one or more monitoring units, the one or more controller units, one or more computing units, one or more hybridization units, one or more sequencing units, or one or more amplifying units. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more at least partially isolated first sources are further operable to receive one or more inputs. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the one or more at least partially isolated first sources are further operable to receive the one or more inputs, the one or more inputs including one or more of one or more related polar body genomes, one or more male haploid genomes, one or more probes, or one or more molecular markers. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further including one or more third sources of one or more male haploid genomes. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more sourcing units further include one or more fourth sources of one or more female germ line genomes. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more monitoring units are further operable to detect one or more genetic characteristics of one or more male haploid genomes. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more hybridization units operable to co-localize one or more of one or more probes or one or more molecular markers with one or more nucleic acids of one or more of the one or more related polar body genomes. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more computing units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more related polar body genomes. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the one or more computing units are operable to determine one or more of the one or more related female germ line genomes to select at least partially based on the one or more genetic characteristics of one of more of the one or more related polar body genomes. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the one or more computing units are operable to determine the one or more related female germ line genomes to select at least partially based on one or more of one or more target genetic characteristics or one or more reference genetic characteristics. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the one or more computing units are operable to determine one or more of the one or more related female germ line genomes to select at least partially based on one or more genetic characteristics of one or more male hap bid genomes. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more computing units operable to receive one or more inputs. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the one or more inputs include data representative of one or more genetic characteristics of one or more of one of more of the one or more related polar body genomes. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the one or more inputs include data representative of one or more characteristics of one or more male haploid genomes. 18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the one or more inputs include data representative of one or more of one or more reference genetic characteristics or one or more target genetic characteristics. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more controller units are operable to select one or more of the one or more related female germ line genomes at least partially based on one or more of one or more target genetic characteristics or one or more reference genetic characteristics. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more controller units are operable to select one or more of the one or related female germ line genomes at least partially based on one or more genetic characteristics of one or more male haploid genomes. 21. An apparatus comprising: one or more at least partially isolated first sources of one or more related polar body genomes; one or more computing units operable to receive one or more inputs, the one or more inputs including data representative of one or more characteristics of one or more of the one or more related polar body genomes; and one or more controller units operable to select one or more related female germ line genomes at least partially based on the one or more genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more related polar body genomes. 22. An apparatus comprising: one or more characterization units operable to determine one or more genetic characteristics of one or more related polar body genomes; and one or more controller units operable to select one or more of the one or more related female germ line genomes at least partially based on one or more of the genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more related polar body genomes. 