A robotic architecture for capturing the autonomous performance advantages the animal models enjoy in the natural environment is disclosed. A biomimesis process is employed to allow selective utilization of basic physical components and adaptation of a common control paradigm for each of different vehicle types. The biomimetic architecture involves five functional elements: a basic biomorphic plant for capturing the biomechanical advantages of the model organism; a neural circuit-based controller consisting of a finite state machine; myomorphic actuators producing linear graded force in response to trains of current pulses for mediating movements; labeled line code output by neuromorphic sensors; and a reactive behavioral sequencer executing command sequences defined within a behavioral library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A biomimetic robotic device based on a subject animal, comprising: a body with an interior body cavity and an exterior body surface; counterpart physical components to each of identified physical components of the subject animal, each of the counterpart physical components being mechanically coupled to the body and independently actuatable; at least one sensor for sensing a condition or parameter external to the body surface, labeled line code for correlating each condition or parameter sensed by the at least one sensor with a respective reflex comprised of a physical maneuver or sequence of maneuvers of the robotic device, the physical maneuver or sequence of maneuvers of the robotic device corresponding to an exteroceptive reflex of the subject animal to a substantially similar condition or parameter as sensed by the subject animal, the labeled line code being output by ones of the at least one sensor; a library of motor command sequence structures characterizing commands for causing sequential changes in the physical orientation of identified counterpart physical components over temporal periods for performing physical maneuvers of the robotic device to provide forward, reverse, and lateral walking capabilities; and a neural circuit-based controller comprising a command neuron object and a memory for receiving the library of motor command sequence structures, the command neuron object being capable of selectively actuating ones of the counterpart physical components in response to selected ones of the motor command sequence structures, wherein input from the at least one sensor acts directly on the command neuron object to autonomously invoke the physical maneuver or sequence of maneuvers of the robotic device corresponding to the reflex of the subject animal to provide forward, reverse, and lateral walking capabilities. 2. The robotic device of claim 1, further comprising a myomorphic actuator system, comprising: a strand of shaped memory alloy material having two ends and a central portion, wherein a first of the two ends is disposed proximate the central portion thereby forming a loop; a band of electrically conductive material disposed around and physically compressed against the central portion and the first end; a strand of light-weight, high-strength, low-electrical conductivity material disposed through the loop for physically interfacing the shaped memory alloy to a structural component; and an electrically conductive member disposed in electrical contact with the band, wherein the said myomorphic actuator system actuates the counterpart components when so directed by the controller. 3. The robotic device of claim 1, further comprising: a polymer-based Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS) based sensor, wherein the said MEMS-based sensor actuates the counterpart components when so directed by the controller. 4. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the counterpart components comprise legs. 5. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the subject animal is a lobster or a lamprey. 6. The robotic device of claim 2, wherein the shaped memory alloy is nitinol. 7. The robotic device of claim 2, wherein the light-weight, high-strength, low-electrical conductivity material is para-aramid fiber. 8. The robotic device as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor is structured and arranged to provide to the controller sensing data of a reflex acting on external stimuli in response to any change in an orientation or an operating environment of the robotic device. 9. The robotic device as recited in claim 8, wherein the controller is adapted to use the sensing data of the reflex acting on external stimuli to invoke or mediate the respective reflex to cause the robotic device to change its orientation or its posture. 10. The robotic device as recited in claim 9, wherein, when changing its position, movement of the robotic device has a pitch, a roll, and a yaw and the controller is adapted to change the pitch, the roll, and the yaw. 11. The robotic device as recited in claim 8, wherein the controller is further adapted to use sensing data of the reflex acting on external stimuli received during execution of a first, rheotaxic behavioral sequence of movements of the counterpart physical components to cause the robotic device to perform a second, taxic behavioral sequence of movements without interrupting the first behavioral sequence of movements. 12. The robotic device as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor is selected from the group consisting of a pitch inclinometer, a roll inclinometer, a directional compass, a bump sensor, a positionable antenna, and multiple positionable antennae. 13. The robotic device as recited in claim 12, wherein the controller is adapted to cause the positionable antenna to transition over an areal range to locate obstacles to movement of the device. 14. The robotic device as recited in claim 12, wherein the controller is adapted to measure an intensity and a direction of water flow using the multiple positionable antennae. 15. The robotic device as recited in claim 1, wherein the controller includes a stack-based command sequencer that is structured and arranged to manage a command stack of at least one future behavioral sequence of movements for sequential execution in a temporal order, the command stack being adapted to control variables of at least one of each of the counterpart physical components. 16. The robotic device as recited in claim 15, wherein the stack-based command sequencer is structured and arranged to establish a state change sequence of sequential future behavioral sequence of movements and to mediate between a second behavioral sequence of movements that is incompatible with another behavioral sequence of movements in the command stack. 17. The robotic device as recited in claim 1, wherein the controller includes an attention module that is adapted to perform at least one of: maintain discrete polling times for polling each of the at least on sensor; perform discrete polling in accordance with said discrete polling times; and identify a behavioral state of the robotic device based on a comparison of sensor data with a plurality of behavioral releasers. 18. The robotic device as recited in claim 15, wherein the controller is adapted to generate a plurality of step cycles based on the command stack, each step cycle having at least two swing phases and at least two stance phases. 19. The robotic device as recited in claim 18, wherein the at least one swing phase includes an early swing phase for modifying an elevation or depression of at least one of the counterpart physical components and a swing phase for modifying a propulsion level of the least one of the counterpart physical components and the at least one stance phase includes an antigravity phase also for modifying the elevation or depression of at least one of the counterpart physical components and a final stance phase for modifying a propulsion level of the least one of the counterpart physical components. 20. The robotic device as recited in claim 18, wherein the swing phase and the stance phase alternate during a complete duty cycle such that the early swing phase occurs before or concurrent with the antigravity phase and the swing phase occurs before or concurrent with the final stance phase. 