The invention is an adhesive composition comprising one or more polymers having a flexible backbone and silane moieties capable of silanol condensation; one or more hydrophobic silanes having one or more hydrocarbyloxy groups and one or more hydrocarbyl groups; one or more catalysts for the reaction of silane moieties with active hydrogen containing compounds. Preferably, the adhesive composition further comprises one or more heat stabilizers and/or light stabilizers. In another embodiment, the invention is a method of bonding a window to a coated substrate, such as a window in a vehicle, which comprises applying to the window or the coated substrate an adhesive as described; contacting the window with the coated substrate wherein the adhesive is located between the window and the substrate; and allowing the adhesive to cure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An adhesive composition comprising one or more polymers having a flexible backbone and silane moieties capable of silanol condensation; one or more hydrophobic silanes having one or more hydrocarbyloxy groups and one or more hydrocarbyl groups; and one or more catalysts for the reaction of silane moieties with active hydrogen containing compounds wherein the hydrophobic silanes correspond to the formula ##STR00006## wherein R.sup.3 is separately in each occurrence a hydrocarbyl or hydrocarboxy group; R.sup.4 is separately in each occurrence a hydrocarbyl group; and x is separately in each occurrence an integer of about 1 to about 9. 2. An adhesive composition according to claim 1 which further comprises one or more of a heat stabilizer or a light stabilizer. 3. An adhesive according to claim 2 wherein the groups bound on the silicon atoms comprise one or more of alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl or alkaryl groups and one or more alkyloxy, alkenyloxy, cycloalkyloxy or alkaryloxy groups. 4. An adhesive according to claim 3 wherein at least one of the ligands bound to each silicone atom is alkenyl and the remainder is alkyl or alkoxy. 5. An adhesive according to claim 4 wherein the alkenyl group on each silane atom is a vinyl group, the alkyl group is methyl or ethyl and the alkoxy group is methoxy or ethoxy. 6. An adhesive composition according to claim 1 wherein R.sup.3 is separately in each occurrence an alkyl, alkaryl, alkenyl, alkenyloxy, cycloalkyloxy, aralkyloxy, or alkoxy group; R.sup.4 is separately in each occurrence an alkyl, alkaryl or alkenyl group; x is separately in each occurrence an integer of about 1 to about 7. 7. An adhesive composition according to claim 1 wherein R.sup.3 is separately in each occurrence an alkyl or alkoxy group; R.sup.4 is separately in each occurrence an alkenyl group; x is separately in each occurrence an integer of about 1 to about 5. 8. An adhesive composition according to claim 2 comprising: A) from about 40 to about 80 parts by weight of one or more silane functional polymers; B) from about 0.1 to about 1.2 parts by weight of one or more hydrocarbyl silanes C) from about 0.01 to about 2.0 parts by weight of one or more catalysts; and D) from about 0.01 to about 5 parts by weight of one or more light stabilizers and/or heat stabilizers. 9. An adhesive according to claim 8 wherein the silane functional polymer has a backbone of a polyolefin, polyurethane, polyester or polyether. 10. A method of bonding glass to a painted substrate which comprises A) applying an adhesive according to claim 1 to either of glass or the unprimed painted substrate; B) contacting the glass and the unprimed painted substrate such that the adhesive is disposed between the painted substrate and the glass; and C) allowing the adhesive to cure to bond the glass to the painted substrate. 11. A method according to claim 10 wherein the painted substrate is the flange of an automobile adapted for holding a glass window into the automobile. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein both the painted substrate and the glass surface is unprimed. 13. A method according to claim 12 wherein the glass surface to which the adhesive is applied has a ceramic or organic frit applied thereto. 14. A method according to claim 10 wherein the adhesive further comprises one or more of a heat stabilizer or a light stabilizer. 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein the groups bound on the silicon atoms of the hydrocarbyl silane comprise one or more of alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl or alkaryl groups and one or more alkyloxy, alkenyloxy, cycloalkyloxy or alkaryloxy groups. 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein at least one of the ligands bound to each silicon atom is alkenyl and the remainder is alkyl or alkoxy. 17. A method according to claim 15 wherein the alkenyl group on each silicon atom is a vinyl group, the alkyl group is methyl or ethyl and the alkoxy group is methoxy or ethoxy. 18. A method according to claim 11 wherein the adhesive comprises D) from about 40 to about 80 parts by weight of one or more silane functional polymers; E) from about 0.1 to about 1.2 parts by weight of one or more hydrocarbyl silanes F) from about 0.01 to about 2.0 parts by weight of one or more catalysts; and D) from about 0.01 to about 5 parts by weight of one or more light stabilizers and heat stabilizers. 19. A method according to claim 10 wherein the silane functional polymer has a backbone of a polyolefin, polyurethane, polyester or polyether. 20. A window structure comprising a window bonded to a frame or a flange adapted to hold the window in place by means of an adhesive wherein the adhesive used to bond the window to the flange or frame corresponds to the adhesive of claim 1. 21. A method according to claim 10 wherein R.sup.3 is separately in each occurrence an alkyl, alkaryl, alkenyl, alkenyloxy, cycloalkyloxy, aralkyloxy, or alkoxy group; R.sup.4 is separately in each occurrence an alkyl, alkaryl or alkenyl group; x is separately in each occurrence an integer of about 1 to about 7. 22. A method according to claim 10 wherein R.sup.3 is separately in each occurrence an alkyl or alkoxy group; R.sup.4 is separately in each occurrence an alkenyl group; x is separately in each occurrence an integer of about 1 to about 5. 