A method and apparatus for positioning a substrate in a substrate processing chamber. The method includes placing the substrate on a substrate transfer blade, moving the substrate transfer blade to a first position located in a transfer chamber, and capturing at least one image that includes at least a portion of the substrate transfer blade and at least a portion of the substrate. The method also includes processing the image to determine a position of a predetermined portion of the substrate transfer blade and a position of predetermined portion of the substrate. The method further includes determining an offset between the position of the predetermined portion of the substrate transfer blade and the position of the predetermined portion of the substrate, and moving the substrate transfer blade to a second position located in the substrate processing chamber, wherein the second position is adjusted to account for the offset.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of positioning a substrate in a substrate processing chamber, the method comprising: moving the substrate to a first position located in a portion of the substrate processing chamber, wherein the substrate processing chamber includes at least one component comprising a substrate transfer blade; capturing at least one image that comprises at least a portion of the at least one component and at least a portion of the substrate; processing the at least one image to determine a position of a portion of the at least one component and a position of a portion of the substrate; determining, using the determined position of the portion of the at least one component and the determined position of the portion of the substrate, an offset between the position of the portion of the at least one component and the position of the portion of the substrate; and moving the substrate to a second position located in the substrate processing chamber, wherein the second position is adjusted to account for the offset. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the portion of the substrate processing chamber comprises a transfer chamber. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the portion of the at least one component is a center of the substrate transfer blade. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the second position is a position in which the substrate is centered with respect to the substrate transfer blade. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the portion of the substrate is a center of the substrate. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the substrate is a semiconductor wafer. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one component comprises a substrate support disposed in the substrate processing chamber. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the second position comprises a position on the substrate support. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the substrate support comprises a plurality of fiducial marks disposed on the substrate support. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the plurality of fiducial marks include structural features of the substrate support. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the fiducial marks are geometric shapes located on the substrate support. 12. A method of positioning a substrate in a substrate processing chamber, the method comprising: placing the substrate on a substrate transfer blade; moving the substrate transfer blade to a first position located in a transfer chamber; capturing at least one image that comprises at least a portion of the substrate transfer blade and at least a portion of the substrate; processing the at least one image to determine a position of a portion of the substrate transfer blade and a position of a portion of the substrate; determining, using the determined position of the portion of the at least one component and the determined position of the portion of the substrate, an offset between the position of the portion of the substrate transfer blade and the position of the portion of the substrate; and moving the substrate transfer blade to a second position located in the substrate processing chamber, wherein the second position is adjusted to account for the offset. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the second position is a position in which the substrate is centered with respect to the substrate transfer blade. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of processing the at least one image comprises the steps of: identifying at least one fiducial mark; calculating a location of the portion of the substrate transfer blade based on the location of the at least one fiducial mark; identifying an outer edge of the substrate; and calculating a location of the portion of the substrate. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the portion of the substrate transfer blade is a center of the substrate transfer blade and the portion of the substrate is a center of the substrate. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the at least one fiducial mark is fabricated on a peripheral edge of the substrate transfer blade. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the at least one fiducial marks are three fiducial marks located at a distance of less than 8 mm from a peripheral edge of the substrate when supported by the substrate transfer blade. 18. The method of claim 14 wherein the at least one fiducial mark is a geometric shape characterized by an optical reflectivity greater than a portion of the substrate transfer blade. 19. The method of claim 14 wherein the at least one fiducial mark is a geometric shape characterized by an optical reflectivity less than a portion of the substrate transfer blade. 