A surface inspection system, as well as related components and methods, are provided. The surface inspection system includes a beam source subsystem, a beam scanning subsystem, a workpiece movement subsystem, an optical collection and detection subsystem, and a processing subsystem. The system features a variable scan speed beam scanning subsystem, preferably using an acousto-optic deflector, with beam compensation, so that variable scanning speeds can be achieved. Also included are methods and systems for improving the signal to noise ratio by use of scatter reducing complements, and a system and method for selectively and repeatedly scanning a region of interest on the surface in order to provide additional observations of the region of interest.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system comprising: an illumination subsystem that projects a beam to the surface of the workpiece, the illumination subsystem comprising a plurality of lenses, each of the lenses having a known surface roughness, the plurality of lenses having a total surface roughness that does not exceed a selected amount; a collection subsystem for collecting scattered portions of the beam scattered from the surface of the workpiece, and a processing subsystem operatively coupled to the collection subsystem for processing signals received from the collection subsystem to provide information about the surface of the workpiece. 2. The surface inspection system as recited in claim 1, wherein the known surface roughness of each of the lenses does not exceed about 5 Angstroms. 3. A surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system comprising: an illumination subsystem that projects an optical beam to the surface of the workpiece, the illumination subsystem comprising an acousto-optical deflector through which the optical beam is projected, the optical beam comprising a collimated portion and a non-collimated portion, the illumination subsystem comprising a beam scan absorbing system for absorbing the non-collimated portion of the optical beam comprising scatter absorbing elements comprising at least one piece of black glass formed from a selected glass type and disposed at the Brewster angle for the selected glass type and relative to the acousto-optical deflector such that, when the acousto-optical deflector is on, the optical beam is diffracted away from the glass and, when the acousto-optical deflector is off, the glass absorbs the zero order optical beam; a collection subsystem for collecting reflected light and scattered light formed by the impinging of the optical beam on the surface of the workpiece; a processing subsystem operatively coupled to the collection subsystem for processing signals received from the collection subsystem to provide information about the surface of the workpiece. 4. The surface inspection system as recited in claim 3, wherein the scatter absorbing elements comprises at least one aperture that is sized to allow the passing of the collimated portion of the optical beam but not passing of the non-collimated portion. 5. The surface inspection system as recited in claim 3, wherein the scatter absorbing elements comprise optical threads arranged to absorb scatter. 6. The surface inspection system as recited in claim 3, wherein the scatter absorbing elements comprise a polarizing element having a selected polarization and arranged to block scatter having a polarization different from the selected polarization. 7. The surface inspection system as recited in claim 3, wherein the scatter absorbing elements comprise optical baffling arranged to absorb scatter. 8. A method for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, in which an incident beam is projected toward the surface of the workpiece, and the surface of the workpiece is scanned, the method comprising the steps of: scanning a selected region of a workpiece to generate a scan output comprising a set of signals representative of the effects on the surface of the incident beam, moving a workpiece relative to the incident scanned beam; repeatedly scanning the selected region in order to generate a repeated scan output of the selected region, wherein the repeated scan output comprises a plurality of scan outputs for the selected region; and aggregating the repeated scan output. 9. A method for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, as recited in claim 8, wherein scanning the selected region further comprises collecting observations from the selected region from a plurality of collection positions above the surface of the workpiece to obtain multi-position scan output comprising a plurality of scan outputs from the plurality of collection positions for the selected region; wherein repeatedly scanning the selected region further comprises collecting repeated observations of the selected region from a plurality of collection positions above the surface to obtain repeated multi-position scan output comprising a plurality of repeated scan outputs from the plurality of collection positions for the selected region. 10. A method for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, as recited in claim 8, wherein the selected region has a plurality of locations, wherein scanning the selected region comprises scanning the surface at the plurality of locations to generate a location-specific scan output representative of the effects at a selected location on the surface of the incident beam, and wherein repeatedly scanning the selected region further comprises repeatedly scanning the surface at the plurality of locations to generate a location-specific repeated scan output for each of said locations, the location-specific repeated scan output comprising a set of signals associated with a selected location over the repeated scans. 11. A method for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, as recited in claim 10, wherein scanning the selected region further comprises collecting observations of the selected region from a plurality of collection positions above the surface of the workpiece; and wherein repeatedly scanning the surface at the plurality of locations further comprises collecting repeated observations of the plurality of locations from the plurality of collector positions to obtain repeated location-specific multi-position scan output for each of said locations, the repeated location-specific multi-position scan output comprising a set of signals associated with a selected location, observed at the plurality of collection positions, over the repeated scans. 12. A method for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, as recited in claim 8, wherein repeatedly scanning a selected scan region of the workpiece further comprises selecting a quantity of scan repetitions in order to define a selected number of scans to be run on the selected scan region of the surface. 13. A method for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, as recited in claim 8, wherein aggregating the repeated scan output comprises averaging the repeated scan output. 14. A method for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, as recited in claim 10, further comprising frame averaging the location-specific repeated scan output, the frame averaging comprising averaging each of the signals associated with a sample location within a selected scan region over the set of repeated scans. 15. A method for inspecting the surface of a workpiece, as recited in claim 11, further comprising frame averaging the repeated location-specific multi-position scan output, the frame averaging comprising averaging each of the signals associated with a location within a selected scan region from each collector over the set of repeated scans. 