Sample preparation device and method for desalting and concentrating samples prior to further analysis such as by MALDI TOF and/or electro-spray ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry. The device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention contains a three dimensional structure preferably comprising a plurality of sorptive particles entrapped in a porous polymer matrix so as to form a device capable of carrying out solid phase extraction. The device is manufactured by introducing casting solution containing polymer and optionally particles into a housing, and subsequently exposing the device to a quench bath for a time sufficient to allow for solvent exchange and precipitation to form the composite structure in the housing. The present invention is also directed towards a method of sample preparation using the device of the present invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sample preparation device comprising a housing and a composite structure positioned in said housing, said composite structure comprising a three dimensional structure comprising a plurality of sorptive particles entrapped in a porous polymer matrix, said composite structure having a porosity and a density such that upon the introduction of air through said composite structure at 10 psi, airflow is from about 2.5 liters/minute/cm.sup.2 to less than 51 liters/minute/cm.sup.2. 2. The sample preparation device of claim 1, wherein the airflow through said composite structure is about 23 liters/minute/cm.sup.2 at 10 psi. 3. The sample preparation device of claim 1, wherein said housing is a drain of a well of a multi-well plate. 4. The sample preparation device of claim 1, wherein said housing comprises at least one support element supporting said composite structure. 5. In a sample preparation device comprising a three dimensional structure comprising a plurality of sorptive particles entrapped in a porous polymer matrix and having an aspect ratio of less than about 10 for capturing solute so as to purify a sample having contaminants to a predetermined degree after multiple passes of said sample through said three dimensional structure over a predetermined amount of time, the improvement comprising: a three dimensional structure in said device having a sufficient density so that upon application of a driving force, said sample is purified to at least said predetermined degree after only a single pass of said sample through said structure over said predetermined amount of time. 6. The sample preparation device of claim 5, wherein said device comprises a plurality of apertures, each aperture having an open top and an open bottom, and wherein said three dimensional structure is formed in each of said apertures. 7. The sample preparation device of claim 6, wherein each of said apertures consists of multiple holes. 8. The sample preparation device of claim 6, wherein the open top is larger than the open bottom. 9. The sample preparation device of claim 6, wherein said apertures comprise at least one support element for supporting said structure. 10. The sample preparation device of claim 5, wherein said driving force is vacuum. 