A filter element, including a filter medium, on which a seal is situated indirectly or directly, which is used for separating the filter intake side from the filter discharge side. The filter medium comprises a fibrous material. The seal is applied indirectly or directly to the filter medium in the extrusion method (FIG. 1).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A filter element, comprising a filter medium, on which an extruded seal formed separately from the filter element is indirectly or directly secured, which is used for separating the filter intake side from the filter outflow side, wherein the filter medium comprises a fibrous material with a side surface for adhering to the extruded seal, and wherein the extruded seal is directly secured to the side surface of the filter medium and does not extend to upper or lower fold edges of the filter medium, a material forming the extruded seal being selected to penetrate a fiber scrim of the side surface of the filter medium to secure the seal. 2. The filter element according to claim 1, wherein in the event of an indirect bond between filter medium and seal, a medium is provided as an intermediate layer forming the side surface, which comprises a fibrous material, and this medium being bonded to the filter medium through gluing, welding, or embossing. 3. The filter element according to claim 1, wherein the bond between one of the filter medium and an intermediate layer and the seal has an adhesive force which withstands a tensile load greater than 1 N/mm.sup.2. 4. The filter element according to claim 1, wherein the seal comprises a foamed material. 5. The filter element according to claim 1, wherein the seal is a thermoplastic vulcanizate or an elastomer or a thermoplastic elastomer or a duroplastic or a polyurethane or a silicone. 6. The filter element according to claim 1, wherein the seal is partially situated on intermediate layers, which comprise polymers having a roughed or textured surface for the frictional connection of the intermediate layers to the seal. 7. The filter element according to claim 6, wherein the polymers comprise at least one of polypropylene, polyamide and polystyrene. 8. The filter element according to claim 1, wherein the seal comprises various materials or material components and/or has multiple layers. 9. The filter element according to claim 1, wherein the extruded seal includes a circumferentially closed wall profile defining a cavity at an interior of the seal. 