A rotary injection molding apparatus and method for manufacturing products containing elastomeric material within multi-section single cavity molds. The apparatus includes a modular frame supporting an injection molding operation station having an injector assembly with a pressure sensitive nozzle assembly. The injector assembly is engaged with an extruder assembly at a check valve assembly. A mold servicer assembly is provided for assembly and disassembly of multi-section single cavity molds. A robotic arm assembly is supported on the modular frame and positioned for inserting and removing products or product components from disassembled molds. Finally; a rotating table is provided on the frame which has a plurality of work station positions supporting clamping assemblies for clamping single cavity molds around the periphery of the rotating table.
Claims We claim: 1. An injection molding apparatus for manufacturing products containing elastomeric material within single cavity molds, said apparatus comprising, a modular frame supporting an injection molding operation station including an injector assembly having a pressure sensitive nozzle assembly, the injector assembly engaged with an extruder assembly at a check valve assembly, and a mold servicer assembly for vertical lifting and lowering of sections of single cavity molds for assembly and disassembly of single cavity molds, a robotic assembly positioned for inserting and removing products or product components from positions within said injection molding apparatus; and a rotating table having a plurality of positions along the periphery of the rotating table to move a single cavity mold into and out of engagement with the injection molding operation station, each position supporting a clamping assembly for clamping a single cavity mold. 2. The injection molding apparatus of claim 1 wherein the rotating table has a substantially circular configuration. 3. The injection molding apparatus of claim 2 wherein operation of the injector assembly, nozzle assembly, extruder assembly, robotic assembly, rotating table and clamping assemblies are all computer controlled by a central programmable controller. 4. The injection molding apparatus of claim 1 wherein the robotic assembly is positioned at a corner of the modular frame to permit use of the robotic assembly at one or more adjacent injection molding systems. 5. The injection molding apparatus of claim 1 wherein the modular frame includes sidewalls which are aluminum castings. 6. The injection molding apparatus of claim 1 wherein said injector assembly and extruder assembly are configured to enable injection pressures sufficient to initiate curing of the product. 7. The injection molding apparatus of claim 1 wherein said mold servicer assembly includes a bronze central drive cam for improved wear resistance. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the injector assembly and the extruder assembly are supported at an angle of between 20 and 25 degrees with respect to a central axis between sidewalls of the modular frame. 9. An injection molding apparatus for manufacturing products containing elastomeric material within single cavity molds, said apparatus comprising, a modular frame supporting an injection molding operation station including an injector assembly having a pressure sensitive nozzle assembly, the injector assembly engaged with an extruder assembly at a check valve assembly, and a mold servicer assembly for assembly and disassembly of single cavity molds, the mold servicer assembly having a central drive cam for vertical lifting and lowering of sections of single cavity molds, a robotic assembly positioned for inserting and removing products or product components from positions within said injection molding apparatus; a substantially circular rotating table having a plurality of positions along the periphery of the rotating table to move a single cavity mold into and out of engagement with the injection molding operation station, each position supporting a clamping assembly for clamping a single cavity mold; and the injector assembly, nozzle assembly, extruder assembly, robotic assembly, rotating table and clamping assemblies are all computer controlled by a central programmable controller. 10. The injection molding apparatus of claim 9 wherein the robotic assembly is positioned at a corner of the modular frame to permit use of the robotic assembly at one or more adjacent injection molding systems. 11. The injection molding apparatus of claim 9 wherein said mold servicer assembly central drive cam is bronze for improved wear resistance. 