The invention provides methods and apparatus for producing flexible, stretchable, and/or elastic products comprised principally of material such as natural elastomers and other synthetic polymers. The method and apparatus for producing stretchable products by spraying product material over a workpiece former, and method and apparatus for creating perforated products by spraying product material over a perforated surface or partly breathable surface, The invention also provides methods and apparatus for making double sided fibre coating of the product and, or to at least coating the product surface on the side facing the wall without the need for removing the product from the wall. The method and apparatus also enable easy removal of the product from the former. Workpiece formers are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for producing a stretchable removable workpiece, the workpiece having predetermined areas of equal or different thicknesses and having an inner surface and an outer surface with loose fibers adhering thereto, the method comprising: (1) providing a workpiece former having a surface; (2) applying a wetting agent onto at least a portion of the surface of the workpiece former so as to form a wetted surface on the workpiece former; (3) spraying loose fibres onto at least a portion of the wetted surface on the workpiece former, wherein the loose fibres temporarily adheres to the wetted surface to form a fibre coated surface; (4) spraying liquid product material onto at least a portion of the fibre coated surface of the workpiece former in a controlled manner so as to form a stretchable removable workpiece having predetermined areas of equal or different thicknesses and having an inner surface and an outer surface, wherein at least a portion of the inner surface of the workpiece has the loose fibres adhering thereto and wherein said spraying of liquid product material is controlled by adjusting the: (a) relative position of the sprayer and the surface of the workpiece former; (b) spray fan pattern; (c) amount of sprayed material delivered per unit time; (d) timing or duration of the spraying; or (e) material atomization; and (5) spraying loose fibres onto at least a portion of the outer surface of the workpiece, wherein the loose fibres adhere to the outer surface of the workpiece. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the workpiece former includes a single or a plurality of perforations, the spraying is carried out such that no product material layer forms over the single or a plurality of perforations on the workpiece former so as to form the workpiece including at least one perforation. 3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising administering a gas or a liquid under suitable pressure through the workpiece former during the spraying so as to form the workpiece including at least one perforation, wherein the workpiece former includes at least one of (i) a single or a plurality of perforations and (ii) breathable components. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising step (3) administering a gas or a liquid under suitable pressure through the workpiece former so as to push at least a portion of the workpiece away from the workpiece former, wherein the workpiece former is made of breathable material or includes breathable components. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the outer surface of the workpiece is not fully cured. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the outer surface of the workpiece includes an added layer of adhesive. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the outer surface of the workpiece includes an added layer of liquid product material. 