A multi-agent autonomous system for exploration of hazardous or inaccessible locations. The multi-agent autonomous system includes simple surface-based agents or craft controlled by an airborne tracking and command system. The airborne tracking and command system includes an instrument suite used to image an operational area and any craft deployed within the operational area. The image data is used to identify the craft, targets for exploration, and obstacles in the operational area. The tracking and command system determines paths for the surface-based craft using the identified targets and obstacles and commands the craft using simple movement commands to move through the operational area to the targets while avoiding the obstacles. Each craft includes its own instrument suite to collect information about the operational area that is transmitted back to the tracking and command system. The tracking and command system may be further coupled to a satellite system to provide additional image information about the operational area and provide operational and location commands to the tracking and command system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of gathering and processing information from an area comprising: providing a first sensor with a first perspective of the area; providing a second sensor with a second perspective of the area; providing a processor in communication with the first sensor and the second sensor; sensing a first characteristic of the area with the first sensor to generate a first dataset; sensing a second characteristic of at least a portion of the area with the second sensor to generate a second dataset; generating a derived dataset by the processor integrating the first dataset and the second dataset; and detecting a feature in the area by analyzing one or more of the first dataset, the second dataset, or the derived dataset, wherein a level of detail of the second dataset is greater than a level of detail of the first dataset, wherein one of the first sensor or the second sensor is capable of moving in at least two dimensions relative to the other one of the first sensor or the second sensor, and wherein the feature comprises a location of one of the first sensor or the second sensor. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting at least one of the first dataset, the second dataset, or the derived dataset to a remote location. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first dataset, the second dataset, or the derived dataset is imaging information. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first characteristic and the second characteristic are different. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first characteristic or the second characteristic includes shape information. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first perspective and the second perspective are different. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first perspective or the second perspective is a spatio-temporal perspective. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the portion of the area is a smaller size than the area. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the feature further comprises a target for investigation. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising investigating the target. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the feature further comprises an obstacle. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the feature further comprises a directional heading of the one of the first sensor or the second sensor. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the feature further comprises a velocity of the one of the first sensor or the second sensor. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the other one of the first sensor or the second sensor is immobile. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising comparing at least two of the first dataset, the second dataset, or the derived dataset. 16. A method of gathering and processing information from a first area and a second area comprising: providing a first sensor with a perspective of the first area; providing a second sensor with a perspective of the second area; providing a processor in communication with the first sensor and the second sensor; sensing a first characteristic of the first area with the first sensor to generate a first dataset; sensing a second characteristic of the second area with the second sensor to generate a second dataset; and generating a derived dataset by the processor integrating the first dataset and the second dataset, wherein the first sensor is capable of moving in at least two dimensions relative to the second sensor, wherein the derived dataset includes spatial information between the first dataset and the second dataset over time, wherein the second sensor is associated with a craft, and wherein the first sensor is capable of unconstrained movement relative to operation of the craft. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising transmitting at least one of the first dataset, the second dataset, or the derived dataset to a remote location. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein a level of detail of the first dataset and a level of detail of the second dataset are different. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein at least one of the first dataset, the second dataset, or the derived dataset is imaging information. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein at least a portion of the first area and at least a portion of the second area overlap. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein the first characteristic and the second characteristic are different. 22. The method of claim 16, wherein the second sensor is immobile. 23. The method of claim 16, wherein at least one of the first characteristic or the second characteristic includes shape information. 24. The method of claim 16, further comprising comparing at least two of the first dataset, the second dataset, or the derived dataset. 25. A method of gathering and processing information from an area comprising: providing a first sensor with a first perspective of the area; providing a second sensor with a second perspective of the area; providing a processor in communication with the first sensor and the second sensor; sensing a first characteristic of the area with the first sensor to generate a first dataset; sensing a second characteristic of at least a portion of the area with the second sensor to generate a second dataset; and generating a derived dataset by the processor integrating the first dataset and the second dataset, wherein a level of detail of the second dataset is greater than a level of detail of the first dataset, wherein one of the first sensor or the second sensor is capable of moving in at least two dimensions relative to the other one of the first sensor or the second sensor, wherein the other one of the first sensor or the second sensor is associated with a craft, and wherein the one of the first sensor or the second sensor is capable of unconstrained movement relative to operation of the craft. 26. A method of gathering and processing information from an area comprising: providing a first sensor with a first perspective of the area; providing a second sensor with a second perspective of the area; providing a processor in communication with the first sensor and the second sensor; sensing a first characteristic of the area with the first sensor to generate a first dataset; sensing a second characteristic of at least a portion of the area with the second sensor to generate a second dataset; generating a derived dataset by the processor integrating the first dataset and the second dataset; and detecting a feature in the area by analyzing one or more of the first dataset, the second dataset, or the derived dataset, wherein a level of detail of the second dataset is greater than a level of detail of the first dataset, wherein one of the first sensor or the second sensor is capable of moving in at least two dimensions relative to the other one of the first sensor or the second sensor, and wherein the feature is a directional heading of one of the first sensor or the second sensor. 27. A method of gathering and processing information from an area comprising: providing a first sensor with a first perspective of the area; providing a second sensor with a second perspective of the area; providing a processor in communication with the first sensor and the second sensor; sensing a first characteristic of the area with the first sensor to generate a first dataset; sensing a second characteristic of at least a portion of the area with the second sensor to generate a second dataset; generating a derived dataset by the processor integrating the first dataset and the second dataset; and detecting a feature in the area by analyzing one or more of the first dataset, the second dataset, or the derived dataset, wherein a level of detail of the second dataset is greater than a level of detail of the first dataset, wherein one of the first sensor or the second sensor is capable of moving in at least two dimensions relative to the other one of the first sensor or the second sensor, and wherein the feature is a velocity of one of the first sensor or the second sensor. 