A buffer station provides potential improvement for the operation of a facility. By storing to-be-accessed workpieces in the buffer stations of an equipment, the operation of the facility is not interrupted when the equipment is down. The workpieces can be retrieved through emergency access port of the buffer station, thus ensure the continuous supply of workpieces for the workpiece flow of the facility. Algorithm for getting the needed workpieces to the buffer station is also provided through a controller or a computer mechanism. The buffer station can be incorporated in a stocker, such as wafer stocker or reticle stocker.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method to provide continuous operations of a facility when an equipment in the facility fails, the equipment having a chamber for holding the workpieces, the method comprising: storing a plurality of workpieces that are queued to be processed in a buffer station of the equipment, the buffer station separated from the chamber of the equipment, wherein the buffer station comprises an emergency access for externally accessing the workpieces during the time of the equipment failure without exposing the workpieces in the chamber of the equipment. 2. A method as in claim 1 further comprising determining a plurality of workpieces needed to be processed in a next predetermined period. 3. A method as in claim 1 wherein the next predetermined period is the average time needed to repair the equipment. 4. A method as in claim 1 wherein the emergency access is performed by an operator outside the equipment. 5. A method as in claim 1 wherein the buffer station is an IO station of the equipment with an emergency access. 6. A method to provide continuous operations of a facility comprising an equipment, the method comprising: retrieving a plurality of workpieces that are queued to be processed from within the equipment; storing the retrieved workpieces in a buffer station of the equipment, the buffer station separated from a storage chamber of the equipment, wherein the buffer station comprises an emergency access for externally accessing the workpieces during the time of the equipment failure the emergency access allowing removal of the workpieces in the buffer station without exposing the workpieces in the storage chamber; moving the workpieces from the buffer station to a separate IO station, wherein the IO station comprises an external access to transfer the workpiece outside the equipment. 7. A method as in claim 6 wherein the workpieces are stored in a plurality of containers. 8. A method as in claim 6 further comprising determining a plurality of workpieces needed to be processed in a next predetermined period. 9. A method as in claim 6 wherein the next predetermined period is the next 24 hours. 10. A method as in claim 6 wherein the next predetermined period is the average time needed to repair the equipment. 11. A method as in claim 6 wherein determining the needed workpieces is based on the workpiece flow operation of the facility. 12. A method as in claim 6 wherein the emergency access is performed by an operator outside the equipment. 13. A method to improve reliability of a workpiece stocker equipment, comprising: determining the workpieces that will be needed to be removed from the stocker for a next predetermined period; storing the workpieces in a buffer station of the stocker, the buffer station separated from a storage chamber of the stocker; wherein the buffer station comprises an emergency access for externally accessing the workpieces during the time of the stocker failure the emergency access allowing removal of the workpieces in the buffer station without exposing the workpieces in the storage chamber of the stocker, and wherein the buffer station comprises a normal access from the stocker for accessing the workpieces during the normal operation of the stocker. 14. A method as in claim 13 wherein the workpieces are stored in a plurality of containers. 15. A method as in claim 13 wherein the next predetermined period is the next 24 hours. 16. A method as in claim 13 wherein the next predetermined period is the average time needed to repair the equipment. 17. A method as in claim 13 wherein the emergency access is performed by an operator outside the equipment. 18. A machine readable medium containing machine executable program instructions which, when executed by a data processing system, cause the data processing system to perform a method for improving continuous operation of a facility, the method comprising: determining a plurality of workpieces that will be needed to be removed from the equipment for a next predetermined period, wherein the determined workpieces are removed from the equipment and stored in a buffer station, the buffer station separated from a storage chamber of the equipment, the buffer station comprising an emergency access for externally accessing the workpieces during the time of the equipment failure, the emergency access allowing removal of the workpieces in the buffer station without exposing the workpieces in the storage chamber of the equipment. 19. A medium as in claim 18 wherein the next predetermined period is the average time needed to repair the equipment. 20. A medium as in claim 18 wherein the equipment comprises a wafer stocker, a plat panel display stocker, or a reticle stocker. 