An apparatus for coupling with a mating coupling module to facilitate the joining of two disjoined structures without requiring precise alignment between the disjoined structures during the coupling of them may include a rotating drive mechanism, a hollow cylindrical body operatively connected to the rotating drive mechanism, wherein the hollow cylindrical body has at least one internal spiral channel, and at least one connector claw positioned within the hollow cylindrical body and guided by the internal spiral channel, wherein the at least one connector claw is configured to extend outwardly from the coupling module to engage the mating coupling module when brought in close proximity but not necessarily in precise alignment with the mating coupling module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A coupling module for coupling with a mating coupling module to facilitate the joining of two disjoined structures, each attached to one of the coupling modules, without requiring precise alignment between the disjoined structures during the coupling of the structures, the coupling module comprising: a hollow cylindrical body configured to be rotated about an axis of the cylindrical body, the hollow cylindrical body having at least one internal spiral channel; a drive mechanism operatively connected to the hollow cylindrical body and configured to cause the hollow cylindrical body to rotate about the axis of the cylindrical body; a substantially circular plate within the hollow cylindrical body, configured to rotate within the hollow cylindrical body, and having at least one detent configured to slidably engage the spiral channel in the hollow cylindrical body during rotation of the substantially circular plate with respect to the hollow cylindrical body such that the substantially circular plate slides longitudinally within the spiral channel while rotating; and a connector claw attached to the substantially circular connector plate and configured to protrude outwardly from the coupling module and to engage a corresponding claw on the mating coupling during rotation of the substantially circular plate when brought in close proximity but not necessarily in precise alignment with the mating coupling module. 2. The coupling module of claim 1 wherein the connector claw is a first connector claw and further comprising a second connector claw attached to the substantially circular connector plate and configured to engage a corresponding claw on the mating coupling module during rotation of the substantially circular plate. 3. The coupling module of claim 2 wherein the first and the second connector claws are attached to opposite sides of the substantially circular plate and face in opposite directions. 4. The coupling module of claim 1 wherein the connector claw includes a tapered edge. 5. The coupling module of claim 1 further comprising a stop mechanism configured to prevent the substantially circular plate from rotating with respect to the hollow cylindrical body. 6. The coupling module of claim 5 wherein the stop mechanism is configured to prevent the substantially circular plate from rotating with respect to the hollow cylindrical body only when the detent engages the internal spiral channel at an end of that channel. 7. The coupling module of claim 5 wherein the stop mechanism includes a sleeve positioned around the axis of the cylindrical body. 8. A coupling module for coupling with a mating coupling module to facilitate the joining of two disjoined structures without requiring precise alignment between the disjoined structures during the coupling of the structures, comprising: a rotating drive mechanism; a hollow cylindrical body operatively connected to the rotating drive mechanism, wherein the hollow cylindrical body has at least one internal spiral channel; at least one connector claw positioned within the hollow cylindrical body and guided by the internal spiral channel, wherein the at least one connector claw is configured to extend outwardly from the coupling module to engage the mating coupling module when brought in close proximity but not necessarily in precise alignment with the mating coupling module; a primary drive gear, the primary drive gear being configured to rotate along a circular path and driven by the rotating drive mechanism, wherein the primary drive gear is further operatively connected to the hollow cylindrical body so as to rotate with the hollow cylindrical body in unison; a connector plate, the connector plate being operatively connected to the at least one connector claw and positioned within the hollow cylindrical body, wherein the connector plate is guided by the at least one internal spiral channel; a base portion with a fixed main shaft so as to provide structural support for the rotating drive mechanism, the primary gear, the hollow cylindrical body, and the connector plate; a top portion, the top portion encasing the rotating drive mechanism and the primary gear but otherwise exposing the connector plate, wherein the top portion is attached and substantially parallel to the base portion with the fixed main shaft and further comprises an opening for at least one guiding pin; and a center shaft flanged sleeve with at least one external groove so as to prevent the connector plate from turning with the hollow cylindrical body until reaching a maximum protruding range, wherein the center shaft flanged sleeve is attached by a detent mechanism to the base portion with the fixed main shaft. 9. The coupling module of claim 8 wherein the hollow cylindrical body further comprises a plurality of internal spiral channels so as to raise the connector plate to the maximum protruding range. 10. The coupling module of claim 9 further comprising a pin drive gear connected to the hollow cylindrical body by a detent mechanism, wherein the pin drive gear rotates at least one internal lead screw so as to push a respective guiding pin outward. 11. The coupling module of claim 10 wherein the at least one connector claw extends outwardly by rotational motion so as to enter the hollow cylindrical body of the mating module when brought in close proximity but not necessarily in precise alignment to the mating module. 12. The coupling module of claim 11 wherein the at least one connector claw independently retracts inwardly by rotational motion so as to exit the hollow cylindrical body of the mating module. 13. A coupling module for coupling to a mating coupling module to facilitate the joining of two disjoined structures without requiring precise alignment between the disjoined structures during the coupling of the structures, comprising: a rotating drive mechanism; a first connector claw operatively connected to the rotating drive mechanism, wherein the first connector claw outwardly extends so as to allow the first connector claw to engage a second connector claw of the mating coupling module and draw the coupling module together with the mating coupling module; a primary drive gear, the primary drive gear being configured to rotate along a circular path and driven by the rotating drive mechanism; a hollow cylindrical body, the hollow cylindrical body being operatively connected to the primary drive gear and configured to rotate in unison with the primary drive gear, wherein the hollow cylindrical body further comprises at least one internal spiral channel so as to guide the extension of the first connector claw toward the second connector claw of the mating coupling module; a first connector plate, the first connector plate being operatively connected to the first connector claw and positioned within the hollow cylindrical body, wherein the first connector plate further comprises a plurality of first connector claws outwardly extending from the first connector plate; a base portion having a fixed main shaft so as to provide structural support for the rotating drive mechanism, the primary gear, the hollow cylindrical body, and the first connector plate; a top portion, the top portion being attached to and substantially parallel with the base portion and further comprising an opening for at least one guiding pin; and a center shaft sleeve having a flanged end with at least one external groove so as to prevent the first connector plate from turning with the hollow cylindrical body until reaching a maximum protruding range, wherein the center shaft sleeve is attached by detent mechanism to the base portion. 14. The coupling module of claim 13 wherein the hollow cylindrical body further comprises a plurality of internal spiral channels so as to raise the first connector plate to the maximum protruding range. 15. The coupling module of claim 14 further comprising a pin drive gear connected to the hollow cylindrical body by at least one detent mechanism, wherein the pin drive gear rotates at least one internal lead screw so as to push a guiding pin outward, the guiding pin comprising a spherical end so as to correspond to a guiding hole of the mating coupling module. 16. The coupling module of claim 15 wherein the first connector plate extends outwardly by rotational motion so as to enter the hollow cylindrical body of the mating coupling module when brought in close proximity to the mating coupling module. 17. The coupling module of claim 16 wherein the first connector plate independently retracts inwardly by reverse rotational motion so as to exit the hollow cylindrical body of the mating module. 