The disclosed technology enables manufacturers to efficiently design and manufacture structural wall panels, floor panels and roof panels from cold-formed steel for use in residential and commercial construction. The panels are individual components that can be installed at a building site to form a structure that includes walls, floor and a roof. Structures may be manufactured in a manufacturing facility and delivered to a construction site for installation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for designing an enclosure using prefabricated panels, the method comprising the steps of: receiving a design for a structure; creating a model of the structure comprised of prefabricated cold form steel panels in response to the design; generating, in response to the model, structural specifications for the prefabricated panels, the structural specifications comprising specifications for manufacturing and assembling cold form steel parts into panels. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of generating, in response to the structural specifications, a parts list for the prefabricated panels. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: manufacturing the prefabricated panels in accordance with the structural specifications; and collecting the prefabricated panels and other parts for delivery. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the collecting step comprises organizing the panels in a specific order in accordance with the structural specifications to facilitate the ease and speed of assembly upon delivery to a construction site. 5. The method of claim 3, further comprising the steps of: delivering the panels to a construction site; and assembling the panels into a structure in accordance with the structural specifications. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the prefabricated panels are selected from a predetermined list of panel sizes and shapes. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the prefabricated panels may be of any size and shape to fit the design for the structure. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the structural specifications comprise at least one of panel information, panel material information, individual panel assembly information, structure assembly information, job number information, user information, and structure design information. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the model of the structure is created by a computer-aided design tool. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the computer-aided design tool comprises a database of acceptable panel configurations. 11. A computer-aided design tool for designing a structure using prefabricated panels, comprising: an input function for receiving a design for a structure; a modeling function for generating a model of the structure based on the received design information; a database of cold form steel panel configurations; a panel application function adapted to fit appropriate panels to the generated model; and an output function for generating structural specifications for the required structural panels, the specifications comprising specifications for manufacturing and assembling cold form steel pads into panels. 12. A manufacturing system for manufacturing a steel structure, comprising: a computer-aided design system for creating a model of a building structure to be manufactured using cold form steel panels and for generating structural specifications for the panels based on the model, the structural specifications comprising specifications for manufacturing and assembling cold form steel parts into panels; and a manufacturing enterprise management system for managing manufacture of each of the panels according to the generated structural specifications. 13. The manufacturing system of claim 12, wherein the manufacturing enterprise system generates specifications for panels, bills of materials for panels, panel fabrication drawings, and panel installation drawings. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising: a material optimizer for cutting material and forming the metal into a part of a panel according to the specifications; and a material handling system including a tray, conveyor, and rails for collecting parts, including parts formed by the material optimizer, for assembly as described in the fabrication drawings. 15. The system of claim 14, further comprising: a pre-fastener for fastening parts into a subassembly as described in the fabrication drawings; a framing table for assembling parts and/or subassemblies into a panel as described in the fabrication drawings; and a sheathing table for applying a coating or covering to the panel as described in the fabrication drawings. 16. The system of claim 15, further comprising: an overhead gantry system including a crane and a grabbing device for holding an assembled panel and collecting panels for delivery. 