A vehicle framing system for framing an automotive vehicle body from a plurality of separate body components wherein the body components each include a reference surface. The system includes an assembly station having spaced-apart frame members positioned so that, when a vehicle carrier supporting the vehicle body components is positioned at the assembly station, the frame members extend along opposite sides of the vehicle carrier. At least two docking stations are secured to each frame member at predetermined locations. A robot mounts its associated tool arm with a docking station. At least one set of reference block and framing clamp is secured to each tool arm and these framing clamps maintain the reference surfaces of the vehicle body components against the reference blocks to hold the vehicle components at a predetermined position relative to each other. After each robot positions each associated tool arm with the docking station, the robot disengages from the tool arm and then welds the body components together by a welding gun carried by the robots.
Claims We claim: 1. A coupling assembly coupling a robotic arm and a tool arm comprising: a plate mounted to the tool arm, said plate having spaced-apart ends and spaced-apart sides which extend between said plate ends and taper outwardly from each other, a coupler mounted to the robotic arm, said coupler having a cavity with sides complementary in shape to said plate, wherein with said plate positioned within said coupler cavity, said plate is movable in an end-to-end direction between an engaged position in which said coupler and said plate are mechanically locked together and a disengaged position in which said coupler and said plate are mechanically unlocked from each other, a latch assembly mounted to said coupler and movable between a locked position in which said latch assembly locks said coupler and said plate in said engaged position and an unlocked position in which said coupler and said plate are freely movable from said engaged position to said disengaged position, wherein said plate includes an opening and wherein said latch assembly comprises a latch bar pivotally mounted to said coupler between an extended position in which said latch bar extends into said plate opening when said plate and coupler are in said engaged position to thereby prevent movement of said coupler and said plate from said engaged position to said disengaged position, and a retracted position in which said latch bar is retracted from said plate opening, a spring which resiliently urges said latch bar toward said extended position, an actuator plate mounted to said coupler and movable between a first position and a second position, said actuator plate being connected to said latch bar so that said latch bar pivots between said extended and said retracted positions in unison as said actuator plate moves between said first and second positions, respectively, and a fluid-operated diaphragm mounted to said coupler in abutment with said actuator plate so that, upon inflation, said diaphragm moves said actuator plate from said first position and to said second position sufficient to fully retract the latch bar. 2. The coupling assembly as defined in claim 1 wherein said coupler includes a manual release opening open to said latch assembly. 3. The coupling assembly as defined in claim 1 wherein said sides of said plate taper toward each other along a top surface of said plate and wherein said coupler includes surfaces complementary to said tapered top surface of said plate. 