An integrated forming, assembly and inspection system includes a plurality of robotic material conveyors. The integrated system also includes a forming subsystem including sheet metal drawing apparatus, a roller hemming subsystem, and an inspection subsystem. The plurality of robotic material conveyors are operable to convey assembly workpieces to and from the subsystems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated forming, assembly and inspection system comprising: a plurality of robotic material conveyors; first and second sublines arranged in a parallel relationship to each other; said first subline including a plurality of said robotic material conveyors and a forming subsystem including at least one sheet metal drawing apparatus; said second subline including a plurality of said robotic material conveyors, a forming subsystem including at least one sheet metal drawing apparatus, and a pre-hemming subsystem; a roller hemming subsystem; and an inspection subsystem; said first and second sublines being arranged in series with said roller hemming subsystem, and said rolling hemming subsystem being arranged in series with said inspection subsystem; said plurality of robotic material conveyors being operable to convey assembly workpieces to and from said subsystems. 2. The integrated system of claim 1, including a laser trim subsystem. 3. The integrated system of claim 1, including a magnetic pulse subsystem. 4. The integrated system of claim 1, wherein said forming subsystem includes a sheet metal restrike apparatus. 5. The integrated system of claim 1, wherein said forming subsystem includes at least one rotary die changer for changing die used in said forming subsystem. 6. The integrated system of claim 1, wherein said first subline includes a laser trim subsystem and a magnetic pulse subsystem. 7. The integrated system of claim 6, wherein said forming subsystem of said first subline is arranged in series with said laser trim subsystem and said magnetic pulse subsystem. 8. The integrated system of claim 1, wherein, said second subline includes a laser trim subsystem and a magnetic pulse subsystem. 9. The integrated system of claim 8, wherein said forming subsystem of said second subline is arranged in series with said laser trim subsystem, said magnetic pulse subsystem, and said pre-hemming subsystem. 10. A method for integrated sheet metal forming, assembly, and inspection, the method comprising: providing a plurality of robotic material conveyors for conveying sheet metal workpieces; first and second sublines arranged in a parallel relationship to each other; said first subline including a plurality of said robotic material conveyors and a forming subsystem including at least one sheet metal drawing apparatus: said second subline including a plurality of said robotic material conveyors, a forming subsystem including at least one sheet metal drawing apparatus, and a pre-hemming subsystem; a roller hemming subsystem; and an inspection subsystem; said first and second sublines being arranged in series with said roller hemming subsystem, and said rolling hemming subsystem being arranged in series with said inspection subsystem; introducing a sheet metal blank to said forming subsystem of said first subline and said forming subsystem of said second subline to form sheet metal panels; conveying said sheet metal panels to a laser trim subsystem for robotic laser trimming of said sheet metal panel; conveying said sheet metal panels to said roller hemming subsystem to form a sheet metal assembly; and conveying said sheet metal assembly to said inspection system for robotic inspection of said sheet metal assembly. 11. The method of claim 10, including the step of: prior to conveying said sheet metal panels to said roller hemming subsystem, conveying said sheet metal panels to a magnetic pulse subsystem for magnetic pulse piercing of said sheet metal panels. 12. The method of claim 10 including the step of: prior to conveying said sheet metal panel in said second subline to said roller hemming subsystem, conveying said sheet metal panel to said pre-hemming subsystem. 