An apparatus is disclosed for enhancing the operational performance of a servo. The apparatus comprises an auxiliary shaft that is independent and displaced from the servo and an actuation sensor that is operably coupled to the auxiliary shaft. The auxiliary shaft is configured to be driven by a motor associated with the servo.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A hobby servo motor device having enhanced operational capacity, the device comprising: a hobby servo motor having a rotatable servo spline and receiving a coded signal from an input line; a rotatable auxiliary shaft displaced from and rotatably coupled to the servo spline; an auxiliary potentiometer functionally connected to the auxiliary shaft, the auxiliary potentiometer providing an output signal to the hobby servo motor; and wherein an angular position of the auxiliary shaft is proportionally controlled based on the coded signal from the input line and the auxiliary potentiometer output signal. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the output signal comprises a left signal, a center signal, and a right signal. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the servo spline has between 23 and 25 teeth. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein the auxiliary shaft is rotatably coupled to the servo spline comprises a servo spline gear coupled to an auxiliary shaft gear. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein the diameter of the servo spline gear is less than the diameter of the auxiliary shaft gear. 6. The device of claim 4 wherein the diameter of the servo spline gear is greater than the diameter of the auxiliary shaft gear. 7. The device of claim 1 and further comprising a frame that mounts the hobby servo motor and the auxiliary shaft. 8. The device of claim 1 and further comprising a mechanical load attached to the auxiliary shaft. 9. A hobby servo motor device having enhanced operational capacity, the device comprising: a hobby servo motor having a rotatable servo spline; a rotatable auxiliary shaft displaced from and rotatably coupled to the servo spline; an auxiliary potentiometer functionally connected to the auxiliary shaft, the auxiliary potentiometer providing an output signal to the hobby servo motor; and a mechanical load attached to and actuated by the auxiliary shaft. 10. The device of claim 9 wherein the hobby servo motor receives a coded input signal. 11. The device of claim 10 wherein the auxiliary potentiometer output signal and the coded input signal are utilized to position the mechanical load. 12. The device of claim 9 wherein the hobby servo motor and the auxiliary shaft are mounted in a frame. 13. The device of claim 12 wherein an axis of rotation of the servo spline and an axis of rotation of the auxiliary shaft are parallel. 14. The device of claim 13 wherein the auxiliary shaft is rotatably coupled to the servo spline comprises a servo spline gear coupled to an auxiliary shaft gear. 15. The device of claim 14 wherein the servo spline gear and the auxiliary shaft gear are at least approximately coplanar. 16. The device of claim 15 wherein the servo spline has between 23 and 25 teeth. 17. An apparatus for enhancing the operation performance of a hobby servo motor, the apparatus comprising: a frame having an aperture configured to mount a hobby servo motor; a rotatable auxiliary shaft mounted in the frame; an auxiliary potentiometer functionally connected to the rotatable shaft, the auxiliary potentiometer generating an output signal based on an angular position of the auxiliary shaft. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 and further comprising a mechanical load attached to the auxiliary shaft. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 and further comprising a gear attached to the auxiliary shaft. 20. The apparatus of claim 17 and further comprising a sprocket attached to the auxiliary shaft. 