A device for contactless transfer of energy and data. One embodiment includes a primary coil assembly on a first support and a secondary coil assembly on a second support, the supports rotatable in relation to one another, the primary and secondary coil assemblies having an energy coil for inductive transfer of electric energy. To minimize interference in data transfer, the primary and secondary coil assemblies may include at least one data coil for inductive data transfer wherein at least one winding of the data coil surrounds at least one winding of the energy coil so that a first section of the data winding is wound in the wound direction of the energy coil and a second section of the data winding is wound in a direction opposite the wound direction of the energy coil.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for a contactless transfer of energy and data, comprising: a primary winding arrangement arranged on a first support, wherein the primary winding arrangement has at least one energy winding for an inductive transfer of electrical energy, and wherein the primary winding arrangement has at least one data winding for an inductive transfer of data; a secondary winding arrangement arranged on a second support, wherein the first support and the second support are rotatable in relation to one another, wherein the secondary winding arrangement has at least one energy winding for the inductive transfer of electrical energy, and wherein the secondary winding arrangement has at least one data winding for the inductive transfer of data; and at least one data turn of the data winding to enclose at least one energy turn of the energy winding such that a first part of the data turn is wound in a winding direction of the energy winding and a second part of the data turn is wound counter to the winding direction of the energy winding, wherein the data winding is arranged relative to the energy winding such that magnetic field strength components generated by the energy winding compensate each other within a surface area which is enclosed by the data turn. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the compensation results in virtually no magnetic flux within the surface area. 3. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the energy turn is arranged essentially midway between the first part of the data turn, and the second part of the data turn. 4. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the primary winding arrangement is based on flat coils, and wherein the secondary winding arrangements are based on flat coils. 5. The device as claimed in claim 3, wherein the primary winding arrangement is based on flat coils, and wherein the secondary winding arrangements are based on flat coils. 6. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first support and the second support are rotationally symmetrical, wherein the first support and the second support share an axis of rotation, and wherein the first support and the second support are arranged on the shared axis with an axial offset in relation to each other. 7. The device as claimed in claim 5, wherein the first support and the second support are rotationally symmetrical, wherein the first support and the second support share an axis of rotation, and wherein the first support and the second support are arranged on the shared axis with an axial offset in relation to each other. 8. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first support and the second support are ferrite reflectors. 9. The device as claimed claim 1, wherein the device is installed in an automation system featuring a rotary motion, wherein the first support is connected to a fixed part of the automation system and the second support is connected to a rotatable part of the automation system. 10. The device as claimed in claim 7, wherein the first support is connected to a fixed part of the automation system, and wherein the second support is connected to a rotatable part of the automation system. 11. The device as claimed in claim 9, wherein the first support is annular, and wherein the second support is annular. 12. The device as claimed in claim 10, wherein the first support is annular, and wherein the second support is annular. 13. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first support and second support are divided in each case into a first part-support and a second part-support. 14. The device as claimed in claim 13, wherein the first part-support has a semicircular opening and the second part-support has a semicircular opening. 15. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the energy winding has a first coil and a second coil, wherein the data winding has a first coil and a second coil, wherein the first coil is arranged on the first part-support, and wherein the second coil is arranged on the second part-support. 16. The device as claimed in claim 15, wherein the first coil of the energy winding and the second coil of the energy winding are connected in serial, and wherein the first coil of the data winding and the second coil of the data winding are connected in serial. 17. The device as claimed in claims 13, wherein at least one turn of the first coil is closed within the first part-support, and wherein at least one turn of the second coil is closed within the second part-support, such that the turns have in each case an inner turn section having an inner radius and an outer turn section having an outer radius, wherein the outer radius is greater than the inner radius. 18. The device as claimed in claims 16, wherein at least one turn of the first coil is closed within the first part-support, and wherein at least one turn of the second coil is closed within the second part-support, such that the turns have in each case an inner turn section having an inner radius and an outer turn section having an outer radius, wherein the outer radius is greater than the inner radius. 