A system of mobile device control is provided, which includes moving a surrogate under wireless control, and autonomously moving the surrogate to regain wireless control when the wireless control is lost.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of mobile device control comprising: moving a surrogate under wireless control by a user; during the moving, detecting unsuitable degradation of wireless communications of the wireless control; and in response to the detecting and while the surrogate is still receiving the wireless communications, autonomously moving the surrogate to provide suitable wireless communications of the wireless control; wherein the detecting comprises comparing a performance parameter associated with the wireless communications with a threshold. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 additionally comprising autonomously moving the surrogate along a previously determined route. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein autonomously moving the surrogate to provide suitable wireless communications of the wireless control occurs after the passage of the period of time following the detecting of the degradation; and the method further comprises after the detecting of the unsuitable degradation, the surrogate loitering near a location where the unsuitable degradation was detected during the passage of the period of time. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein: the autonomously moving of the surrogate uses logged information of forward movement using at least one of dead reckoning, odometry, directional measurement, differential wheel rotation, or a combination thereof; and the autonomously moving of the surrogate uses waypoints back along a forward movement path for backtracking movement. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the detecting comprises determining that a current non-zero data rate at which the surrogate is successfully transmitting data via the wireless communications is less than a desired data rate. 6. The method as claimed in claim 5 further comprising prior to the detecting, wirelessly transmitting a video signal at or above the desired data rate from the surrogate to the user. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the detecting comprises determining that a current transmission delay associated with packets received by the surrogate is greater than an acceptable transmission delay. 8. A method of mobile telepresencing comprising: moving a surrogate under real-time wireless control by a user; autonomously moving the surrogate to an area with adequate wireless coverage to regain wireless control when the wireless control is lost for a period of time; while the surrogate is autonomously moving, activating a human perceptible indicator which is perceptible to humans in the presence of the surrogate; and prior to autonomously moving the surrogate, determining that the loss of the wireless control has persisted for the period of time, wherein the period of time is at least two seconds. 9. The method as claimed in claim 8 wherein: the losing of wireless control includes degradation of the control to a threshold level; and the autonomously moving of the surrogate to regain wireless control occurs after the period of time. 10. The method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the autonomously moving of the surrogate includes: backtracking while measuring distance and avoiding collisions by the surrogate; stopping the surrogate for an obstacle; and resuming backtracking after removal of the obstacle. 11. The method as claimed in claim 10 further comprising prior to the resuming of the backtracking, the surrogate is configured to sense removal of the obstacle, wherein the resuming is responsive to the sensing. 12. The method as claimed in claim 10 wherein the resuming backtracking comprises automatically without user intervention resuming backtracking. 13. The method as claimed in claim 8 wherein: the autonomously moving of the surrogate uses logged information of forward movement using at least one of dead reckoning, odometry, directional measurement, differential wheel rotation, or a combination thereof; the autonomously moving of the surrogate uses a slower speed than a forward speed; and the autonomously moving the surrogate uses waypoints back along a forward movement path for backtracking movement considering the slower speed of backtracking. 14. The method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the surrogate comprises the human perceptible indicator. 15. A mobile device control system comprising: a surrogate movable under wireless control by a user; and a computer/transceiver system on the surrogate to move the surrogate to regain wireless control independently of the wireless control after passage of a nonzero amount of time following a loss of the wireless control; wherein the computer/transceiver system is configured to move the surrogate after the computer/transceiver system has determined that the loss of wireless control has persisted for the non-zero amount of time; and the computer/transceiver system is configured to detect the loss of the wireless control, to configure the surrogate to loiter for the non-zero amount of time following the loss of the wireless control near a location at which the loss of the wireless control was detected, and to monitor for return of the wireless control during the non-zero amount of time. 16. The system as claimed in claim 15 wherein the computer/transceiver system is configured to autonomously move the surrogate to regain wireless control after the surrogate remains stationary for the non-zero amount of time unless wireless control has been regained. 17. The system as claimed in claim 15 wherein the computer/transceiver system is configured to move the surrogate by measuring a distance and avoiding a collision. 18. The system as claimed in claim 15 wherein: the computer/transceiver system is configured to use logged information of forward movement using at least one of dead reckoning, odometry, directional measurement, differential wheel rotation, or a combination thereof; and the computer/transceiver system is configured to calculate waypoints back along a forward movement path for backtracking movement. 19. The system as claimed in claim 15 wherein the loitering comprising remaining substantially stationary for the non-zero amount of time following the loss of the wireless control near a location at which the loss of the wireless control was detected. 20. The system as claimed in claim 15 wherein the computer/transceiver system is configured to determine that a first non-zero data rate at which the surrogate is successfully transmitting data via the wireless control at a first moment in time is less than a desired data rate and as a result of the determining, is configured to move the surrogate so that the surrogate transmits data via the wireless control at a second non-zero data rate that is greater than or equal to the desired data rate at a second moment in time after the first moment in time. 21. A mobile telepresencing system comprising: a surrogate movable under wireless control by a user; and a computer/transceiver system configured to determine when the wireless control is lost and, responsive to the determining, to autonomously move the surrogate to an area not currently receiving adequate coverage of the wireless control, but in which the surrogate previously experienced adequate coverage of the wireless control, and wait in the area until adequate coverage of the wireless control is regained. 22. The system as claimed in claim 21 wherein the computer/transceiver system is configured to autonomously move the surrogate along at least one of a previously determined route, a distance, a destination, a direction, or a combination thereof. 23. The system as claimed in claim 21 wherein: the computer/transceiver system is configured to determine degradation of the wireless control to a threshold level; and the computer/transceiver system is configured to autonomously move the surrogate to regain wireless control after a period of time. 24. The system as claimed in claim 21 wherein the computer/transceiver system includes: backtracking means for measuring a distance and avoiding a collision by the surrogate during backtracking; stopping means for stopping the surrogate for an obstacle; and means for resuming backtracking after removal of the obstacle. 25. The system as claimed in claim 24 wherein the means for resuming backtracking after removal of the obstacle comprises means for automatically without user intervention resuming backtracking after removal of the obstacle. 26. The system as claimed in claim 21 wherein: the computer/transceiver system is configured to use logged information of forward movement using at least one of dead reckoning, odometry, directional measurement, differential wheel rotation, or a combination thereof for backtracking; the computer/transceiver system is configured to provide a slower speed than a forward speed for backtracking by the surrogate; and the computer/transceiver system is configured to use waypoints back along a forward movement path for backtracking movement considering the slower speed of backtracking. 27. The system as claimed in claim 21 wherein the computer/transceiver system is configured to loiter in the area for the wireless control to return. 