A robotic medical system comprises an instrument driver having a driver shaft, a driver cable slidably disposed through the shaft, and a driver coupling member respectively mounted to the driver cable, and an instrument having an instrument shaft, an end effector, an instrument cable slidably disposed through the shaft for actuating the end effector, and an instrument coupling member mounted to the instrument cable. The robotic medical system further comprises a storage chamber having a passage that stores the instrument, a drive unit coupled to the instrument driver, and an electric controller configured for directing the drive unit to distally advance the instrument driver within the passage of the storage chamber and engage the driver coupling member and instrument coupling member, and for directing the drive unit to proximally retract the instrument driver within the passage of the storage chamber and disengage the driver coupling member and instrument coupling member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical instrument assembly, comprising: an instrument driver having a driver shaft, a driver cable slidably disposed through the driver shaft, and a driver coupling member respectively mounted to the driver cable; and an instrument configured for being mated with the instrument driver, the instrument having an instrument shaft, an end effector, an instrument cable slidably disposed through the instrument shaft for actuating the end effector, and an instrument coupling member respectively mounted to the instrument cable, wherein the driver coupling member and the instrument coupling member are configured for being releasably interlocked together. 2. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the end effector is an articulating tool. 3. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the instrument driver has a plurality of driver cables slidably disposed through the driver shaft, and a plurality of driver coupling members respectively mounted to the driver cables, wherein the instrument has a plurality of instrument cables slidably disposed through the instrument shaft, and a plurality of instrument coupling members respectively mounted to the instrument cables, and wherein driver coupling members and the instrument coupling members are configured for being respectively releasably interlocked together. 4. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the driver coupling member and the instrument coupling member has a hook. 5. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the instrument driver has one of a post and a recess located on a distal surface of the driver shaft, and the instrument has another of the post and the recess on a proximal surface of the instrument shaft, the post and recess configured for being mated together to align the driver coupling member with the instrument coupling member. 6. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the instrument driver has at least one slot on the driver shaft in which the driver coupling member is disposed. 7. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising a storage chamber having a passage, wherein the instrument driver is configured for being distally advanced within the passage to engage the instrument and for being proximally retracted within the passage to disengage the instrument. 8. The medical instrument assembly of claim 7, wherein the instrument coupling member is configured for being biased radially outward, and the passage has a small diameter distal section and a large diameter proximal section, whereby the small diameter distal section deflects the instrument coupling member radially inward to engage driver coupling member when the instrument driver is distally advanced within the passage, and the large diameter proximal section allows the instrument coupling member to deflect radially outward to disengage the driver coupling member when the instrument driver is proximally retracted within the passage. 