Adjustable and modular systems, devices and methods for accurately cutting or resecting bones during surgery, particularly in preparation for installing joint implants during arthroplasties, including, but not limited to, preparation of femur or tibia during knee arthroplasties, such as total knee arthroplasty. The embodiments of the present invention provide solutions for adjusting a position of the cutting guides, or structures for guiding or directing the implements for resecting a patient's bone tissue, such as saws. The systems and devices comprise an adjustor for adjusting the cutting guide's position at the patient's bone in at least one degree of rotational freedom and in at least one degree of translational freedom.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for positioning a cutting guide for preparation of a bone of a patient during total knee arthroplasty, comprising: an adjustor for adjusting said cutting guide at the bone; structures operatively associated with the adjustor for adjusting the position of the cutting guide in at least one degree of rotational freedom and at least one degree of translational freedom, at least one of the structures operatively associated with the adjustor configured to convert rotational motion of the at least one structure to translational motion of the cutting guide such that rotation of the at least one structure in a first rotational direction drives the cutting guide in a first translational direction; structures for stabilizing the adjustor at the bone; and structures for engaging the cutting guide; wherein the adjustor further comprises a module for attaching the adjustor to the bone; wherein the module for attaching the adjustor to the bone is for attaching the adjustor to an anchor post or to an intramedullary rod; and wherein the module for attaching the adjustor to the bone is adjustably connected to ball-and-socket structures by a translationally adjustable connection. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising the cutting guide. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the cutting guide is a femoral cutting guide or a tibial cutting guide. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a femoral cutting guide for performing one or more of distal, axially directed anterior, axially directed posterior, anterior chamfer, or posterior chamfer cuts, or a combination thereof. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the adjustor comprises one or more structures for the adjustment of the cutting guide with respect to the femur in at least one of superior/inferior, medial/lateral, or anterior/posterior translations. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein the adjustor comprises one or more structures for the adjustment of the cutting guide with respect to the femur in at least one of varus/valgus angle, flexion/extension angle, or axial rotation. 7. The system of claim 4, wherein the adjustor comprises one or more structures for the adjustment of the cutting guide with respect to the femur in at least one of vargus/valgus angle, flexion/extension angle, or proximal/distal translation. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the module for attaching the adjustor to the bone is adjustably connected to the ball and socket structures by the translationally adjustable connection controlled by a lever or a screw. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the ball and socket structure is connected to the cutting guide by one or more translationally adjustable connections controlled by a lever or a screw. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the translationally adjustable connection is adjustable in one or more of superior/inferior, anterior/posterior or medial/lateral translations. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the translationally adjustable connection is adjustable in one or more of superior/inferior, anterior/posterior or medial/lateral translations. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the module for attaching the adjustor to the bone attaches the adjustor to the bone percutaneously. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the adjustor is of a size suitable for minimally invasive surgery. 14. The system of claim 1, further comprising one or more fiducials for computer-assisted surgery. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein rotation of the at least one structure configured to convert rotational motion in a second, different rotational direction drives the cutting guide in a second, different translational direction. 16. A system for positioning a cutting guide for preparation of a bone of a patient during total knee arthroplasty, comprising: an adjustor for adjusting said cutting guide at the bone; structures operatively associated with the adjustor for adjusting the position of the cutting guide in at least one degree of rotational freedom and at least one degree of translational freedom; structures for stabilizing the adjustor at the bone; structures for engaging the cutting guide; and a femoral cutting guide for performing one or more of distal, axially directed anterior, axially directed posterior, anterior chamfer, or posterior chamfer cuts, or a combination thereof, wherein the adjustor comprises a ball-and-socket structure for adjusting the cutting guide in at least two degrees of rotational freedom, comprising: a plate operably connected to the cutting guide and comprising a first, a second, and a third sockets; a first member comprising a first ball member inserted into the first socket; a second member, comprising a second ball member inserted into the second socket, a first opening, and a second opening, wherein the first member is inserted into and is retractable through the first opening in the second member; a third member; and a fourth member comprising a third ball member inserted into the third socket and a third opening, wherein the third member is inserted into and is retractable through the second opening in the second member and the third opening in the third member; wherein retracting or inserting at least one of the first member through the first opening or the third member through at least one of the second opening or the third opening moves the plate in at least one degree of rotational freedom, causing the cutting guide to move in the at least one degree of rotational freedom. 17. A system for positioning a cutting guide for preparation of a tibial or femoral bone of a patient during total knee arthroplasty, comprising: the cutting guide; an adjustor for adjusting said cutting guide at the bone; one or more structures operatively associated with the adjustor for adjusting the position of the cutting guide with respect to the bone in at least one of vargus/valgus angle, flexion/extension angle, or proximal/distal translation; a ball-and-socket structure for adjusting the position of the cutting guide in at least two degrees of rotational freedom, comprising: a plate operably connected to the cutting guide and comprising a first, a second, and a third sockets; a first member comprising a first ball member inserted into the first socket; a second member, comprising a second ball member inserted into the second socket, a first opening, and a second opening, wherein the first member is inserted into and is retractable through the first opening in the second member; a third member; and a fourth member comprising a third ball member inserted into the third socket and a third opening, wherein the third member is inserted into and is retractable through the second opening in the second member and the third opening in the third member; wherein retracting or inserting at least one of the first member through the first opening or the third member through at least one of the second opening or the third opening moves the plate in at least one degree of rotational freedom, causing the cutting guide to move in the at least one degree of rotational freedom; a module for attaching the adjustor to a anchor post or to an intramedullary rod; and structures for engaging the cutting guide. 