A printhead assembly comprising: at least one printhead module comprising: at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein; a longitudinal extending fluid transfer member configured to support the at least two printhead integrated circuits, wherein the fluid transfer member includes a plurality of chambers which are in fluid communication with a supply of printing fluid and respective ports of the at least one printhead module; and an electrical connector for receiving electrical signals for the at least two printhead integrated circuits; a drive electronics part incorporating at least one controller which is connected to at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and a casing part for supporting the drive electronics part and the at least one printhead module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly comprising: at least one printhead module comprising: at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media; a longitudinal extending fluid transfer member, the fluid transfer member being configured to support the at least two printhead integrated circuits, wherein the fluid transfer member includes a plurality of chambers which are in fluid communication with a supply of printing fluid and respective ports of each printhead integrated circuit to thereby provide printing fluid to the nozzles for printing; and an electrical connector for receiving electrical signals for the at least two printhead integrated circuits; a drive electronics part incorporating at least one controller, which is connected to at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector, for receiving compressed page image data, for decompressing the compressed page image data and for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and a casing part for supporting the drive electronics part and the at least one printhead module, the casing part incorporating a clamping arrangement for removably clamping the at least one printhead module to the casing part, the clamping arrangement allowing movement of the at least one printhead module relative to the casing during operation of the printhead assembly. 2. The printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the fluid transfer member includes a plurality of apertures which are in alignment with the ports of each supported printhead integrated circuit. 3. The printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the drive electronics part is removably supported. 4. The printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the fluid transfer member includes a first longitudinally extending tab and a second longitudinally extending tab which extend along two parallel sides of the fluid transfer member, wherein the first longitudinally extending tab is received within a longitudinally extending groove in a first wall of the casing, and wherein the second longitudinally extending tab is clamped against a second wall of the casing via the clamping arrangement. 5. The printhead assembly according to claim 4, wherein the clamping arrangement comprises recessed portions for interlocking with lug members of the printhead module. 6. The printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein the lug members are provided along at least one of the first and second longitudinally extending tabs of the fluid transfer member and are spaced so as to correspond to positions at which the at least two printhead integrated circuits are provided on the at least one printhead module, and wherein the recessed portions engage with the lug members on at least one of the first and second longitudinally extending tab. 7. The printhead assembly according to claim 6, wherein the clamping arrangement comprises at least one extending arm portion arranged so as to clamp the second longitudinally extending tab of the fluid transfer member to the second wall of the casing. 8. The printhead assembly according to claim 7, wherein the at least one extending arm portion includes at least one of the recessed portions of the clamping arrangement. 9. The printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the drive electronics part incorporates at least two controllers each arranged on a printed circuit board so as to control operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector. 10. The printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the printhead assembly includes a plurality of printhead modules, wherein at least some of the neighbouring printhead modules are connected together via connecting members. 11. The printhead assembly according to claim 10, wherein each connecting member includes complementary male and female connecting portions, wherein each connecting member includes at least one aperture to allow printing fluid to travel between neighbouring printhead modules. 12. The printhead assembly according to claim 11, wherein each aperture of the connecting members aligns with one of the chambers of a respective fluid transfer member, thereby aligning corresponding chambers of interconnected fluid transfer members. 13. The printhead assembly according to claim 10, wherein at least some of the connecting members include tubular members, each tubular member being configured to protrude within one of the chambers of a respective fluid transfer member. 14. The printhead assembly according to claim 10, wherein the printhead assembly includes a sealing member which interconnects with and seals an open end of one of a respective fluid transfer member of the interconnected printhead modules. 