Disclosed are systems and methods that permit both real-time, and off-line, measurement of weld penetration depth. Exemplary systems and methods comprise an ultrasound source, such as a pulsed Nd:Yag laser, that simultaneously generates longitudinal and shear waves that radiate adjacent one side of a weld joining two specimens. An ultrasonic sensor, such as an electro-magnetic acoustic transducer or a piezo-electric transducer, capable of detecting shear and/or longitudinal waves, is disposed on an opposite side of the weld from the source. A signal processor is coupled to the sensor that processes time of flight signals for selected longitudinal or shear waves transmitted across the weld seam. The signal processor implements an algorithm that computes the weld penetration depth from the time of flight signals.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for measuring weld penetration depth, comprising: an ultrasound source for simultaneously generating longitudinal and shear waves on a first surface of a welded specimen on one side of a weld seam; an ultrasonic sensor disposed on an opposite side of the weld seam from the ultrasound source for detecting shear and/or longitudinal waves that are propagated from the one side of the weld seam to the opposite side; and a signal processor for processing time of flight signals corresponding to the time of arrival of the shear and/or longitudinal waves detected by the ultrasonic sensor using a predetermined equation to compute the weld penetration depth. 2. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein the longitudinal and shear waves generated on the first surface of the welded specimen radiate to a second surface of the specimen, create a Rayleigh wave that travels along the second surface and along the weld seam to impact the weld, which generates longitudinal and shear waves that radiate from the weld toward the second surface on an opposite side of the solidified weld seam, which longitudinal and shear waves are converted into shear and longitudinal waves, respectively, at the second surface, which converted shear and longitudinal waves are radiated toward the first surface of the specimen. 3. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein the ultrasound source comprises a pulsed Nd:Yag laser. 4. The apparatus recited in claim 3 wherein the selected one of the shear and longitudinal waves is detected using a piezo-electric transducer. 5. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein the ultrasonic sensor comprises an electro-magnetic acoustic transducer. 6. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein the ultrasonic sensor comprises a piezo-electric transducer. 7. An apparatus for measuring weld penetration depth, comprising: an ultrasound generator means for simultaneously generating longitudinal and shear waves on a first surface of a welded specimen on one side of a weld seam, which waves radiate to a second surface of the specimen, create a Rayleigh wave that travels along the second surface and along the weld seam to impact the weld, which generates longitudinal and shear waves that radiate from the weld toward the second surface on an opposite side of the solidified weld seam, which longitudinal and shear waves are converted into shear and longitudinal waves, respectively, at the second surface, which converted shear and longitudinal waves are radiated toward the first surface of the specimen; an ultrasonic sensor means for detecting shear and/or longitudinal waves disposed on an opposite side of the weld seam from the ultrasound source; and a signal processor means for processing signals corresponding to the time of arrival of the shear and/or longitudinal waves detected by the ultrasonic sensor using a predetermined equation to compute the weld penetration depth. 8. The apparatus recited in claim 7 wherein the ultrasound generator means comprises a pulsed Nd:Yag laser. 9. The apparatus recited in claim 7 wherein the ultrasonic sensor means comprises an electro-magnetic acoustic transducer. 10. The apparatus recited in claim 7 wherein the ultrasonic sensor means comprises a piezo-electric transducer. 11. A weld penetration depth measuring method comprising: welding two specimens along a weld seam and allowing the weld to solidify; generating longitudinal and shear ultrasound waves at a point on a first surface of the welded specimen that is located on one side of the solidified weld seam, which waves radiate to a second surface of the specimen, create a Rayleigh wave that travels along the second surface and along the weld seam to impact the weld, which generates longitudinal and shear waves that radiate from the weld toward the second surface on an opposite side of the solidified weld seam, which longitudinal and shear waves are converted into shear and longitudinal waves, respectively, at the second surface, which converted shear and longitudinal waves are radiated toward the first surface of the specimen; detecting a selected one of the shear and longitudinal waves on the opposite side of the solidified weld seam; and processing signals corresponding to the time of arrival of the detected waves using a predetermined equation to determine the weld penetration depth. 12. The method recited in claim 11 wherein the longitudinal and shear ultrasound waves are generated using a pulsed Nd:Yag laser. 13. The method recited in claim 12 wherein the selected one of the shear and longitudinal waves is detected using an electro-magnetic acoustic transducer. 