Embodiments of hobby servo motor devices are disclosed. Embodiments include a hobby servo motor having an output shaft and a planar surface that is perpendicular to the output shaft. Embodiments also include a gear attachment mechanism having a top planar surface, a bottom planar surface, and an outer surface having gear engaging teeth. The gear engaging teeth extend from the bottom surface to the top surface. The top surface is in contact with the hobby servo output shaft. The gear attachment mechanism bottom planar surface is flushly engaged to the hobby servo planar surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A hobby servo device comprising: a hobby servo motor having splined output shaft and a planar surface that is perpendicular to the output shaft, the splined output shaft having a top surface; a gear attachment mechanism having a top planar surface, a bottom planar surface, an inner surface, and an outer surface, the inner surface having teeth that engage the splined output shaft and that functionally couple the gear attachment mechanism to the splined output shaft, the outer surface having gear engaging teeth, the top surface of the gear attachment mechanism being in contact with the top surface of the hobby servo output shaft, the bottom surface of the gear attachment mechanism being flushly engaged to the hobby servo planar surface; and wherein a portion of the splines of the hobby servo splined output shaft, a portion of the teeth of the gear attachment mechanism inner surface, and a portion of the teeth of the gear attachment mechanism outer surface are within a common plane. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the gear attachment mechanism top planar surface includes an aperture, and wherein the common plane and the hobby servo motor planar surface are parallel. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein the gear attachment mechanism is secured to the hobby servo motor using the aperture, and wherein the gear attachment mechanism comprises one piece such that the gear attachment mechanism inner surface teeth and the gear attachment mechanism outer surface teeth are formed by the one piece. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein a screw secures the gear attachment mechanism to the hobby servo motor, and wherein the portion of the splines of the hobby servo splined output shaft, the portion of the teeth of the gear attachment mechanism inner surface, and the portion of the teeth of the gear attachment mechanism outer surface are located between the hobby servo planar surface and the gear attachment mechanism top planar surface. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein the hobby servo output shaft has a rotational capacity of less than three hundred and sixty angular degrees, and wherein all of the splines of the hobby servo splined output shaft, all of the teeth of the gear attachment mechanism inner surface, and all of the teeth of the gear attachment mechanism outer surface are located between the hobby servo planar surface and the gear attachment mechanism top planar surface. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein the hobby servo output shaft is made from a synthetic material. 7. The device of claim 1 wherein the gear attachment mechanism is made from a metal. 8. A hobby servo device comprising: a hobby servo motor having a rotatable splined output shaft and a rotatable splined output shaft top; a gear attachment mechanism having an inner surface that engages the rotatable splined output shaft, a top surface that engages the rotatable splined output shaft top, and a gear-engaging outer surface; wherein the hobby servo motor rotatable output shaft, the gear attachment inner surface, and the gear attachment mechanism gear-engaging outer surface rotate at least partially in a same plane; and wherein a hobby servo coded input signal controls an angular position of the gear attachment mechanism. 9. The device of claim 8 wherein the same plane is between the hobby servo motor and the gear attachment mechanism top surface. 10. The device of claim 9 wherein the same plane is perpendicular to an axis of rotation of the hobby servo motor rotatable splined output shaft. 11. The device of claim 10 wherein the gear attachment mechanism comprises one piece such that the gear attachment mechanism inner surface and the gear attachment mechanism outer surface are formed by the one piece. 12. The device of claim 11 wherein the gear attachment mechanism is made of a metal. 13. The device of claim 11 wherein the gear attachment mechanism is made of a plastic. 14. A device for translating rotational motion produced by a hobby servo motor, wherein the hobby servo includes an output shaft, the device comprising: an inner surface; an outer surface; a plurality of hobby servo motor output shaft engaging structures extending from the inner surface; a plurality of gear engaging structures extending from the outer surface; a top surface that includes an aperture and that is perpendicular to the inner and the outer surfaces, the top surface aperture having a diameter that is smaller than the diameter of the hobby servo output shaft; a bottom surface that is perpendicular to the inner and the outer surfaces; and wherein the output shaft engaging structures and the gear engaging structures are at least partially coplanar in a plane that is between the top and the bottom surfaces. 15. The device of claim 14 wherein the top surface, the bottom surface, and the plane are parallel. 16. The device of claim 15 wherein the outer surface gear engaging structures cover an entire area of the outer surface that runs between the bottom surface and the top surface. 17. The device of claim 14 wherein the device is made from one piece. 18. The device of claim 14 wherein the device is made from more than one piece. 