A method is provided for performing knee replacement surgery on a leg of a patient. The method includes making a cut on a posterior portion of a patella, making a cut on a proximal portion of a tibia, and making a cut on the distal portion of the femur. The cut on the patella is performed before making the cuts on the tibia and femur.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing a total knee replacement surgery on a leg of a patient, the method comprising, in the following order: first, making a cut on a posterior portion of a patella; second, making a cut on a proximal portion of a tibia using the additional space created by having first cut the patella; and third, making a cut on the distal portion of the femur using the additional space created by having first cut the patella and the tibia, wherein making the cut on the patella is performed before making the cuts on the tibia and femur. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the patella is in a non everted position while making the cut on the patella. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the leg is in an extended position while making the cut on the patella. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein a lower portion of the leg is suspended while making the cuts on the tibia and femur. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising offsetting the patella before making the cuts on the tibia and femur. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the patella is offset in one of a medial and lateral direction. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the tibia is cut before the femur. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of making an incision, wherein said cuts are performed without extending any of portions of said patella, tibia or femur through said incision. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said incision has a length of less than thirteen (13) centimeters. 10. A method of performing knee replacement surgery on a leg of a patient, the method comprising: making a cut surface on a patella, while the patella is in a non everted position; making a cut surface on a tibia using the additional space created by having first cut the patella; making a cut surface on a femur using the additional space created by having first cut the patella and the tibia; positioning a patellar component on the cut surface of the patella, while the patella is in a non everted position; positioning a tibial component on the cut surface of the tibia; and positioning a femoral component on the cut surface of the femur, wherein making the cut surface on the patella is performed before making the cut surfaces on the tibia and femur. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of making an incision, wherein said cuts are performed without extending any portions of said patella, tibia or femur through said incision. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said incision has a length of less than thirteen (13) centimeters. 13. The method of claim 10, further comprising offsetting the patella in one of a medial and lateral direction and wherein offsetting the patella is performed before making the cut surfaces on the tibia and femur. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the leg is in an extended position while making the cut surface on the patella. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein a lower portion of the leg is suspended while making the cut surfaces on the tibia and femur. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein positioning the patellar component is performed after making the cut surfaces on the tibia and femur. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the patella is maintained in a non everted position during all the steps of the method. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising offsetting the patella in one of a medial and lateral direction and wherein offsetting the patella is performed before making the cut surfaces on the tibia and femur. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein positioning the patellar component is performed after positioning the tibial and femoral components. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the leg is in an extended position while making the cut on the patella. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein a lower portion of the leg is suspended while making the cut surfaces on the tibia and femur. 22. A method of performing knee replacement surgery on a leg of a patient, the method comprising: making a cut surface and removing bone from a posterior portion of a patella, while the posterior portion of the patella faces in a normal, posterior orientation; making a cut surface on a tibia; making a cut surface on a femur; positioning a tibial component on the cut surface of the tibia; positioning a femoral component on the cut surface of the femur; and positioning a patellar component on the cut surface of the patella, while the posterior portion of the patella faces in a normal, posterior orientation; wherein bone is removed from the patella before making the cut surfaces on the tibia and femur, whereby access to the tibia and femur is facilitated by creation of additional space formerly occupied by the bone removed from the patella, and wherein trauma to soft tissue connected with the patella is reduced by maintaining the patella in a normal orientation. 23. A method of performing knee replacement surgery on a leg of a patient, the method comprising: making a cut surface on a patella, while the patella is in a non everted position; making a cut surface on a tibia using the additional space created by having first cut the patella; making a cut surface on a femur using the additional space created by having first cut the patella and the tibia; positioning a patellar component on the cut surface of the patella, after making the cut surfaces on the tibia and femur; positioning a tibial component on the cut surface of the tibia; and positioning a femoral component on the cut surface of the femur, wherein making the cut surface on the patella is performed before making the cut surfaces on the tibia and femur. 