Apparatus, systems, and methods for inspecting a structure are provided which use a sensor holder constructed from rapid prototyping, such as stereolithography, and which is configured to support a plurality of inspection sensors typically arranged in an ordered matrix array and possibly with one or more additional inspection sensors aligned for inspection of difficult to inspect features of a structure such as radius corner or edge features. Rapid prototype integrated matrix array inspection apparatus, systems, and methods provide fast and efficient methods of constructing custom inspection devices.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A method of non-destructive inspection, comprising: supporting a sensor holder on a first portion of a structure, wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least the first portion of the structure, wherein the sensor holder defines a plurality of holes configured to support and orient a plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors arranged in a matrix array having at least two rows and at least two columns, wherein an offset hole in a first row of the matrix array of holes is defined at an offset position from the holes in other columns in the matrix array of holes and to permit a first non-destructive inspection sensor of the matrix array and supported by the offset hole to inspect a different portion of the structure than the non-destructive inspection sensors of the holes in any other columns in the matrix array of holes, and wherein the sensor holder comprises the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors supported and oriented by the plurality of holes, each of the non-destructive inspection sensors disposed within one of the holes of the matrix array and the first non-destructive inspection sensor being supported and oriented by the offset hole; passing the sensor holder over at least the first portion of the structure; and transmitting ultrasonic signals from the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors to at least the first portion of the structure in an offset matrix array corresponding to the matrix array of the plurality of holes, including the offset hole. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein an offset row in the matrix array of holes comprises holes defined at offset positions from the holes in the other columns in the matrix array of holes to permit non-destructive inspection sensors supported by the holes of the offset row to inspect different portions of the structure than non-destructive inspection sensors of the holes in the other columns in the matrix array of holes. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein each row in the matrix array of holes comprises holes defined at offset positions from the holes in each other row in the matrix array of holes to permit non-destructive inspection sensors to inspect different portions of the structure than non-destructive inspection sensors of the holes in the other rows in the matrix array of holes. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitted ultrasonic signals are pulse echo ultrasonic signals, and wherein the method further comprises receiving reflected pulse echo ultrasonic signals from at least the first portion of the structure by the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor holder is further configured to define the plurality of holes aligned at a first angle relative to the structure to permit the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors supported by the plurality of holes to be aligned at the first angle and arranged in the matrix array to inspect a first portion of the structure at the first angle while the sensor holder travels over at least the first portion of the structure, and wherein transmitting the ultrasonic signals comprises transmitting ultrasonic signals at the first angle from the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors to at least the first portion of the structure. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor holder further defines a radius hole defined at a first angle to the structure to permit a non-destructive inspection sensor supported by the radius hole and aligned at the first angle to inspect a radius feature of the structure while the sensor holder travels over at least the first portion of the structure and the radius feature, and wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals comprises transmitting ultrasonic signals at the first angle from the non-destructive inspection sensor supported and oriented by the radius hole at the first angle to the radius feature of the structure. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals comprises transmitting pulse echo ultrasonic signals at the first angle from the non-destructive inspection sensor of the radius hole to the radius feature of the structure, and wherein the method further comprises receiving reflected pulse echo ultrasonic signals from the radius feature of the structure by the at least one non-destructive inspection sensor of the radius hole. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising measuring at least one of the following characteristics of the inspection apparatus with respect to the structure under inspection using an encoder: position, speed, direction, and velocity. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein passing the sensor holder over at least the first portion of the structure comprises operating an electronic motor configured to move the sensor holder over the structure. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving the ultrasonic signals transmitted from the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors to at least the first portion of the structure in an offset matrix array corresponding to the matrix array of the plurality of holes; processing the received ultrasonic signals; and presenting the processed ultrasonic signals as data on a display for a user. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: measuring at least one of the following characteristics of the inspection apparatus with respect to the structure under inspection using an encoder: position, speed, direction, and velocity; and receiving the data of the measured characteristic, wherein processing the received ultrasonic signals comprises correlating the received ultrasonic signals with the received data of the measured characteristic, and wherein presenting the processed ultrasonic signals as data on a display for a user comprises presenting the processed ultrasonic signals as data correlated with the received data of the measured characteristic. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising coupling the ultrasonic signals transmitted from the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors to at least the first portion of the structure. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein coupling the ultrasonic signals comprises feeding a fluid couplant into a central cavity defined in the sensor holder to permit the fluid couplant to flow to at least one position between the structure and at least one of the non-destructive inspection sensors. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the sensor holder is further configured to disperse the fluid couplant from the central cavity through at least one of the holes of the matrix array configured to support and orient one of the non-destructive inspection sensors, and wherein coupling the ultrasonic signals comprises passing fluid couplant through at least one of the holes of the matrix array configured to support and orient one of the non-destructive inspection sensors. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising inserting a sensor plug insert into at least one hole in the sensor holder in which a non-destructive inspection sensor is not supported for inspection of the structure to prevent fluid couplant from passing through the at least one hole. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein supporting the sensor holder on the first portion of the structure comprises magnetically coupling the sensor holder to the first portion of the structure. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein passing the sensor holder over at least the first portion of the structure comprises moving a crawler to which the sensor holder is magnetically coupled on an opposed surface of the structure. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein moving the crawler comprises operating a robotic arm connected to the crawler. 19. A method of non-destructive inspection, comprising: supporting a sensor holder on a first portion of a structure, wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least the first portion of the structure, wherein the sensor holder defines a plurality of holes configured to support and orient a plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors arranged in a matrix array, and wherein the sensor holder comprises the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors supported and oriented by the plurality of holes, each of the non-destructive inspection sensors disposed within one of the holes of the matrix array; passing the sensor holder over at least the first portion of the structure; transmitting ultrasonic signals from the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors to at least the first portion of the structure in a matrix array corresponding to the matrix array of the plurality of holes; and coupling the ultrasonic signals transmitted from the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors to at least the first portion of the structure, wherein coupling comprises: injecting a fluid into a fluid manifold; and disbursing the fluid from the fluid manifold through at least one of the holes of the matrix array. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein coupling further comprises passing the fluid between the structure and the non-destructive inspection sensors. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein disbursing the fluid from the fluid manifold through the at least one of the holes of the matrix array comprises passing fluid around the at least one non-destructive inspection sensors disposed in the at least one hole of the matrix array. 22. The method of claim 19, further comprising inserting a sensor plug insert into at least one hole of the matrix array in which a non-destructive inspection sensor is not disposed to prevent fluid couplant from passing through the at least one hole. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein the sensor holder further defines a radius hole aligned at a first angle to the structure to permit a non-destructive inspection sensor supported by the radius hole and oriented at the first angle to inspect a radius feature of the structure while the sensor holder travels over at least the first portion of the structure and the radius feature, and wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals comprises transmitting ultrasonic signals at the first angle from the non-destructive inspection sensor of the radius hole to the radius feature of the structure. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the sensor holder is configured for inspecting a hat stringer and the radius feature is a corner of the hat stringer. 25. The method of claim 19, further comprising: receiving the ultrasonic signals transmitted from the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors to at least the first portion of the structure in an offset matrix array corresponding to the matrix array of the plurality of holes; processing the received ultrasonic signals; and presenting the processed ultrasonic signals as data on a display for a user. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising: measuring at least one of the following characteristics of the inspection apparatus with respect to the structure under inspection using an encoder: position, speed, direction, and velocity; and receiving the data of the measured characteristic, wherein processing the received ultrasonic signals comprises correlating the received ultrasonic signals with the received data of the measured characteristic, and wherein presenting the processed ultrasonic signals as data on a display for a user comprises presenting the processed ultrasonic signals as data correlated with the received data of the measured characteristic. 27. The method of claim 19, wherein supporting the sensor holder on the first portion of the structure comprises magnetically coupling the sensor holder to the first portion of the structure. 28. The method of claim 19, wherein passing the sensor holder over at least the first portion of the structure comprises moving a crawler to which the sensor holder is magnetically coupled on an opposed surface of the structure. 29. The method of claim 19, wherein passing the sensor holder over at least the first portion of the structure comprises operating an electronic motor configured to move the sensor holder over the structure. 30. A method of non-destructive inspection, comprising: supporting a sensor holder on a first portion of a structure, wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least the first portion of the structure, wherein the sensor holder defines a plurality of holes configured to support and orient a plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors arranged in a matrix array, wherein the sensor holder further defines a first hole of the plurality of holes aligned at a first angle to the structure to permit a first non-destructive inspection sensor supported by the first hole and oriented at the first angle to inspect the structure at the first angle while the sensor holder travels over the structure, and wherein the sensor holder comprises the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors supported and oriented by the plurality of holes, each of the non-destructive inspection sensors disposed within one of the holes of the matrix array and the first non-destructive inspection sensor being supported and oriented by the first hole at the first angle; passing the sensor holder over at least the first portion of the structure; and transmitting ultrasonic signals from the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors to the first portion of the structure and from the first non-destructive inspection sensor supported and oriented by the first hole at the first angle to the structure. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the sensor holder further defines a plurality of holes, including the first hole, aligned at the first angle to the structure to permit a plurality of the non-destructive inspection sensors, including the first non-destructive inspection sensor, supported by the plurality of holes aligned at the first angle and arranged in the matrix array to inspect a planar feature of the structure at the first angle while the sensor holder travels over at least the first portion of the structure. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein the sensor holder further defines a radius hole aligned at a second angle to the structure to permit a second non-destructive inspection sensor supported by the radius hole and oriented at the second angle to inspect a radius feature of the structure while the sensor holder travels over at least the first portion of the structure and the radius feature, and wherein ultrasonic signals transmitted from the second non-destructive inspection sensor supported and oriented by the radius hole at the second angle are transmitted at the second angle to the radius feature of the structure. 33. A method of non-destructive inspection, comprising: supporting a sensor holder on a first portion of a structure, wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least the first portion of the structure, wherein the sensor holder defines a plurality of holes configured to support and orient a plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors arranged in a matrix array, wherein the sensor holder further defines a radius hole defined at a first angle to the structure to permit a first non-destructive inspection sensor supported by the radius hole and oriented at the first angle to inspect a radius feature of the structure while the sensor holder travels over at least the first portion of the structure and the radius feature, and wherein the sensor holder comprises the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors supported and oriented by the plurality of holes, each of the non-destructive inspection sensors disposed within one of the holes of the matrix array and the first non-destructive inspection sensor being supported and oriented by the at least one radius hole at the first angle; passing the sensor holder over at least the first portion of the structure; and transmitting ultrasonic signals from the plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors to the first portion of the structure and from the first non-destructive inspection sensor supported and oriented by the radius hole at the first angle to the radius feature of the structure. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the sensor holder further defines a plurality of holes, including the radius hole, aligned at the first angle to the structure to permit a plurality of non-destructive inspection sensors, including the first non-destructive inspection sensor, supported by the plurality of holes aligned at the first angle to inspect the radius feature of the structure at the first angle while the sensor holder travels over at least the first portion of the structure. 35. The method of claim 33, wherein the sensor holder further defines a second hole aligned at a second angle to the structure to permit a second non-destructive inspection sensor supported by the second hold and oriented at the second angle to inspect the first portion of the structure at the second angle while the sensor holder travels over at least the first portion of the structure, and wherein ultrasonic signals transmitted from the second non-destructive inspection sensor supported and oriented by the second hole at the second angle are transmitted at the second angle to the first portion of the structure. 