A method of characterizing the biological activity of a candidate compound may include exposing cells to the candidate compound, and then exposing the cells to a repetitive application of electric fields so as to set the transmembrane potential to a level corresponding to a pre-selected voltage dependent state of a target ion channel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of assaying the biochemical activity of a compound against a target ion channel comprising: selecting a cell line having a normal resting transmembrane potential corresponding to a selected voltage dependent state of said target ion channel, wherein said cell line is selected from one or more of CHL, LTK(-), CHO-K1, HEK-293, RBL, F11, and HL5; expressing said target ion channel in a population of cells of said selected cell line; exposing said population of cells to said compound; repetitively exposing said population of cells to one or more electric fields produced with extracellular electrodes so as to effect a controlled change in transmembrane potential of one or more cells of said population of cells; and monitoring, without using a patch clamp, changes in the transmembrane potential of said one or more cells of said population of cells. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said target ion channel is exogenously expressed in said cell line. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said cell line is transfected with nucleic acid encoding said target ion channel. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said cell line expresses insignificant levels of other ion channels. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said target ion channel is a sodium channel, and wherein said population of cells is selected from the group consisting of CHL cells, LTK(-) cells, and CHO-K1 cells. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said target ion channel is a potassium channel, and wherein said population of cells is selected from the group consisting of CHL cells, LTK(-) cells, and CHO-K1 cells. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said target ion channel is a calcium channel, and wherein said population of cells is selected from the group consisting of CHL cells, LTK(-) cells, and CHO-K1 cells. 8. A method of assaying ion channel activity comprising: exposing at least one non-excitable cell in solution to a plurality of electric field pulses produced with extracellular electrodes so as to create a controlled change in transmembrane potential and so as to activate an ion channel of interest; and detecting ion channel activity by detecting one or more changes in transmembrane potential without using a patch clamp. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said at least one cell comprises a voltage sensor selected from the group consisting of a FRET based voltage sensor, an electrochromic transmembrane potential dye, a transmembrane potential redistribution dye, an ion sensitive fluorescent or luminescent molecule and a radioactive ion. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said voltage sensor comprises a FRET based voltage sensor. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said ion channel of interest is a voltage regulated ion channel. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said plurality of electric field pulses cause said ion channel of interest to cycle between different voltage dependent states. 13. The method of claim 8 wherein said at least one cell is a eukaryotic cell. 14. The method of claim 8, wherein said at least one cell is a prokaryotic cell. 15. The method of claim 8, wherein said at least one cell is a tissue culture cell. 16. The method of claim 8, wherein said at least one cell is a primary cell line. 