A radiosurgery system is described that delivers a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, ocular structures are placed in a global coordinate system, based on ocular imaging, which leads to direction of an automated positioning system. In some embodiments, the position of an ocular structure is tracked and related to a radiosurgery system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilized for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial aids in positioning the system. In some embodiments, a reflection off the eye is used to aid in positioning. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system, for treating an eye with radiation, comprising: a radiation source that emits radiation; a collimator that collimates the emitted radiation into a beam; an alignment system that aligns the beam with an axis traversing the eye, the alignment system defining the axis by fiducials on an outer surface of the eye; a gating mechanism that reduces radiation emission from the radiation source when the beam is not aligned with the axis; and a communication link between the alignment system and the gating mechanism that communicates data, regarding alignment of the beam with the axis, from the alignment system to the gating mechanism. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the alignment system comprises a light emitter that emits a light beam that is substantially aligned with a long axis of the collimator. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the light emitter comprises a laser. 4. The system of claim 2, further comprising a sensor that detects a reflection of the light beam. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said axis traversing the eye is different from an axis that the emitted radiation follows through the eye. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said axis traversing the eye is substantially perpendicular to a center of the cornea. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising an image detection system, in communication with the alignment system, that detects at least one of a fundus, a limbus, a cornea, and a reflection off a surface of the eye. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein, when the image detection system detects a threshold movement of the eye, the gating mechanism ceases or reduces radiation emission from the radiation source. 9. A system, for delivery of an x-ray beam to an eye of a patient, comprising: at least one x-ray collimator that, in use, is positioned within about 15 cm of the retina of the eye and that collimates an x-ray beam that is directed at the eye; an alignment system that aligns a beam, emitted from the collimator, with an axis traversing the eye, the alignment system defining the axis by fiducials on an outer surface of the eye; and a laser that emits a laser beam toward the eye, the laser beam being substantially aligned with a long axis of the collimator and providing an indication of the alignment of the beam and the axis traversing the eye. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the laser beam is directed such that the indication of a direction of the x-ray beam is provided on a surface of the eye. 11. The system of claim 9, further comprising an eye contact member that is configured to contact the eye and maintain the eye in a substantially fixed position during delivery of the x-ray beam to the eye. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the laser beam is directed such that the indication of a direction of the x-ray beam is provided on a surface of the eye contact member. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the eye contact member comprises a material that is reflective, at least in part, of light having a same wavelength as the laser beam. 14. The system of claim 9, further comprising a power supply adapted to deliver between about 10 mA and about 800 mA of current to an anode of an x-ray tube that delivers the x-ray beam. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said anode is one of a stationary anode and a rotating anode. 16. A radiotherapy system, for treating diseased eye tissue, comprising: a collimator that collimates a radiation beam, emitted from a radiation source, to a cross-sectional width of the radiation beam of no more than about 6 mm, the collimator defining a first axis that the radiation beam follows when the radiation beam is emitted toward an eye; and an alignment system that aligns the radiation beam with the first axis, the alignment system identifying the first axis by fiducials on an outer surface of the eye, the alignment system comprising a first light guide that emits a light beam toward the eye along a second axis that is aligned with the first axis, the light beam providing an indication of the first axis. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the first axis and the second axis are substantially collinear. 18. The system of claim 16, further comprising a second light guide that projects a beam along a third axis that substantially intersects the second axis. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein the first light guide comprises a laser. 20. A method, of delivering radiation to an eye, comprising: providing an anterior-posterior axis of the eye; defining a treatment axis, based on fiducials on an outer surface of the eye, relative to the anterior-posterior axis of the eye; aligning a collimator at an angle relative to the treatment axis, the collimator being configured to collimate an x-ray beam that is emitted toward the eye; emitting the x-ray beam toward the eye through the collimator and at the angle relative to the treatment axis; and collimating the x-ray beam to a cross-sectional dimension of less than about 6 mm. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising aligning the collimated x-ray beam with a projected spot on the sclera of the eye. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising aligning said spot with the treatment axis. 23. The method of claim 20, further comprising ceasing emission of the x-ray beam when the collimator is detected not to be aligned at the angle relative to the treatment axis. 24. The method of claim 20, wherein said treatment axis comprises an optical central axis of the eye. 25. The method of claim 20, wherein said treatment axis comprises a visual axis of the eye. 26. The method of claim 20, further comprising moving the collimator relative to the treatment axis and emitting an additional collimated x-ray beam toward the eye. 27. The method of claim 20, further comprising moving the eye relative to the treatment axis. 28. The method of claim 20, wherein the collimating produces an x-ray beam that has a penumbra of less than about 2 mm at about 15 cm from the collimator. 29. The method of claim 20, wherein the collimating produces an x-ray beam that has a penumbra of less than about 2 mm at about 10 cm from the collimator. 