A multi-stream multimedia system is provided for providing simultaneous parallel communication streams from a plurality of communication devices, displaying the simultaneous parallel communication streams on a plurality of presentation devices, providing a high precision time code for synchronizing the simultaneous parallel communication streams, and recording each of the simultaneous parallel communication streams on a computer using the high precision time code.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for implementing a multi-stream multimedia system comprising: providing, to a first location, a first portion of simultaneous parallel communication streams from a first plurality of communication devices directed radially toward a second location; presenting, from the first location, the first portion of simultaneous parallel communication streams on a first plurality of presentation devices directed radially away from the first location; providing, to the second location, a second portion of simultaneous parallel communication streams from a second plurality of communication devices directed radially away from the first location; presenting, to the second location, the second portion of simultaneous parallel communication streams on a second plurality of presentation devices directed radially toward the second location; providing a high precision time code for synchronizing presenting the simultaneous parallel communication streams; and recording each of the simultaneous parallel communication streams using the high precision time code. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein: providing the simultaneous parallel communications streams provides simultaneous parallel video streams; and further comprising: providing fast forwarding video play by displaying predetermined frames of the simultaneous parallel video streams. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein: recording the simultaneous parallel communication streams further comprises: providing simultaneous parallel video streams; packetizing the simultaneous parallel video streams; and time stamping packets of the simultaneous parallel video streams with the high precision time code. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein: recording the simultaneous parallel communication streams further comprises: providing simultaneous parallel video streams; packetizing the simultaneous parallel video streams; and starting each new frame on a new packet. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein: presenting the simultaneous parallel communication streams further comprises: presenting simultaneous parallel video streams on a plurality of displays; and playing recorded simultaneous parallel video streams on portions of each of the plurality of displays. 6. A method for implementing a multi-stream multimedia system comprising: providing, to a first location, a first portion of simultaneous parallel video and audio streams respectively from a first plurality of cameras and directional microphones directed radially toward a second location; providing, to the second location, a second portion of simultaneous parallel video and audio streams from a second plurality of cameras and directional microphones directed radially away from the first location; transmitting the first portions of simultaneous parallel video and audio streams to a first receiver at the first location; transmitting the second portions of simultaneous parallel video and audio streams to a second receiver at the second location; displaying the first portion of simultaneous parallel video streams and playing each of the first portion of simultaneous parallel audio streams from the first receiver respectively on a first plurality of displays and speakers directed radially away from the first location; displaying the second portion of simultaneous parallel video streams and playing each of the second portion of simultaneous parallel audio streams from the second receiver respectively on a second plurality of displays and speakers directed radially toward the second location; providing a high precision time code of at least twice the highest video frame rate for synchronizing displaying and playing the simultaneous parallel video and audio streams; recording each of the simultaneous parallel video streams on a plurality of display computers using the high precision time code; and recording each of the simultaneous parallel audio streams on an audio computer using the high precision time code. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6 further comprising: providing slow audio play by periodic sampling of the simultaneous parallel audio streams, duplicating samples, and playing the samples; providing fast forwarding video play by displaying only I-frames of the simultaneous parallel video streams; and providing reverse audio play by periodic sampling of the simultaneous parallel audio streams and skipping a predetermined number of samples. 8. The method as claimed in claim 6 wherein: recording each of the simultaneous parallel video streams further comprises: packetizing the simultaneous parallel video streams; and time stamping packets of the simultaneous parallel video streams with the high precision time code; and recording each of the simultaneous parallel audio streams further comprises: packetizing the simultaneous parallel audio streams; and time stamping packets of the simultaneous parallel audio streams with the high precision time code. 9. The method system as claimed in claim 6 wherein: recording each of the simultaneous parallel video streams further comprises: compressing the simultaneous parallel video streams; packetizing the simultaneous parallel video streams; and starting each new frame on a new packet. 10. The method as claimed in claim 6 wherein: displaying the simultaneous parallel video streams on the first and second plurality of displays further comprises: playing recorded simultaneous parallel video streams on portions of each of the first and second plurality of displays corresponding to the display upon which the recorded simultaneous parallel video stream was displayed during recording. 11. A multi-stream multimedia system comprising: a first plurality of communication devices at a first location for providing a first portion of simultaneous parallel communication streams to a second location, the first plurality of communication devices being directed radially toward the first location; a first plurality of presentation devices at a second location for presenting the first portion of the simultaneous parallel communication streams directed radially away from the second location; a second plurality of communication devices at the second location for providing a second portion of the simultaneous parallel communication streams to the first location, the second plurality of communication devices being directed radially away from the second location; a second plurality of presentation devices at the first location for presenting the second portion of the simultaneous parallel communication streams directed radially toward the first location; a computer system for providing a high precision time code for synchronizing presenting the simultaneous parallel communication streams; and a recorder system for recording the simultaneous parallel communication streams on the computer system using the high precision time code. 12. The system as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the recorder system further comprises: a recorder section for providing recorded simultaneous parallel communication streams; and an edit section for editing predetermined portions of the recorded simultaneous parallel communication streams. 13. The system as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the computer system: provides simultaneous parallel video streams as part of the simultaneous parallel communication streams; packetizes the simultaneous parallel video streams; and time stamps packets of the simultaneous parallel video streams with the high precision time code. 14. The system as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the computer system: provides simultaneous parallel video streams as part of the simultaneous parallel communication streams; packetizes the simultaneous parallel video streams; and starts each new frame on a new packet. 15. The system as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the computer system presents recorded simultaneous parallel communication streams on portions of each of the first and second plurality of presentation devices. 16. The system as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the first and second plurality of communication devices includes: a plurality of cameras for providing simultaneous parallel video streams and a plurality of directional microphones for providing simultaneous parallel audio streams; the first and second plurality of presentation devices includes a plurality of speakers for playing each of the simultaneous parallel audio streams; the computer system includes a control computer for providing the high precision time code of at least twice the highest video frame rate for synchronizing the simultaneous parallel video and audio streams; the computer system includes an audio computer using the high precision time code for recording each of the simultaneous parallel audio streams; and further comprising: a transmitter for transmitting the simultaneous parallel video and audio streams from the plurality of cameras and the plurality of directional microphones; and a receiver for receiving the simultaneous parallel video and audio streams from the transmitter for the computer system. 17. The system as claimed in claim 16 wherein: the computer system includes an audio computer for providing: slow audio play by periodic sampling of the simultaneous parallel audio streams, duplicating samples, and play of the samples; fast forwarding video play by display of only I-frames of the simultaneous parallel video streams; and reverse audio play by periodic sampling of the simultaneous parallel audio streams and skipping a predetermined number of samples. 18. The system as claimed in claim 16 wherein: the computer system further comprises display computers to: packetize the simultaneous parallel video streams; and time stamp packets of the simultaneous parallel video streams with the high precision time code; and the computer system further comprises an audio computer to: record simultaneous parallel audio streams; packetize the simultaneous parallel audio streams; and time stamp packets of the simultaneous parallel audio streams with the high precision time code. 19. The system as claimed in claim 16 wherein: the computer system provides for: compression of the simultaneous parallel video streams; packetization the simultaneous parallel video streams; and start of each new frame on a new packet. 20. The system as claimed in claim 16 wherein: the computer system provides for: display of the simultaneous parallel video streams on the plurality of displays; and play of recorded simultaneous parallel video streams on portions of each of the plurality of displays corresponding to the display upon which the recorded simultaneous parallel video stream was displayed during recording. 