Disclosed herein is a spray coating process for a robotic spray gun assembly comprising importing a discretized model of an object geometry to be coated; importing a numerically characterized spray pattern file; importing a robot motion file comprising a plurality of motion positions, dwell times and orientations defining a spray direction of the robotic spray gun; reading each motion position within the motion file; determining which portions of the object geometry are visible at each motion position; computing a void volume fraction at each visible portion of the object geometry based on the core compression, the incident angle of the robotic spray gun and the ricocheting of the spray for each motion position; and calculating total coating thickness on portions of the object geometry for the complete motion step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spray coating process for a robotic spray gun assembly comprising: importing a discretized model of an object geometry to be coated; importing a numerically characterized spray pattern file; importing a robot motion file comprising a plurality of motion positions, dwell times and orientations defining a spray direction of the robotic spray gun; reading each motion position within the motion file; determining which portions of the object geometry are visible at each motion position; computing a void volume fraction at each visible portion of the object geometry based on core compression, incident angle and ricocheting of the spray for each motion position; and calculating total coating thickness on portions of the object geometry for the complete motion step. 2. The spray coating process of claim 1, wherein the computing of the void volume fraction at each visible portion of the object geometry is accomplished by using the empirical equation (I) .function..alpha. ##EQU00002## where VVF=void volume fraction, IVVF=initial void volume fraction, CT represents a solid core thickness at any location on the surface of an object, PT represents a porous ring thickness at the same location, RT represents a ricochet thickness at the same location, A, B, C, k, m, n are constants, and .alpha. is the incident angle between the robotic spray gun and a perpendicular to a tangent taken at the surface. 3. The spray coating process of claim 2, wherein the constants A, B, C, k, l, or n each have a value of up to about 1. 4. The spray coating process of claim 1, wherein the importing a discretized model of an object geometry to be coated comprises creating a three-dimensional model of an object to be coated; enveloping the three-dimensional model with a finite element mesh having a plurality of facets; and enriching the plurality of facets with additional mathematical identifiers. 5. The spray coating process of claim 1, wherein the step of importing spray pattern file comprises spraying a plurality of test plates to identify respective spray gun pattern distribution characteristics of respective spray patterns; numerically characterizing each respective spray pattern; and generating a spray pattern database comprising the plurality of numerically characterized spray patterns. 6. The spray coating process of claim 1, wherein the step of importing a motion step file comprising a plurality of motion positions, dwell times and orientations, comprises generating a plurality of robot motion files; translating each respective motion file into x-y-z coordinates of the spray gun, a dwell time at each position, and a vector defining the orientation of the spray gun relative to the object geometry; and generating a robot motion database containing a plurality of motion step files. 7. The spray coating process of claim 4, wherein the three dimensional model is created using a computer aided design software application. 8. The spray coating process of claim 4, wherein the additional mathematical identifiers comprise an area, a centroid location, and a facet normal. 9. The spray coating process of claim 1, wherein the process is in algorithm form executed by a computer. 10. The spray coating process of claim 5, wherein the spray patterns are numerically characterized as a series of nth degrees polynomials representing thickness at various slices through the test plate, a cone angle, and the height of characterization. 11. The spray coating process of claim 4, wherein the step of determining which portions of the object geometry are visible at each motion step comprises determining which facets fall within the spray pattern by determining which facet centroids are within the spray pattern at the current position; and subjecting these facets to a shadowing test to exclude all facets occluded by facets closer to the spray gun by using the barycentric coordinates of one facet relative to another. 12. The spray coating process of claim 1, further comprising using a glancing factor on a convex surface geometry to account for spray coating that stick to a flat surface but scatter from a curved surface. 13. The spray coating process of claim 1, further comprising using a rebounding factor on a concave surface geometry to account for spray coating that scatter off of a portion of a curved surface but are captured by another portion. 