The invention relates a method for providing reconnection to a ferrule to a service line from within the bore of a lined host pipe adapted to carry a fluid, comprising lining the host pipe with a liner, locating the ferrule from within the lined host pipe, forming a passage for fluid through the liner to the ferrule, and forming a seal of the liner with the system whereby to obviate leakage of fluid between the liner and host pipe.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for providing reconnection to a ferrule of a service line from within the bore of a lined host pipe adapted to carry a fluid, comprising the steps of locally enlarging a bore of the ferrule, lining the host pipe with a liner, locating the ferrule from within the lined host pipe, forming a passage for fluid through the liner to the ferrule, and forming a seal of the liner with the ferrule whereby to obviate leakage of fluid between the liner and host pipe. 2. A method according to claim 1, the step of enlarging the bore of the ferrule comprising increasing the diameter of the bore of the ferrule. 3. A method according to claim 2, the step of increasing the diameter of the bore of the ferrule comprising increasing the diameter over only part of the length of the ferrule from the host pipe, whereby to provide a stepped bore through the ferrule. 4. A method according to claim 3, the increased diameter bore being formed to a standard diameter. 5. A method according to claim 4, the step of increasing the diameter of the bore comprising a reaming step. 6. A method according to claim 5, the step of locating the ferrule comprising monitoring changes in electrical impedance of an electrical coil adjacent the interior surface of the host pipe. 7. A method according to claim 6, the step of forming a passage through the liner comprising providing a connection device, and inserting said connection device through the liner into the enlarged part of the bore of the ferrule, whereby to engage the liner between the connection device and in the ferrule. 8. A method according to claim 7, the step of forming a passage through the bore of the liner comprising providing the connection device on an insertion device, inserting the insertion device into the bore by penetration through the liner to open said passage, and securing the connection device in the bore, with the liner secured to the host pipe and ferrule. 9. A method according to claim 8, the connection device being provided as a push-in connection device. 10. A method according to claim 9, the push-in connection device being provided with fastening means whereby it is retained in the enlarged part of the bore of the ferrule. 11. A method according to claim 10, the fastening means comprising an extruded liner part which on pushing in of the liner enters a groove formed in the wall of the ferrule. 12. A method according to claim 11, the insertion device comprising a pointed end having an annular seating at an end opposite the pointed end, the method comprising passing the connection device over the insertion device and supporting it on the annular sealing prior to penetration of the liner. 13. A method according to claim 1, the step of forming a seal comprising providing a connector device, inserting said device in the ferrule from inside the host pipe and securing it in the ferrule whereby to seal the liner in position. 14. A method according to claim 1, the host pipe comprising a plurality of ferrules, the method comprising the step of providing reconnection at each ferrule. 15. A method according to claim 14, comprising the step of locally enlarging a bore of each ferrule of the host pipe system to the same extent at each ferrule. 16. A method according to claim 1, carried out remotely by a robot inserted in the host pipe after lining of the host pipe with the liner. 