This invention relates generally to the targeting and biopsy of tissue for medical purposes, and more particularly to a targeted biopsy system which allows planning of tissue to be sampled, targeting of specific areas of tissue in reference to the plan, capturing the tissue sample and recording the source location of the tissue sample, particularly for use in collecting tissue samples from the prostate gland. A further purpose of this invention is to provide a targeted treatment system which allows planning of tissue to be treated, targeting of specific areas of tissue in reference to the plan, and delivering the treatment to the targeted tissue.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for biopsy of tissue of a mammalian body, the system comprising: an ultrasonic probe having an elongate housing with an exterior surface configured and arranged to be received within a body cavity of the mammalian body, said elongate housing having a central longitudinal axis extending therethrough, and said ultrasonic probe configurable to scan longitudinal scan planes and transverse scan planes that pass through tissue adjacent the body cavity, said longitudinal scan planes through said longitudinal axis and said transverse scan planes orthogonal to said longitudinal axis; a needle guide body concentrically mounted upon said exterior surface of said elongate housing of said ultrasonic probe, said needle guide body being rotatable about said longitudinal axis relative to said elongate housing and moveable along an axis parallel to said longitudinal axis relative to said elongate housing, and said needle guide body defining a needle guide channel that extends parallel to said longitudinal axis, said needle guide channel for guiding position and orientation of a flexible biopsy needle and cannula set passing therethough and exiting therefrom in order to take a biopsy of tissue adjacent the body cavity, wherein the flexible biopsy needle and cannula set includes a flexible biopsy needle surrounded by a flexible cannula; and a data processing system operably coupled to said ultrasonic probe, said data processing system including a display device and software system, said software system cooperating with said ultrasonic probe to display on said display device an image of one of said longitudinal scan planes and said transverse scan planes, wherein said software system is adapted to display said image in conjunction with guided movement of said flexible biopsy needle and cannula set through said guide channel of said needle guide body in order to monitor movement and position of said biopsy needle and cannula set within said body cavity. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein said flexible biopsy needle comprises a flexible stylet containing an extended specimen notch. 3. The system according to claim 2 wherein said stylet and said cannula include a pre-formed curve. 4. The system according to claim 2 wherein said stylet and said cannula are manufactured from flexible material such as Nitinol.RTM.. 5. The system according to claim 2 wherein said stylet and said cannula exclude a pre-formed curve. 6. The system according to claim 2 wherein said stylet is assembled from two or more sections each made of materials with different properties to improve the flexibility. 7. The system according to claim 2 wherein said cannula is assembled from two or more sections each made of materials with different properties to improve the flexibility. 8. The system according to claim 2 wherein the length of said specimen notch is increased to improve the flexibility of the stylet. 9. The system according to claim 2 wherein multiple specimen notches are used to improve the flexibility of the stylet. 10. The system according to claim 9 wherein the depth of the specimen notches varies to improve the flexibility of the stylet. 11. The system according to claim 1 wherein said needle guide body is comprised of: an insertion point opening into said channel and into which a biopsy needle and cannula set may be inserted; an exit point opening out of said channel spaced away from said insertion point and through which a portion of the biopsy needle and cannula set exits; means for redirecting said biopsy needle and cannula set wherein said biopsy needle and cannula set outwardly of said exit point is angled relative to said biopsy needle and cannula set remaining outwardly of said insertion point; and, a means of positioning said biopsy needle guide body relative to said ultrasonic imaging probe. 12. The system according to claim 11 wherein said means of redirecting said biopsy needle and cannula set physically bends an initially straight biopsy needle and cannula set. 13. The system according to of claim 11 wherein said means of redirecting said biopsy needle and cannula set straightens an initially curved biopsy needle and cannula set wherein said biopsy needle and cannula set reacquires curvature upon exiting said guide body. 14. The system according to claim 11 wherein said means of redirecting said biopsy needle and cannula set is comprised of one or more static angled or curved channels. 15. The system according to claim 11 wherein said means of redirecting said biopsy needle and cannula set is comprised of a movable device that moves said exit point relative to said insertion point. 16. A system according to claim 1, wherein: said biopsy needle and cannula of said biopsy needle and cannula set have a straight configuration, and said needle guide channel physically bends said biopsy needle and cannula into a bent configuration in conjunction with movement through said needle guide channel. 17. A system according to claim 1, wherein: said biopsy needle and cannula of said biopsy needle and cannula set have a curved configuration, and said needle guide channel straightens said biopsy needle and cannula set into a straight configuration in conjunction with movement through said needle guide channel, and wherein said biopsy needle and cannula return to said curved configuration upon leaving said needle guide channel. 18. A system according to claim 1, wherein: said needle guide channel defines a static curved path therethrough. 19. A system according to claim 1, wherein: said needle guide channel has a moveable device for adjusting curvature of a path therethrough. 20. A system according to claim 1, wherein: said needle guide body is selectively rotated about said longitudinal axis relative to said elongate housing and selectively moved along an axis parallel to said longitudinal axis relative to said elongate housing. 21. A system according to claim 1, wherein: said needle guide body is rotatable about said longitudinal axis relative to said elongate housing such that said needle guide channel lies within one of said longitudinal scanning planes. 22. A system according to claim 1, wherein: said needle guide channel includes an entrance and an exit, wherein said flexible biopsy needle and cannula set is operably received by said entrance and includes a portion that operably extends distally away from said exit into said body cavity. 23. A system according to claim 22, wherein: said needle guide body is rotatable about said longitudinal axis relative to said elongate housing such that said portion of said biopsy needle and cannula set that operably extends distally away from said exit lies within a select one of said longitudinal scanning planes. 24. A system according to claim 23, wherein: said portion of said biopsy needle and cannula set that operably extends distally away from said exit has a tip, and said needle guide body is moveable along the axis parallel to said longitudinal axis relative to said elongate housing such that said tip lies within a select one of said transverse scanning planes. 25. A system according to claim 1, further comprising: first means for manual indexed adjustment of rotation of said needle guide body about said longitudinal axis relative to said elongate housing; and second means for manual indexed movement of said needle guide body along the axis parallel to said longitudinal axis relative to said elongate housing. 26. A system according to claim 25, wherein: said first means comprises a rotatable collar disposed adjacent a fixed collar. 27. A system according to claim 25, wherein: said second means comprises a longitudinal slide and a longitudinal position controller. 28. A system according to claim 1, wherein: said software system includes interface means for identifying a set of needle paths. 29. A system according to claim 28, wherein: said interface means includes means for projecting a respective needle path onto an image of tissue adjacent the body cavity. 30. A system according to claim 29, wherein: said respective needle path is shown as a line in the event that said image is parallel to said respective needle path, and said respective needle path is shown as a circle in the event that said image is pierced by said respective needle path. 31. A system according to claim 28, wherein: said software system includes means for identifying and displaying coordinates for correlating position of said needle guide body to a respective needle path. 