The present invention provides a random access and random load dispensing unit including a housing, at least one support located in the housing and defining a first axis, a plurality of platforms movable along the support along the first axis, a plurality of bins supported on the platforms, the bins being movable with the platforms, and a shuttle assembly movable along the first axis and further movable along a second axis substantially perpendicular to the first axis between the plurality of platforms to access and retrieve products stored in the bins.
Claims We claim: 1. A random access and random load dispensing unit, comprising: a housing; at least one support located in the housing and defining a first axis; a platform movable along the support, and defining a second axis and a third axis; wherein the second axis and the third axis are substantially perpendicular to the first axis and each other; the platform supporting a plurality of storage locations extending along both the second and third axes, wherein a storage location is capable of storing at least one distinct, consumer-specific item, the consumer specific item being locatable at the storage location without predetermination and coupled with identifying information associating the item with a specific consumer; a plurality of bins, each bin supported by the movable platform, wherein each bin substantially contains a plurality of storage locations, and wherein the storage bins further comprise a plurality of walls, wherein the walls extending along the plane defined by the first and third axes contain a plurality of notches, wherein the notches in opposite walls are substantially aligned so as to form a plurality of substantially parallel storage location; and a shuttle assembly movable along the first axis and further movable along an axis chosen from the group consisting of the second or third axis to access and retrieve stored items. 2. A random access and random load dispensing unit, comprising: a housing; at least one support located in the housing and defining a first axis; a plurality of substantially co-planar platforms, at least two of the plurality movable along the support, and defining a second axis and a third axis; wherein the second axis and the third axis are substantially perpendicular to the first axis and each other; each movable platform supporting at least one bin, each bin substantially containing a plurality of storage locations extending along both the second and third axes, wherein a storage location is capable of storing at least one distinct, consumer-specific item locatable at the storage location without predetermination and coupled with identifying information associating the item with a specific consumer; wherein the storage bins further comprise a plurality of walls, wherein the walls extending along the plane defined by the first and third axes contain a plurality of notches, wherein the notches in opposite walls are substantially aligned so as to form a plurality of substantially parallel storage location; and a shuttle assembly movable along the first axis and further movable along an axis chosen from the group consisting of the second or third axis to access and retrieve stored items. 3. The dispensing unit of claim 2, wherein the shuttle assembly is movable along both the second and third axes to access and retrieve stored products. 4. The dispensing unit of claim 3, further comprising a second support disposed along the second axis, wherein the shuttle assembly is movable along the second support from a first side of the housing to a second side of the housing opposite the first side. 5. The dispensing unit of claim 4, further comprising a carriage support movable along the first support, wherein the carriage is movable along the carriage support from a first side of the housing to a second side of the housing opposite the first side. 6. The dispensing unit of claim 5, further comprising a third support disposed along the third axis, wherein the shuttle assembly is movable along the third support from the front of the housing to the rear of the housing. 7. The dispensing unit of claim 6, wherein the shuttle assembly further comprises a barcode reader. 8. The dispensing unit of claim 7, wherein the barcode reader associates a consumer-specific item with the storage location where the item is stored. 9. The dispensing unit of claim 8, wherein the identifying information is a bar code. 10. The dispensing unit of claim 9, wherein the consumer-specific item is a prescription medication that legally may be delivered to a consumer. 11. The dispensing unit of claim 10, wherein substantially all consumer-specific items stored within the dispensing unit are prescription medications that legally may be delivered to consumers. 12. The dispensing unit of claim 11, wherein the housing encloses at least 500 storage locations. 