At present, the reposition of base plates in an electrochemical process in the cathode stripping machine system is carried out manually, which implies a loss in the efficiency, high exposure to risk associated with the removal of plates and additional labor force being used. Due to these drawbacks, a robotic system is developed for the reposition and/or removal of base plates from cathode stripping machine. The robotic system comprises an anthropomorphous robotic manipulator and a gripping mechanism which allows taking the base plates from a mobile drawer rack and moves it through a defined path to the transfer station in a synchronized way with the control system of the cathode stripping machine, it replaces the base plates as they are rejected. Thus, most of the major problems associated with the safety of the personnel and the productivity of the manual and/or mechanical process are eliminated.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for repositioning base plates from cathode stripping machines using an anthropomorphous robotic manipulator comprising the steps of said manipulator receiving data indicating a grade of a base plate which has completed a stripping cycle; said manipulator further receiving data indicating an attribute of mobile drawer racks and slots available in said racks for base plates; said manipulator taking said base plate from a stripping machine; said manipulator manipulating said base plate; said manipulator selecting a mobile drawer rack for delivery of said base plate, said selection based upon said grade of said base plate and availability of slots and said attribute of said mobile drawer rack; and said manipulator delivering said base plate to an available slot in said selected mobile drawer rack; wherein said manipulator is comprised of at least 5 degrees of freedom, a communication, acquisition, and control system, and gripper and said attribute is a grade for base plates in said rack. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said manipulator is capable of taking, manipulating, and releasing base plates or cathodes in different paths within said manipulator's work area. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said manipulator is mounted on a fixed support located between said mobile drawer racks and said stripping machine. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said manipulator communicates directly or through a program logic controller interface with a control system for a wax or a waxless stripping process. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said manipulator obtains and interprets information from an analogue or a digital sensor in a wax or a waxless stripping process. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said manipulator generates an analogue or a digital signal to control an analogue or a digital input device. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said gripper is pneumatically, hydraulically, or mechanically controlled. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said gripper is comprised of at least 4 fingers. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said manipulator includes an electrical system driven by three-stage induction motors with vectorial or scalar control. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said manipulator operates the system automatically or semi-automatically, and also allows for solution scalability. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said manipulator is integrated electronically with a stripping process characterized by a wax or a waxless technology. 