A composite structure is provided. In one embodiment, the structure includes at least one ply of preimpregnated material formed into a curved elongated member of continuous fibers onto a mandrel. The fibers have a select orientation and the curved elongated member has a defined length. The curved elongated member further has a cross-sectional geometry that varies along the length.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for forming an elongated composite member, the apparatus comprising: a mandrel; and a carriage assembly including, at least one squeegee configured to help shape at least one ply of preimpregnated material; and a plurality of rollers configured to press the at least one ply of preimpregnated material over the mandrel to form the elongated composite member. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the squeegee is configured to pull wrinkles from the at least one ply. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one squeegee is configured to pull wrinkles from the at least one ply at one or more intermediate locations among the plurality of rollers. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the carriage assembly further comprises: a material dispensing device configured to dispense the at least one ply on the mandrel. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the material dispensing device further includes: a supply and tension roller configured to supply the at least one ply on a backing; feed rollers configured to remove the at least one ply and backing from the supply and tension roller; a redirect roller configured to direct the at least one ply and backing to the feed rollers; a cutter configured to selectively cut the at least one ply and backing at a select length; and a tack roller configured to tack the at least one ply and backing on the mandrel. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising: a take up roller configured to collect the backing after the at least one ply has been pressed against the mandrel. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the backing is a flexible backing used to protect the at least one ply when it is being formed into the elongated composite member. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the backing is a polymer backing. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mandrel has a curvature. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein a cross-sectional geometry of the mandrel varies along a length of the mandrel. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the elongated composite member is formed by the least one ply of continuous preimpregnated material. 