A method and apparatus are provided for stamping a piece of ePaper. A grid is positioned within a selected distance to a first side of the piece of ePaper. A grounding pin conductively connects a conductive backing plate located on a second side of the piece of ePaper. The grounding pin completes a voltage path from the grid through the piece of ePaper to the conductive backing plate. A voltage is supplied to the grid and supplying the voltage to the grid changes the appearance of the piece of ePaper to form a stamped image.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a support structure; a handle connected to the support structure, wherein the handle is used to manipulate the support structure; a grid connected to the support structure, wherein the grid has circuitry to cause changes in an appearance of a piece of ePaper; and a grounding pin electrically connected to the grid, wherein the grid supplies a voltage to change the appearance of the piece of ePaper when the grid comes within a selected distance of a first side of the piece of ePaper such that, when the grounding pin contacts a conductive backing plate located on a second side of the piece of ePaper, a voltage path is completed from the grid through the piece of ePaper to the conductive backing plate to form a stamped image. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a flexible backing, wherein the flexible backing connects the grid to the support structure and provides flexibility to the grid when the grid is pressed against the piece of ePaper. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a spring loaded backing, wherein the spring loaded backing connects the grid to the support structure and provides flexibility to the grid when the grid is pressed against the piece of ePaper. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the spring loaded backing is a transparent spring loaded backing and wherein the grid is a transparent grid. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the transparent grid and the transparent spring loaded backing are mounted at an angle such that light from a set of light emitting devices is not reflected off the transparent grid or the transparent spring loaded backing into an imaging system. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the grid is comprised of mini-transistors that supply the voltage to change the appearance of the piece of ePaper. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the grid is composed of a plurality of points and wherein each of the plurality of points is individually controllable so the appearance of the piece of ePaper changes. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: an imaging system, wherein the imaging system is comprised of a set of light emitting devices and a video camera, wherein the set of light emitting devices provide necessary lighting for the video camera to view the piece of ePaper. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the video camera captures images of the piece of ePaper to form captured images. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the captured images are used to align a stamping mechanism so that the piece of ePaper may be stamped correctly. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the captured images are used to determine whether an existing image on the piece of ePaper needs updating. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the images are used to determine whether a stamped image is successfully written. 13. A method for stamping a piece of ePaper, the method comprising: positioning a grid within a selected distance to a first side of the piece of ePaper; conductively connecting a grounding pin to a conductive backing plate located on a second side of the piece of ePaper, wherein a voltage path is completed from the grid through the piece of ePaper to the conductive backing plate; supplying a voltage to the grid, wherein supplying the voltage to the grid changes an appearance of the piece of ePaper to form a stamped image; and capturing images of the first side of the piece of ePaper using an imaging system to form captured images; and aligning the grid with the first side of the piece of ePaper using the captured images so that the piece of ePaper may be stamped correctly. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: determining whether an existing image on the piece of ePaper needs updating using the captured images. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising: determining whether the stamped image was successfully written using the captured images. 