Compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of growth hormone receptor and/or insulin like growth factor-I (IGF-I). The compositions comprise oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acid encoding growth hormone receptor. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of growth hormone receptor expression and for diagnosis and treatment of disease associated with expression of growth hormone receptor and/or insulin-like growth factor-I are provided. Diagnostic methods and kits are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound consisting of 20 to 50 nucleobases, wherein said compound comprises the nucleobase sequence of SEQ ID NO: 19; and wherein said compound is at least 90% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4 as measured over the entire length of said compound. 2. The compound according to claim 1 wherein said compound is an oligonucleotide. 3. The compound according to claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide is a single-stranded oligonucleotide. 4. The compound according to claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide is a DNA oligonucleotide. 5. The compound according to claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide is a RNA oligonucleotide. 6. The compound according to claim 1, wherein said compound is a short interfering RNA (siRNA) molecule. 7. The compound according to claim 1, wherein said compound is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4 as measured over the entire length of said compound. 8. The compound according to claim 1, wherein said compound comprises at least one modification selected from the group consisting of a modified internucleoside linkage, a modified nucleobase, and a modified sugar. 9. The compound according to claim 8, wherein said compound comprises at least one modified sugar selected from the group consisting of a 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl), and a 4'--(CH.sub.2).sub.n--O-2' ridge, wherein n is 1 or 2. 10. The compound according to claim 8 wherein said compound comprises at least one phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 11. The compound according to claim 8 wherein said compound comprises at least one 5-methylcytosine. 12. The compound of claim 2, wherein said comprises a ten deoxynucleotide region flanked on both the 5' end and the 3' end of said ten deoxynucleotide region with at least five 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) nucleotides, wherein each internucleoside linkage in said antisense oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate linkage and wherein each cytosine in said antisense oligonucleotide is a 5-methylcytosine. 13. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the compound of claim 12 and an ingredient selected from the group consisting of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, penetration enhancer, excipient and combinations thereof. 14. The compound of claim 1, wherein said compound is from 20 to 30 nucleobases in length. 15. The compound of claim 14, comprising at least one modification selected from the group consisting of a modified internucleoside linkage, a modified sugar, and a modified nucleobase. 16. The compound of claim 15, having at least one modified sugar selected from the group consisting of a 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) and a 4'-(CH.sub.2).sub.n--O-2' ridge, wherein n is 1 or 2. 17. The compound of claim 15 having at least one phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 18. The compound of claim 15 having at least one 5-methylcytosine. 19. The compound of claim 15, wherein said compound is a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. 20. The compound of claim 14, wherein said compound is a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. 21. The compound of claim 14, wherein said compound is at least 95% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4 as measured over the entire length of said compound. 22. The compound of claim 14, wherein said compound is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4 as measured over the entire length of said compound. 23. The compound of claim 12, wherein said compound is 20 nucleotides in length. 24. The compound of claim 22, wherein said compound is an oligonucleotide. 25. The compound of claim 24, comprising at least one 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) nucleotide, at least one phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage, and at least one 5-methylcytosine. 26. The compound of claim 25, wherein said compound comprises: a region of deoxynucleotides flanked on both the 5' end and the 3' end of said deoxynucleotide region with at least one 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) nucleotide; wherein each internucleoside linkage of said compound is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage; and wherein each cytosine of said compound is a 5'methylcytosine. 27. A compound comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 20 linked nucleosides and having a nucleobase sequence consisting of the nucleobase sequence recited in SEQ ID NO: 19, wherein said modified oligonucleotide consists of a ten deoxynucleotide region flanked on both the 5' end and the 3' end of said ten deoxynucleotide region with five 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) nucleotides, wherein each internucleoside linkage in said modified oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate linkage and each cytosine in said modified oligonucleotide is a 5-methylcytosine. 28. A composition comprising the compound of claim 27 or a salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 29. The composition of claim 28, wherein the salt is a sodium salt. 30. The compound of claim 1, wherein said compound comprises: a region of deoxynucleotides flanked on both the 5' end and the 3' end of said deoxynucleotide region with at least one 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) nucleotide; wherein each internucleoside linkage of said compound is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage; and wherein each cytosine of said compound is a 5-methylcytosine. 31. The compound of claim 2, wherein said compound is 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, or 26 nucleobases in length. 32. The compound of claim 1, wherein said compound is at least 95% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4 as measured over the entire length of said compound. 33. The compound of claim 1, wherein said compound is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4 as measured over the entire length of said compound. 