A medical instrument assembly comprises an elongated shaft, a tool carried by the distal end of the elongated shaft for performing a medical procedure on a patient, a plurality of controllably bendable sections spaced along the elongated shaft and disposed proximal to the tool, a plurality of actuation elements extending within the elongated shaft for respectively actuating the controllably bendable sections, and an instrument coupler mounted to the proximal end of the elongated shaft, with the instrument coupler configured for coupling an electromechanical drive to the actuation elements. A robotic medical system comprises the previously described medical instrument assembly, a user interface configured for generating at least one command, a drive unit coupled to the plurality of actuating elements of the medical instrument assembly, and an electric controller configured, in response to the command(s), for directing the drive unit to moves the actuating elements to actuate the controllably bendable sections.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A medical instrument assembly, comprising: an elongated shaft having a proximal end and a distal end; a tool carried by the distal end of the elongated shaft for performing a medical procedure on a patient; a plurality of controllably bendable sections spaced along the elongated shaft and disposed proximal to the tool; a plurality of actuation elements extending within the elongated shaft for respectively actuating the controllably bendable sections; and an instrument coupler mounted to the proximal end of the elongated shaft, the instrument coupler configured for coupling an electromechanical drive to the actuation elements, wherein the instrument coupler carries a plurality of rotatable wheels to which the actuation elements are respectively mounted. 2. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the controllably bendable sections are flexible. 3. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising another plurality of actuation elements extending within the elongated shaft for respectively actuating the controllably bendable sections. 4. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the actuation elements respectively terminate in distal regions of the controllably bendable sections. 5. The medical instrument assembly of claim 4, further comprising transition segments located at the distal regions of the controllably bendable sections, wherein the actuation elements respectively terminate in the transition segments. 6. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising another actuation element extending within the elongated shaft for actuating the tool. 7. The medical instrument assembly of claim 6, further comprising means for decoupling motion at the controllably bendable sections from the tool actuation. 8. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the actuation elements includes a cable. 9. The medical instrument assembly of claim 8, wherein each of the actuation elements further includes a sleeve disposed about the cable to prevent compression of the respective cable. 10. The medical instrument assembly of claim 9, wherein each of the actuation elements includes a helical spring disposed about the respective sleeve. 11. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising an adapter coupler to which the instrument coupler is configured for being removably mated, the adapter coupler configured for coupling the electromechanical drive to the adapter coupler. 12. The medical instrument assembly of claim 11, further comprising cabling extending from the adapter coupler and configured for coupling the drive unit to the adapter coupler. 13. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising a carriage on which the instrument coupler is mounted. 14. A robotic medical system, comprising: the medical instrument assembly of claim 1; a user interface configured for generating at least one command; a drive unit coupled to the plurality of actuating elements of the medical instrument assembly; and an electric controller configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to moves the actuating elements to actuate the controllably bendable sections. 15. The robotic medical system of claim 14, wherein the at least one command comprises movements made at the user interface, and the electric controller is configured for directing the drive unit to move the actuating elements to effect movements of the controllably bendable sections corresponding to the movements at the user interface. 16. The robotic medical system of claim 14, wherein the user interface is located remotely from the drive unit. 17. The robotic medical system of claim 14, wherein the electrical controller is coupled to the drive unit via external cabling. 18. The robotic medical system of claim 14, wherein the drive unit has a motor array. 19. The robotic medical system of claim 14, wherein the drive unit is coupled to the actuating elements via external cabling. 