A method and apparatus are provided for controlling at least one function of a motor vehicle utilizing a member such as a touch pad or touch screen for receiving inputs of the driver thereof, which member is generally located on the dashboard of the vehicle and may be plastic and curvilinear and may contain actuation devices such as knobs, sliders and switches. A computer analyzes data inputted by the driver and an active tactile feedback signal may be provided to the touch member to signal the driver.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a function of a motor vehicle by a driver of said vehicle, comprising the steps of: providing a touch surface member within the vehicle interior having a surface able to be touched by said driver, said touch surface member generating location data in two dimensions when touched; sensing the location of a finger on said touch surface member; and using said sensed location information, providing a tactile feedback signal to said finger, wherein the tactile feedback signal includes at least one of a frequency, intensity and pulse sequence selected using the location of the touch input on the touch surface member. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said tactile feedback signal is provided piezo-electrically. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said function is one of heat, light, or fan speed. 4. Apparatus for assisting a driver to control at least one function of a motor vehicle, comprising: a touch member which generates position data corresponding to the location in two dimensions of one or more fingers in contact with said touch member; a computer to process said data from said touch member and control a function of the vehicle; and means to excite at least a portion of said touch member to provide a tactile feedback signal, wherein the tactile feedback signal includes at least one of a frequency, intensity and pulse sequence selected based on said position data. 5. Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said touch member is a touch pad. 6. Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said touch member is a touch screen. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein images are displayed in rear projection on said touch screen. 8. Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said sensed touch location is determined electro-optically. 9. Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said tactile feedback signal is provided piezo-electrically. 10. Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said tactile feedback signal consists of one of a variable vibration frequency or intensity. 11. Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said tactile feedback signal consists of a variable pulse sequence. 12. A method for assisting a driver to control at least one function of a motor vehicle comprising the steps of: providing a touch screen capable of displaying two dimensional images and which generates position data when contacted by one or more fingers; providing a computer to process said position data from said touch screen in order to control the display of images and to control at least one function of said vehicle; generating position data corresponding to the location of one or more fingers in contact with said touch screen; analyzing said position data in order to determine tactile feedback information to be provided to said driver; and based on said information, exciting at least a portion of said touch screen to provide tactile feedback. 13. A method according to claim 12, wherein images are displayed in rear projection on said touch screen. 14. A method according to claim 12, wherein said tactile feedback consists of one of varying vibration frequency or intensity. 15. A method according to claim 12, wherein said tactile feedback consists of varying a pulse sequence. 16. A method according to claim 12 wherein said function is one of heat, light, or fan speed. 17. A method according to claim 12, wherein said touch screen is made of plastic. 18. A method according to claim 12, wherein said touch screen is of a desired curvilinear shape. 19. A method according to claim 12, wherein said tactile feedback includes at least one of a frequency, intensity and pulse sequence selected as a function of said position data. 20. Apparatus for controlling a function of a motor vehicle, the apparatus comprising: a curvilinear plastic member in a position able to be touched by a user; means to sense the location of a touch input on said plastic member; means to generate position data representing said location in two dimensions; means to control the vehicle function using said position data; and means to excite at least a portion of said plastic member to provide a tactile feedback signal to the user. 21. Apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said plastic member is made in a desired shape. 22. Apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said plastic member is a touch pad. 23. Apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said plastic member is a touch screen. 24. Apparatus according to claim 23, wherein images are displayed in rear projection on said touch screen. 25. Apparatus according to claim 23, further including a virtual acuation device displayed on said touch screen. 26. Apparatus according to claim 25, wherein said virtual actuation device is chosen from a group comprising knobs, switches, sliders and levers. 27. Apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said sensed touch location is determined electro-optically. 28. Apparatus according to claim 20, wherein the function is one of heat, light, or fan speed. 29. Apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said tactile feedback signal includes at least one of a frequency, intensity and pulse sequence selected as a function of said location of said touch input. 