A method of controlling a plurality of crafts in an operational area includes providing a command system, a first craft in the operational area coupled to the command system, and a second craft in the operational area coupled to the command system. The method further includes determining a first desired destination and a first trajectory to the first desired destination, sending a first command from the command system to the first craft to move a first distance along the first trajectory, and moving the first craft according to the first command. A second desired destination and a second trajectory to the second desired destination are determined and a second command is sent from the command system to the second craft to move a second distance along the second trajectory.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a plurality of crafts in an operational area, the method comprising: providing a command system; providing a first craft in the operational area and coupled to the command system; providing a second craft in the operational area and coupled to the command system; determining a first desired destination and a first trajectory to the first desired destination; sending a first command from the command system to the first craft to move a first distance along the first trajectory; moving the first craft according to the first command; sensing of the operational area by the first craft to obtain sensing information; transmitting the sensing information to the command system; determining a second desired destination and a second trajectory to the second desired destination; and sending a second command from the command system to the second craft to move a second distance along the second trajectory. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second command is sent after sending the first command. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first distance is shorter than a distance of the first trajectory to the first desired destination. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second distance is shorter than a distance of the second trajectory to the second desired destination. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first desired destination is the same as the second desired destination. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first desired destination is different from the second desired destination. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the command system is in the operational area. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the command system is outside of the operational area. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first craft is at least one of ground-based, subsurface-based, airborne, spaceborne, or waterborne. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a third craft in the operational area and coupled to at least one of the command system, the first craft, or the second craft; determining a third desired destination and a third trajectory to the third desired destination; sending a third command from the at least one of the command system, the first craft, or the second craft to the third craft to move a third distance along the third trajectory; moving the third craft according to the third command. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising determining a third trajectory. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the third trajectory is the same as the first trajectory. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the third trajectory is different from the first trajectory. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the determining of the third trajectory is based on the determined location of the first craft, and the third trajectory is toward the first desired destination. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining a third desired destination, and wherein the third trajectory is a trajectory to the third desired destination. 16. The method of claim 11, further comprising sending a fourth command from the command system to the first craft to move a fourth distance along a fourth trajectory. 17. The method of claim 11, further comprising detecting a characteristic, wherein the determining of the third trajectory is triggered by the detection of the characteristic. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the detecting the characteristic is by at least one of the first craft, the second craft, or the command system. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the characteristic is temporal. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the characteristic is spatial. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein the characteristic is a location of the first craft. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein the characteristic is a feature of the operational area. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein the characteristic is a feature of an object in the operational area. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the object is an obstacle. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the feature is movement of the object. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the feature is a difference between the object and the operational area. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein the feature is a composition of the object. 28. The method of claim 23, wherein the feature is a location of the object. 29. The method of claim 11, further comprising: providing a first dataset of information; comparing the sensing information to the first dataset to detect an anomaly, wherein the determining of the third trajectory is triggered by detection of the anomaly. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the first dataset of information comprises information sensed from the operational area at a previous time. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein the first dataset of information comprises information sensed from a different operational area. 32. The method of claim 29, wherein the first dataset of information comprises information expected to be sensed from the operational area. 33. The method of claim 29, wherein the anomaly is a difference between the first dataset and the sensing information. 34. The method of claim 29, wherein further sensing of the operational area is performed by at least one of the second craft, the third craft, or the command system. 35. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving the second craft according to the second command after moving the first craft according to the first command. 36. The method of claim 35, further comprising determining a location of the second craft after moving the second craft according to the second command. 37. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a location of the first craft after moving the first craft according to the first command. 38. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a third trajectory for the first craft by the command system at least in part based on the sensing information. 39. The method of claim 38, further comprising sending a third command to the first craft to move a third distance along the third trajectory. 40. The method of claim 1, wherein the command system floats above the operational area. 41. A method of controlling a plurality of crafts in an operational area, the method comprising: providing a command system; providing a first craft in the operational area and coupled to the command system; providing a second craft in the operational area and coupled to the command system; providing a third craft in the operational area and coupled to the first craft, the second craft, or both; determining a first desired destination and a first trajectory to the first desired destination; sending a first command from the command system to the first craft to move a first distance along the first trajectory; moving the first craft according to the first command; determining a second desired destination and a second trajectory to the second desired destination; sending a second command from the command system to the second craft to move a second distance along the second trajectory; determining a third desired destination and a third trajectory to the third desired destination; sending a third command from the first craft, the second craft, or both to the third craft to move a third distance along the third trajectory; moving the third craft according to the third command. 