A system and method to estimate a location of a speaker who produces a sound signal even in a non-stationary noise environment. The system includes a signal input module receiving a first sound signal from an outside; an initialization module preparing a sound map, on which a spatial spectrum for the first sound signal, produced from at least one fixed sound source and received by the signal input module, is arranged, and estimating a location of the fixed sound source; a storage module storing information about the estimated location of the fixed sound source; and a speaker's location estimation module estimating a location where a second sound signal is produced using information about the spatial spectrum for sound signals including the first sound signal received by the signal input module and the information about the estimated location of the fixed sound source.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system to estimate a speaker's location in a non-stationary noise environment, comprising: a signal input module receiving a first sound signal from at least one fixed sound source, the fixed sound source being external to the system; an initialization module preparing a sound map, on which a spatial spectrum for the first sound signal and received by the signal input module is arranged, and estimating a location of the fixed sound source; a storage module storing information about the estimated location of the fixed sound source; and a speaker's location estimation module estimating a location where a second sound signal is produced using information about a spatial spectrum for sound signals including the first sound signal received by the signal input module and the information about the estimated location of the fixed sound source. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the signal input module comprises a microphone array including at least two microphones. 3. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the spatial spectrum includes information about a level of the first sound signal according to a direction of the first sound signal. 4. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sound map includes information that indicates the first sound signal produced from the fixed sound source as the spatial spectrum according to a multiple signal classification (MUSIC) algorithm in a two-dimensional planar space including the fixed sound source. 5. The system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the sound map includes respective spatial spectrum information of at least two areas among a plurality of areas obtained by dividing the two-dimensional planar space. 6. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the initialization module forms respective tracks in directions where levels of the sound signals exceed a predetermined threshold on the spatial spectrum in an area that includes at least two different locations on the prepared sound map, and if the respective tracks converge into an area of the sound map, the initialization module estimates the converging area as the location of the fixed sound sources. 7. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the initialization module estimates a maximum value of a potential function set in proportion to a level of the first sound signal produced from the fixed sound source as the location of the fixed sound source. 8. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the speaker's location estimation module obtains the spatial spectrum by a multiple signal classification (MUSIC) algorithm with spectral subtraction using information about the spatial spectrum for the sound signals including the first sound signal received by the signal input module and the information about the estimated location of the fixed sound source, and estimates the location where the second sound signal is produced by processing a gray-scaled image corresponding to the spatial spectrum by the MUSIC algorithm with spectral subtraction. 9. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the speaker's location estimation module binarizes the gray-scaled image, and estimates the location where the sound signal is produced according to a pattern of successive pixels constituting the binarized image. 10. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the binarized image is an intensity-controlled image. 11. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the binarized image is produced by binarizing values of the pixels constituting the gray-scaled image into values corresponding to black or white based on a threshold value. 12. The system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the threshold value is calculated by an Otsu method. 13. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein if the number of successive pixels having the same pixel value and constituting the binarized image exceeds a preset number, the speaker's location estimation module estimates a direction where the pixels are located as a direction where the sound signal is produced. 14. A method for estimating a speaker's location in a non-stationary noise environment implemented by a system to estimate the speaker's location, comprising the operations of: (a) preparing a sound map on which a spatial spectrum for a first sound signal produced from at least one fixed sound source is arranged; (b) estimating a location of the fixed sound source from the sound map; (c) storing information about the estimated location of the fixed sound source; and (d) estimating a location where a second sound signal is produced using information about a spatial spectrum for sound signals including the first sound signal and the information about the estimated location of the fixed sound source, if the second sound signal is detected. 15. The method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the spatial spectrum includes information about a level of the first sound signal according to a direction of the first sound signal. 16. The method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the sound map includes information that indicates the first sound signal produced from the fixed sound source as the spatial spectrum according to a multiple signal classification (MUSIC) algorithm in a two-dimensional planar space including the fixed sound source. 17. The method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the sound map includes respective spatial spectrum information of at least two areas among a plurality of areas obtained by dividing the two-dimensional planar space. 18. The method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the estimating the location of the fixed sound source from the sound map comprises the operations of: (b-1) forming respective tracks in directions where levels of the sound signals exceed a predetermined threshold on the spatial spectrum in an area that includes at least two different locations on the prepared sound map; and (b-2) repeating the operation (b-1), starting from end points of the respective tracks; and (b-3) if the respective tracks converge into an area of the sound map, estimating the converging area as the location of the fixed sound sources. 19. The method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the estimating the location of the fixed sound source from the sound map comprises the operations of: setting a potential function in proportion to a level of the first sound signal produced from the fixed sound source; forming direction vectors, which are gradient information of the potential function, in directions where levels of the sound signals exceed a predetermined threshold on the spatial spectrum arranged on the sound map; and estimating a location corresponding to a maximum value of the potential function as a location of the fixed sound source if the maximum value of the potential function is found using the direction vectors. 20. The method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the estimating the location where the second sound signal is produced using information about the spatial spectrum for sound signals including the first sound signal and the information about the estimated location of the fixed sound source comprises the operations of: (d-1) obtaining the spatial spectrum by employing a multiple signal classification (MUSIC) algorithm with spectral subtraction using information about the spatial spectrum for the detected sound signals and the information about the estimated location of the fixed sound source; and (d-2) obtaining a gray-scaled image corresponding to the spatial spectrum obtained at the operation (d-1); (d-3) estimating the location where the sound signal is produced by processing the gray-scaled image. 21. The method as claimed in claim 20, further comprising the operations of: controlling an intensity of the gray-scaled image; binarizing the intensity-controlled image; and estimating the location where the sound signal is produced by processing the binarized image. 22. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the operation of binarizing the intensity-controlled image comprises the operation of binarizing values of the pixels constituting the intensity-controlled image into values corresponding to black or white based on a threshold value. 23. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the threshold value is calculated by an Otsu method. 24. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the operation of estimating the location where the sound signal is produced comprises the operation of estimating a direction where the pixels are located as a direction where the sound signal is produced if the number of successive pixels having the same pixel value exceeds a preset number. 25. The method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the sound signal is received by a microphone array including at least two microphones. 26. The method as claimed in claim 14, further comprising: if the second sound signal includes information that requires a specified operation, performing the specified operation. 