A method of emulating the human brain with its thought and rationalization processes is presented here, as well as a method of storing human-like thought. The invention provides for inclusion of psychological profiles, experience and societal position in an electronic emulation of the human brain. This permits a realistic human-like response by that emulation to the people and the interactive environment around it.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of emulating human cognition in a brain model containing a plurality of electronically represented neurons, wherein each of the neurons represents a unique concept with relationships to other neurons, comprising: providing a context pool memory having a set of references to neurons corresponding to neurons relevant to a present situational context, which neurons, their concepts and associated relationships relate to the present situation context that is defined by information input to the brain model; providing a reinforcement memory having a first set of neurons corresponding to experiential relationships, which experiential relationships define relationships associated with neurons that have previously been referenced within the context pool memory and have had relationships established thereto with other neurons referenced in the context pool memory over multiple inputs and situational contexts; and providing a long term memory having a second set of neurons corresponding to experiential relationships that have been frequently used when new information is received by the brain model and which experiential relationships have existed in the reinforcement memory, and wherein the long term memory neurons are marked as permanent, never to be deleted; wherein the neurons of the reinforcement memory are reflective of the neurons presently or formerly referenced in the context pool, and the neurons of the reinforcement memory are moved to the long term memory based upon continued activity in the reinforcement memory, which continued activity indicates continued activity over multiple inputs at different times and situational contexts, and wherein a neuron cannot simultaneously be in both the first set of neurons and the second set of neurons. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a list memory containing a set of neurons corresponding to completion of motor skills tasks. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising copying the contents of the long term memory and reinforcement memory. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising placing the copied contents of the long term memory and the reinforcement memory into a second brain model having a substantially similar structure to that of the first including a context pool memory, a reinforcement memory, and a long term memory. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising holding neurons in the reinforcement memory for a predetermined time period to determine a reinforcement of the neuron. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising selecting at least one neuron based upon a level of a reinforcing activity of the at least one neuron in the reinforcement memory during the predetermined time period and placing the at least one neuron into long term memory. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the reinforcing activity includes at least one of an emotional event, a stressful event, a traumatic event, and a repeated reference to the at least one neuron over a predetermined period of time. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing a neuron from the context pool when a firing of the neuron falls below a predetermined level. 