A method and a device for detecting objects in the blind spot of a vehicle are provided, which make it possible, through an adaptively decreased measuring time, to achieve a shorter response time for alerting a driver in the event of an imminent collision with an object in the blind spot. Due to the fact that the frequency and/or the width of a measuring signal is/are set as a function of the previously determined distance between the vehicle and the object, it is possible to increase the sampling rate proportional to the decrease in the distance between the vehicle and the object. This makes it possible to detect the closest object more rapidly, i.e., for the most relevant object for a potential collision to be evaluated, thereby generating an adequately early collision alert. The frequency of a measuring signal is preferably set reciprocally proportional to the determined distance between the vehicle and the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting an object in the surrounding environment of a vehicle, comprising: transmitting a measuring signal having a predefined sampling rate; receiving, within a predefined time interval subsequent to the transmission of the measuring signal, the measuring signal that has been at least one of reflected and scattered by an object in the surrounding environment of the vehicle; determining a distance between the vehicle and the object based on the received measuring signal; and setting a sampling rate of the measuring signal as a function of the determined distance between the vehicle and the object; wherein the distance between the vehicle and the object is determined based on an actual received measuring signal which has the predefined sampling rate. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the sampling rate of the measuring signal is set inversely proportional to the determined distance between the vehicle and the object. 3. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein the object is at least partially positioned in a blind spot of the vehicle, wherein the blind spot includes immediate left and rear areas surrounding the driver side of the vehicle. 4. The method as recited in claim 3, further comprising: determining a time of a potential collision between the vehicle and the object, based on at least an output signal of at least one steering angle sensor of the vehicle. 5. The method as recited in claim 4, wherein at least one of the measuring signal, the output signal of the at least one steering angle sensor, and an output signal of at least one yaw angle sensor of the vehicle is analyzed by an on-board computer of the vehicle. 6. The method as recited in claim 4, wherein the measuring signal is one of an ultrasonic signal, a radar signal, and a light-wave signal. 7. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein the measuring signal is the ultrasonic signal and is transmitted and received by an ultrasonic sensor of a Park Pilot.RTM. system. 8. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: determining a time of a potential collision between the vehicle and the object, based on at least an output signal of at least one steering angle sensor of the vehicle; wherein the sampling rate of the measuring signal is set inversely proportional to the determined distance between the vehicle and the object, wherein the object is at least partially positioned in a blind spot of the vehicle, wherein the blind spot includes immediate left and rear areas surrounding the driver side of the vehicle, wherein at least one of the measuring signal, the output signal of the at least one steering angle sensor, and an output signal of at least one yaw angle sensor of the vehicle is analyzed by an on-board computer of the vehicle, and wherein the measuring signal is one of an ultrasonic signal, a radar signal, and a light-wave signal. 9. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the measuring signal is the ultrasonic signal and is transmitted and received by an ultrasonic sensor of a parking system. 