The present invention relates to a method and a device for recording X-ray images by means of a robotically controlled C-arm system which includes an image recording system (9, 10) that can be rotated in a recording plane around a turning center (17) by means of a C-arm (7) and with which, through rotating of the C-arm (7), a plurality of radioscopic images of a region (14) of interest in an object (13) positioned on an object positioning facility (15) are recorded at different rotation angles, from which images one or more cross-sectional images or a three-dimensional image of a region (14) in the object can be reconstructed. With the method, the C-arm (7) is compliantly repositioned in a collision-free manner in synchronism with the rotation such that the region (14) of interest in an object will, at least at each rotation angle at which image recording takes place, be located within a cone beam (16) of an X-ray bundle of the image recording system (9, 10). The method and associated robotically controlled recording device thus enable the three-dimensional image reconstruction also of regions located at the edge of the object's longitudinal center line.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for recording X-ray images of a region of interest in an object by an image recording system attached to a C-arm, comprising: rotating the C-arm about a center of rotation; recording the x-ray images at a plurality of angles of rotation while rotating the C-arm; rescinding a lateral displacement of the C-arm when the C-arm is in a lateral position; and synchronously horizontally moving the C-arm with the rotation so that the region of interest lies within a cone beam of an X-ray bundle of the image recording system at the angles of rotation. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein a distance between an X-ray source and an X-ray detector of the image recording system is synchronously adjusted with the rotation to avoid a collision of the C-arm with the object or an object positioning device. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the C-arm is a robotically controlled C-arm. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, furthering comprising determining a maximum collision-free lateral displacement of the C-arm at the angles of rotation. 5. A recording device for recording X-ray images of a region of interest in an object, comprising: an image recording system that rotates about a center of rotation and records the x-ray images of the region of interest at a plurality of angles of rotation; a C-arm that rotates the image recording system and is synchronously horizontally moved with the rotation so that the region of interest lies within a cone beam of an X-ray bundle of the image recording system at the angles of rotation; and a control device that controls the rotation of the C-arm and the recording of the X-ray images and synchronously controls the horizontal move of the C-arm with the rotation so that a lateral displacement of the C-arm is rescinded when the C-arm is in a lateral position. 6. The recording device as claimed in claim 5, wherein a distance between an X-ray source and an X-ray detector of the image recording system is synchronously adjusted with the rotation to avoid a collision of the C-arm with the object or an object positioning device. 7. The recording device as claimed in claim 6, wherein the distance is motorized adjusted. 8. The recording device as claimed in claim 5, wherein the C-arm is a robotically controlled C-arm. 