A robot with a body, at least one leg on each side of the body, and a hip connecting the leg to the body. The hip is configured to abduct and adduct the leg. A linkage is configured to rotate the leg along a predetermined path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot leg mechanism comprising: a leg; a hip connected to the leg and configured to abduct and adduct the leg, the hip including: a rotatable frame portion, a pair of coupler gears, and an output gear engaging the pair of coupler gears; a linkage configured to rotate the leg along a predetermined path, the linkage including: a crank rotatably connected to the leg and driven by the output gear when the pair of coupler gears are driven in opposite directions and at the same speed to rotate the leg along the predetermined path, a first member pivotably connected to the leg, and a second member pivotably connected to the first member and connected to the frame portion; and a shaft coupled to the pair of coupler gears and the rotatable frame portion, the frame portion rotating about the shaft when the pair of coupler gears are driven in the same direction and at the same speed to abduct and adduct the leg; the coupler gears rotatable in the same or opposite directions at different speeds to both rotate the frame portion and turn the output gear to abduct and adduct the leg while rotating the leg along the predetermined path. 2. The robot leg mechanism of claim 1 further including an actuator for each coupler gear. 3. The robot leg mechanism of claim 2 in which the actuators are motors each including a pinion gear engaging an input gear which is fixed to a coupler gear. 4. The robot leg mechanism of claim 3 in which the motors are arranged serially. 5. The robot leg mechanism of claim 1 further including a foot assembly connected to the leg. 6. The robot leg mechanism of claim 5 further including a compliant interface between the foot assembly and the leg. 7. The robot leg mechanism of claim 6 in which the compliant interface includes a first spring. 8. The robot leg mechanism of claim 7 in which the first spring is a leaf spring configured to bend in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the leg. 9. The robot leg mechanism of claim 7 in which the compliant interface includes a second spring. 10. The robot leg mechanism of claim 9 in which the second spring is a torsional spring. 11. The robot leg mechanism of claim 10 in which the torsional spring is configured to flex in a direction transverse to a longitudinal axis of the leg. 12. The robot leg mechanism of claim 5 in which the foot assembly includes a walking toe. 13. The robot leg mechanism of claim 5 in which the foot assembly further includes at least one of an adhesion material, a gripping mechanism, a suction mechanism, and a magnetic mechanism for vertical climbing. 