System and method expanding and generalizing string selection aspects of an autoharp and applying to general forms of string arrays. String vibration may be sympathetic or induced by strumming, plucking, and/or electrical drive transducers. Volume of individual vibrating strings within arrays of strings may be mechanically or electronically controlled by chord buttons or a music keyboard. Electronic control can also be made with foot switches or incoming MIDI control signals. These controls may be used individually or in combination. Keyboard keys may be provided with key-travel sensors, key-surface sensors, or other sensors for continuously controlling volumes and octave mixings of subgroups of individual strings. Incoming MIDI control signals may also be used for controlling volumes and octave mixings of subgroups of individual strings. Outgoing control signals, such as MIDI, may be generated responsive to the plucking and/or the amplitude of and harmonic structure in the ongoing vibration of individual strings.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling volume of individual strings of a string instrument, said system comprising: a tuned array of strings, wherein each string of said array of strings comprises a fixed vibrating length and is adapted to be vibrated by an external stimulus; a dedicated vibration-sensing transducer coupled with each string of said array of strings, wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers generates an electrical signal responsive to vibrations of an associated string of said array of strings; a plurality of volume control elements, wherein each volume control element of said plurality of volume control elements provides volume control of an associated one or more strings of a proper subset of said array of strings, and wherein each volume control element of said plurality of volume control elements is controlled by an associated digital incoming volume control signal wherein the incoming volume control signal is a MIDI signal; and an audio interface providing an output audio signal responsive to each volume control element of said plurality of volume control elements. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said incoming volume control signal is generated by a chord button. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein said incoming volume control signal is generated by a foot switch. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein an outgoing control signal is generated responsive to plucking of at least one string of said array of strings. 5. The system according to claim 4, wherein said outgoing control signal is generated responsive to an amplitude of said plucking. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein an outgoing control signal is generated responsive to ongoing amplitude of vibration of said at least one string of said array of strings. 7. The system according to claim 4, wherein said outgoing control signal is a signal of MIDI format. 8. The system according to claim 4, wherein said outgoing control signal is adapted to trigger a synthesizer note. 9. The system according to claim 4, wherein said outgoing control signal is adapted to control lighting. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein vibration of at least one string of said array of strings is induced by strumming. 11. The system according to claim 1, wherein vibration of at least one string of said array of strings is mechanically induced sympathetic vibration. 12. The system according to claim 1, wherein vibration of at least one string of said array of strings is induced by at least one electrical drive transducer. 13. The system according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of electrical signals are individually directed to a multichannel signal processor. 14. The system according to claim 1, wherein groups of said plurality of electrical signals are directed to a multichannel signal processor. 15. A method for controlling volume of individual strings of a string instrument, said method comprising: vibrating one or more strings of a tuned array of strings, wherein each string of said array of strings comprises a fixed vibrating length, and wherein said vibrating is accomplished by external stimulus; coupling a dedicated vibration-sensing transducer with each string of said array of strings, wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers generates an electrical signal responsive to vibrations of an associated string of said array of strings; providing volume control using a plurality of volume control elements, each volume control element of said plurality of volume control elements being controlled responsive to an associated digital incoming volume control signal, wherein the incoming volume control signal is a MIDI signal, and wherein each volume control element of said plurality of volume control elements provides volume control of an associated one or more strings of a proper subset of said array of strings; and providing an output audio signal responsive to each volume control element of said plurality of volume control elements. 16. The method according to claim 15, wherein said incoming volume control signal is generated by a chord button. 17. The method according to claim 15, wherein said incoming volume control signal is generated by a foot switch. 18. The method according to claim 15, wherein an outgoing control signal is generated responsive to plucking of at least one string of said array of strings. 19. The method according to claim 18, wherein said outgoing control signal is generated responsive to an amplitude of said plucking. 20. The method according to claim 15, wherein an outgoing control signal is generated responsive to ongoing amplitude of vibration of said at least one string of said array of strings. 21. The method according to claim 18, wherein said outgoing control signal is a signal of MIDI format. 22. The method according to claim 18, wherein said outgoing control signal is adapted to trigger a synthesizer note. 23. The method according to claim 18, wherein said outgoing control signal is adapted to control lighting. 24. The method according to claim 15, wherein vibration of at least one string of said array of strings is induced by strumming. 25. The method according to claim 15, wherein vibration of at least one string of said array of strings is mechanically induced sympathetic vibration. 26. The method according to claim 15, wherein vibration of at least one string of said array of strings is induced by at least one electrical drive transducer. 27. The method according to claim 15, wherein said plurality of electrical signals are individually directed to a multichannel signal processor. 28. The method according to claim 15, wherein groups of said plurality of electrical signals are directed to a multichannel signal processor. 