A method for processing an image of a microfluidic device. The method includes receiving a first image of a microfluidic device. The first image corresponds to a first state. Additionally, the method includes receiving a second image of the microfluidic device. The second image corresponds to a second state. Moreover, the method includes transforming the first image and the second image into a third coordinate space. Also, the method includes obtaining a third image based on at least information associated with the transformed first image and the transformed second image, and processing the third image to obtain information associated with the first state and the second state.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for adjusting a classifier and processing an image of a microfluidic device, the method comprising: receiving a first image of a microfluidic device, the first image being associated with at least a first predetermined characteristic; generating a first plurality of features, using a processor, based on at least information associated with the first image; selecting a second plurality of features, using said processor, from the first plurality of features based on at least information associated with the first plurality of features and the at least a first predetermined characteristic; determining a third plurality of features, using said processor, based on at least information associated with the second plurality of features; processing information associated with the third plurality of features; determining at least a first likelihood based on at least information based on the third plurality of features and a first plurality of parameters; processing information associated with the first likelihood and the at least a first predetermined characteristic; adjusting the first plurality of parameters based on at least information associated with the first likelihood and the at least a first predetermined characteristic. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving a second image of a microfluidic device; generating the second plurality of features based on at least information associated with the second image; processing information associated with the second plurality of features; determining the third plurality of features based on at least information associated with the second plurality of features; processing information associated with the third plurality of features and the first plurality of adjusted parameters; determining whether a first crystal is present or absent in the second image based on at least information associated with the third plurality of features and the first plurality of adjusted parameters. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the determining whether the first crystal is present or absent in the second image comprises: determining a second likelihood that the first crystal is present in the second image based on at least information associated with the third plurality of features; processing information associated with the second likelihood and a first threshold; determining that the first crystal is present if the second likelihood exceeds a first threshold and the first crystal is absent if the second likelihood does not exceed the first threshold. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the first plurality of features comprises at least a neighborhood line detector feature, the neighborhood line detector feature being associated with detecting at least a straight line pattern. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the third plurality of features comprises a first Fisher feature. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the first Fisher feature is associated with a first image state and a second image state, each of the first image state and the second image state being selected from a group consisting of a crystal state, a phase/precipitate state, and a clear state. 7. A non-transitory computer-readable medium including instructions for adjusting a classifier and processing an image of a microfluidic device, the computer-readable medium comprising: one or more instructions for receiving a first image of a microfluidic device, the first image being associated with at least a first predetermined characteristic; one or more instructions for generating a first plurality of features based on at least information associated with the first image; one or more instructions for selecting a second plurality of features from the first plurality of features based on at least information associated with the first plurality of features and the at least a first predetermined characteristic; one or more instructions for determining a third plurality of features based on at least information associated with the second plurality of features; one or more instructions for processing information associated with the third plurality of features; one or more instructions for determining at least a first likelihood based on at least information based on the third plurality of features and a first plurality of parameters; one or more instructions for processing information associated with the first likelihood and the at least a first predetermined characteristic; one or more instructions for adjusting the first plurality of parameters based on at least information associated with the first likelihood and the at least a first predetermined characteristic. 8. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7 further comprising: one or more instructions for receiving a second image of a microfluidic device; one or more instructions for generating the second plurality of features based on at least information associated with the second image; one or more instructions for processing information associated with the second plurality of features; one or more instructions for determining the third plurality of features based on at least information associated with the second plurality of features; one or more instructions for processing information associated with the third plurality of features and the first plurality of adjusted parameters; one or more instructions for determining whether a first crystal is present or absent in the second image based on at least information associated with the third plurality of features and the first plurality of adjusted parameters. 9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8 wherein the one or more instructions for determining whether the first crystal is present or absent in the second image comprises: one or more instructions for determining a second likelihood that the first crystal is present in the second image based on at least information associated with the third plurality of features; one or more instructions for processing information associated with the second likelihood and a first threshold; one or more instructions for determining that the first crystal is present if the second likelihood exceeds a first threshold and the first crystal is absent if the second likelihood does not exceed the first threshold. 10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7 wherein the first plurality of features comprises at least a neighborhood line detector feature, the neighborhood line detector feature being associated with detecting at least a straight line pattern. 11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7 wherein the third plurality of features comprises a first Fisher feature. 12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11 wherein the first Fisher feature is associated with a first image state and a second image state, each of the first image state and the second image state being selected from a group consisting of a crystal state, a phase/precipitate state, and a clear state. 