A semiconductor device having a redistribution layer, and methods of forming same, are disclosed. After fabrication of semiconductor die on a wafer, a tape assembly is applied onto a surface of the wafer, in contact with the surfaces of each semiconductor die on the wafer. The tape assembly includes a backgrind tape as a base layer, and a film assembly adhered to the backgrind tape. The film assembly in turn includes an adhesive film on which is deposited a thin layer of conductive material. The redistribution layer pattern is traced into the tape assembly, using for example a laser. Thereafter, the unheated portions of the tape assembly may be removed, leaving the heated redistribution layer pattern on each semiconductor die.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of fabricating a semiconductor package from a semiconductor wafer, the semiconductor package including a semiconductor die having a redistribution layer, the method comprising the steps of: (a) applying a tape assembly over at least portions of the semiconductor wafer, the tape assembly including a tape, an adhesive layer and conductive material applied to the adhesive layer, the adhesive layer positioned adjacent the semiconductor wafer; (b) adhering portions of the adhesive layer to a surface of the semiconductor die on the semiconductor wafer in a pattern defining a path between a first location of a die bond pad of the semiconductor die and a second location where the die bond pad is to be redistributed; and (c) removing portions of the tape assembly, leaving behind adhered to the semiconductor wafer the pattern of the adhesive layer defined in said step (b) and the conductive material applied to the pattern of the adhesive layer defined in said step (b). 2. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said step (b) of adhering portions of the adhesive layer to a surface of the semiconductor die comprises the step of heating an interface between the adhesive layer and the surface of the semiconductor die along the pattern defining the path between the first and second locations. 3. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said step (c) of removing portions of the tape assembly comprises the step of pulling away the portions of the tape assembly. 4. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said step (c) of removing portions of the tape assembly comprises the step of pulling away the tape. 5. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said step (c) of removing portions of the tape assembly comprises the step of severing portions of the adhesive layer adhered to the surface of a semiconductor die in said step (b) from portions of the adhesive layer not adhered to the surface of a semiconductor die in said step (b). 6. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising forming the tape assembly by the steps of: (d) depositing the conductive material on the adhesive layer; and (e) applying the adhesive layer and conductive material to the tape. 7. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step (f) of electrically coupling the first die bond pad to an end of the conductive material left in said step (c). 8. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step (h) of singulating the semiconductor die from the semiconductor wafer after said step (c) of removing portions of the tape assembly. 9. A method as recited in claim 2, wherein said step of heating an interface between the adhesive layer and the surface of the semiconductor die along the pattern defining the path between the first and second locations comprises the step of heating the interface with a laser. 10. A method as recited in claim 4, wherein said step (c) of removing portions of the tape assembly further comprises the step of pulling away, with the tape, portions of the conductive material and adhesive layer not adhered to the surface of a semiconductor die in said step (b). 11. A method as recited in claim 6, said step (d) of depositing the conductive material on the adhesive layer comprising the step of sputtering the conductive material on the adhesive layer. 12. A method as recited in claim 6, said step (d) of depositing the conductive material on the adhesive layer comprising the step of depositing at least one of titanium and aluminum onto the adhesive layer. 13. A method as recited in claim 6, said step (d) of depositing the conductive material on the adhesive layer comprising the step of depositing the conductive material on the adhesive layer to a thickness of between 1 and 5 microns. 14. A method as recited in claim 12, further comprising the step (g) of electrically coupling a second end of the conductive material left in said step (c) to a second die bond pad at the second location. 15. A method as recited in claim 8, further comprising the step (i) of mounting the semiconductor die on a substrate. 16. A method as recited in claim 15, further comprising the step (j) of electrically coupling the semiconductor die to the substrate. 17. A method as recited in claim 8, wherein said step (j) of electrically coupling the semiconductor die to the substrate comprises the step of electrically coupling a wire bond between the semiconductor die at the second location and the substrate. 18. A method as recited in claim 8, further comprising the step (k) of encapsulating the semiconductor die and at least portions of the substrate. 19. A method of fabricating a semiconductor package from a semiconductor wafer, the semiconductor package including a semiconductor die having a redistribution layer, the method comprising the steps of: (a) applying a tape assembly over at least portions of the semiconductor wafer, the tape assembly including a tape, and a film assembly including an adhesive layer and conductive material applied to the adhesive layer; (b) defining a pattern in the film assembly where the attractive force between the semiconductor wafer and the film assembly is increased; and (c) removing portions of the tape assembly, leaving behind adhered to the semiconductor wafer the pattern defined in the film assembly in said step (b). 20. A method as recited in claim 19, wherein said step (b) of defining a pattern in the film assembly comprises the step of heating an interface between the adhesive layer and the surface of the semiconductor wafer along the pattern. 21. A method as recited in claim 19, wherein said step (c) of removing portions of the tape assembly comprises the step of pulling away the portions of the tape assembly. 22. A method as recited in claim 19, wherein said step (c) of removing portions of the tape assembly comprises the step of severing the pattern of adhesive film defined in said step (b) from portions of the adhesive film around the pattern. 23. A method as recited in claim 19, further comprising the step (d) of singulating the semiconductor die from the semiconductor wafer after said step (c) of removing portions of the tape assembly. 24. A method as recited in claim 20, wherein said step of heating an interface between the adhesive layer and the surface of the semiconductor wafer comprises the step of heating the interface with a laser. 25. A method as recited in claim 23, further comprising the step (e) of mounting the semiconductor die on a substrate. 26. A method as recited in claim 25, further comprising the step (f) of electrically coupling the semiconductor die to the substrate. 27. A method as recited in claim 26, wherein said step (f) of electrically coupling the semiconductor die to the substrate comprises the step of electrically coupling a die bond pad on the semiconductor die and the substrate via a wire bond and the conductive material of the pattern defined in said step (b). 28. A method as recited in claim 26, further comprising the step (g) of encapsulating the semiconductor die and at least portions of the substrate. 29. A method of fabricating a semiconductor package from a semiconductor wafer, the semiconductor package including a semiconductor die having a redistribution layer, the method comprising the steps of: (a) forming a tape assembly by the steps of: (a1) depositing the conductive material on the adhesive layer to form a film assembly, and (a2) applying the film assembly onto a tape; (b) applying the tape assembly over at least portions of the semiconductor wafer with the film assembly in contact with a surface of the semiconductor wafer; and (c) defining a redistribution pattern on a surface of the semiconductor wafer by the steps of: (c1) lasing a pattern in the film assembly to augment the attractive force between the semiconductor wafer and the film assembly in the area of the pattern, and (c2) removing portions of the tape assembly, leaving behind adhered to the semiconductor wafer the pattern defined in the film assembly of said step (c1). 30. A method as recited in claim 29, said step (a1) of depositing the conductive material on the adhesive layer comprising the step of sputtering the conductive material on the adhesive layer. 31. A method as recited in claim 29, said step (a1) of depositing the conductive material on the adhesive layer comprising the step of depositing at least one of titanium and aluminum onto the adhesive layer. 32. A method as recited in claim 29, said step (a1) of depositing the conductive material on the adhesive layer comprising the step of depositing the conductive material on the adhesive layer to a thickness of between 1 and 5 microns. 33. A method as recited in claim 29, wherein said step (c2) of removing portions of the tape assembly comprises the step of pulling away the portions of the tape assembly. 34. A method as recited in claim 33, wherein said step (c1) of lasing a pattern in the film assembly to augment the attractive force between the semiconductor wafer and the film assembly in the area of the pattern comprises the step of augmenting the attractive force between the semiconductor wafer and the film assembly in the area of the pattern to exceed the attractive force between the film assembly and the tape in the area of the pattern. 