The presently disclosed and claimed invention relates to a user personalized, wearable device that displays time along with other content in a highly customizable manner. Device personalization by the user may include 1) The ability of the user to set the device to display content, including the time, based on user-defined inputs such as time-of-day, day-of-the-year, (individual) location, special events, the seasons, and holidays; 2) The ability to display in full color various media including audio, video, animation, text, and still photographs and images; 3) The ability of the user to create and utilize his own content for displaying time; 4) Using new and unique symbolic and other representations of time; 5) Software that allows the user to select, design and change the content displayed on the device, including how the time is interlaced with the content; 6) The ability to display content not directly related to time when the user selects this option; 7) The ability to connect to a database where a supply of new content is stored; and 8) the ability to adjust all of the administrative and system settings of the device.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a wrist watch comprising; a strap that is sized and shaped to be disposable about the wrist of a user; a case connected to the strap; at least one display supported by the case, and selectively displaying text, video, pictures, and animation; a processor supported by the case, for storing a plurality of content images indicative of different thematic representations of time and dials and for providing signals to the display to cause the display to visually represent the time and dials based upon the thematic representation set forth in the content images; means for determining the location of the wrist watch and providing data to the processor indicative of the location of the wrist watch, wherein the processor is adapted to determine a time of sunset and a time of sunrise based on the location of the wrist watch, wherein the processor is adapted to automatically change the thematic representation of time displayed on the wrist watch based on the location of the user, and wherein the processor is further adapted to automatically change the thematic representation of time displayed on the wrist watch at the time of sunset and at the time of sunrise; means for determining ambient light, wherein the processor automatically adjusts a brightness of the display in response to changes in ambient light; a user interface, supported by the case and communicating with the processor, the user interface has a user interface activator that upon actuation, provides at least one user command to the processor to cause the processor to retrieve one of the content images and to output signals to the display to cause the display to visually represent the time and dials based upon the thematic representation of the content image wherein the user interface enables user-customization of the content images and dials by transmitting user commands to the processor; a power storage component supported by the case and supplying power to the processor, user interface, and the display; and an external computer detached from the wrist watch, the external computer providing content images indicative of the thematic representation of the time and dials to be stored by the processor. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor has administrative settings and receives user commands to customize the administrative settings. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor modifies the manner in which the content image is provided to the display via user command. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the external computer modifies the manner in which the content image is provided to the processor based on user command. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a charging pad including a circuit board and connector for a power wall brick, the charging pad supplying power to the power storage component when the wrist watch is disconnected from the wrist of the user. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the charging pad supplies power to the power storage component through inductive coupling. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a sensor system supported by the case and controlling the power supplied by the power storage component to the display, such that selective movement of the wrist watch adjusts power supplied to the display. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor stores an electronic engraved message. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the electronic engraved message is programmed using user-personal content. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the electronic engraved message is accessible via a single touch button on the user interface. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the external computer modifies the manner in which content images and dials are visually represented. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor provides administrative settings customized via the external computer. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the content images are user-personal content images. 