An imaging positioning system having a robotically positioned support structure is provided. By utilizing a robotic arm, imaging along multiple planes within a patient treatment room without having to move the patient is provided. Such a configuration allows multiple axis x-ray imaging, cone beam CT acquisitions having a dynamic field of view, and PET imaging within the treatment room. Rotation of the imaging panel on the support structure allows the imaging system to simulate a gantry rotation when a fixed beam is used for treatment. Beam line x-ray imaging is also provided by tilting the imaging panel or by moving the support structure on which the x-ray source is positioned. Laser distance scanning for collision avoidance and force torque sensing movement enhance the safety thereof. The support structure may be in the form of a ring along which the imaging components may move.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An imaging positioning system, comprising: a support structure; an imaging device positioned on the support structure; a robotic arm coupled to the support structure at a coupling between the support structure and the robotic arm, the robotic arm operative to move the support structure along multiple rotational axes and at least one linear axis; wherein the orientation of the imaging device relative to the coupling is adjustable; wherein the position of the coupling is adjustable relative to support structure, thereby allowing adjustability of the orientation of the imaging device relative to the coupling; and wherein the coupling includes a coupling plate that is moveable along and relative to the support structure. 2. The imaging positing system of claim 1, wherein the imaging device is moveable along the support structure, thereby allowing adjustability of the orientation of the imaging device relative to the coupling. 3. The imaging positioning system of claim 2, wherein the support structure is a ring structure formed by at least two segments that pivot relative to one another to make a continuous ring in a first pivoted state and to break the continuous ring in a second pivoted state forming an opening between the two segments in the second pivoted state. 4. The imagining positioning system of claim 2, wherein the support structure is a ring structure and the imaging device is movable relative to the ring structure about the entire circumference defined by the ring structure. 5. The imaging device of claim 2, wherein the position of the coupling is adjustable relative to the support structure. 6. The imaging device of claim 1, wherein the imaging device includes two separate imaging components, each component operatively mounted to the support structure, the two imaging components are pivotable relative to each other. 7. The imaging device of claim 6, wherein the support structure is segmented into two portions that are pivotally connected to one another for relative angular movement therebetween, one component is operatively mounted to one of the portions and the other one of the components being operatively mounted to the other one of the portions, the two components pivotable relative to each other via the pivotal connection between the two support structure segments. 8. The imaging device of claim 7, wherein the support structure has a concave profile open on one side for receipt of a patient therethrough for positioning the patient between the two imaging components. 9. The imaging device of claim 6, wherein at least one of the two imaging components is pivotally mounted to the support structure such that pivotally mounted imaging component can be pivoted out of alignment with the other one of the imaging components without adjusting an orientation or a configuration of the support structure. 10. The imaging device of claim 6, wherein the coupling between the support structure and the robotic arm is positioned closer to one of the imaging components than the other one of the imaging components. 11. The imaging device of claim 1, further including a force torque sensor and the robotic arm is operably configured such that positioning of the support structure is controllable by pulling on the support structure and is not autonomously controlled by the robotic arm. 12. The imaging device of claim 1, further including a laser distance tracking device, the laser distance tracking device configured to sweep the volume defined by the support structure and configured to sense the presence of any objects within the volume defined by the support structure. 13. The imaging device of claim 12, wherein the laser distance tracking device further configured to determine an envelope defined by a patient positioned within the volume defined by the support structure, the imaging device being configured to prevent any portion of the imaging device from entering the envelope defined by the patient. 14. The imaging device of claim 13, wherein the laser distance tracking device includes a laser scanner and a control including a patient positioning system collision avoidance algorithm that takes the data from the laser scanner and ensure that no object of the imaging device is allowed to enter the envelope defined by the patient. 15. An imaging positioning system, comprising: a support structure; an imaging device positioned on the support structure; and a robotic arm coupled to the support structure at a coupling between the support structure and the robotic arm, the robotic arm operative to move the support structure along multiple rotational axes and at least one linear axis; wherein the coupling between the support structure and the robotic arm is a uniform tool changing coupling such that the support structure can be automatically released from and coupled to the robotic arm. 16. The imaging positioning system of claim 15, further comprising an auxiliary support structure independent from the support structure, the auxiliary support structure and robotic arm forming an auxiliary coupling therebetween, the auxiliary coupling between the auxiliary support structure and the robot arm is a uniform tool changing coupling such that the auxiliary support structure can be automatically released from and coupled to the robotic arm using the same coupling structure that robotic arm uses to form the coupling with the support structure. 