In one embodiment of the invention, an apparatus is provided including a linkage and a balancing mechanism coupled to the linkage around a pivotal joint. The linkage couples to a support structure at a first end and support a weight applied to a second end. The balancing mechanism counter balances the weight applied to the second end of the linkage. As the linkage is deformed to vertically adjust the height of the weight with a different moment arm length, the balancing mechanism varies a cable path length to modify the compression of a spring and a tension in a cable to adjust the amount of counter balance force applied to the linkage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A set-up arm to support a robotic arm, the set-up arm comprising: a first set-up joint to couple to a support structure; a second set-up joint spaced apart from the first set-up joint, the second set-up joint to couple to a robotic arm to provide support thereto; a counter balancing link pivotally coupled to the first set-up joint at a first pivot point and to the second set-up joint at a second pivot point, the counter balancing link to balance out the force of load at the second set-up joint, the counter balancing link including a hollow housing having a cylindrical cavity with a first opening at a first end; a spring in the cylindrical cavity having a first end coupled to the hollow housing, the spring to provide a spring force to balance out the force of load at the second set-up joint; a plurality of pulleys including a first pulley rotatably coupled to the first set-up joint at the first pivot point between the counter balancing link and the first set-up joint, and one of a pair of pulleys rotatably coupled to the first setup joint and another one of the pair of pulleys rotatably coupled to the hollow housing; at least one cable under tension coupled to the setup arm and wrapped over the plurality of pulleys to couple to a second end of the spring; and wherein a linear distance between the pair of pulleys varies to change a cable path length in response to the pivoting of the counter balancing link with respect to the first set-up joint to modify the spring force and the tension in the at least one cable under tension to counter balance changes in moment and mechanical advantage. 2. A set-up arm to support a robotic arm, the set-up arm comprising: a first set-up joint to couple to a support structure, the first set-up joint having a first pulley rotatably coupled thereto; a second set-up joint spaced apart from the first set-up joint, the second set-up joint to couple to a robotic arm to provide support thereto; a counter balancing link pivotally coupled to the first set-up joint at a first pivot point and to the second set-up joint at a second pivot point, the counter balancing link to balance out the force of load at the second set-up joint, the counter balancing link including a hollow housing having a cylindrical cavity with a first opening at a first end a second pulley rotatably coupled to the hollow housing, a first compression spring in the cylindrical cavity having a first end coupled to the housing, the first compression spring under compression to balance out the force of load at the second set-up joint; and a third pulley having a center point at the first pivot point between the counter balancing link and the first set-up joint, wherein center point positions of the first, second, and third pulleys are corners of a triangle, wherein the triangle formed by the center point positions of the first, second and third pulleys is adjustable in response to pivoting of the counter balancing link with respect to the first set-up joint to modify the tension in the at least one cable under tension; at least one cable under tension wrapped over the second pulley into the cylindrical cavity and coupled to a second end of the first compression spring, the at least one cable under tension further wrapped over the first and third pulleys and coupled to the set-up arm; and wherein a sum of the wrap angles of the at least one cable under tension wrapped around the first, second and third pulleys is substantially constant in response to the pivoting of the counter balancing link with respect to the first set-up joint; and a linear distance between the first pulley and the second pulley varies in response to the pivoting of the counter balancing link with respect to the first set-up joint to modify the tension in the at least one cable under tension to balance out changes in moment and mechanical advantage at the pivot point between the counter balancing link and the first set-up joint due to the pivoting of the counter balancing link and the load at the second set-up joint. 3. The set-up arm of claim 1, wherein the at least one cable under tension is coupled to the set up arm by coupling to the counter balancing link, the first set-up joint, or the second set-up joint. 4. The set-up arm of claim 1, wherein the at least one cable under tension is coupled to the set up arm by wrapping over a post coupled to the counter balancing link, the at least one cable under tension is twice wrapped over the plurality of pulleys, and the at least one cable under tension has a pair of ends coupled to the second end of the first compression spring. 5. The set-up arm of claim 1, wherein the at least one cable under tension is a plurality of cables under tension each of which has a substantially similar tension to share the total tension generated by the compression of the first compression spring. 6. The set-up arm of claim 1, wherein the hollow housing has a first diagonally cut end and a second diagonally cut end opposite the first diagonally cut end, the first diagonally cut end and the second diagonally cut end to increase movement of the counter balancing link about the first set-up joint and the second set-up joint, respectively. 7. The set-up arm of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of pulleys has a substantially similar diameter. 8. A set-up arm to support a robotic arm, the set-up arm comprising: a first set-up joint to couple to a support structure, the first set-up joint having a first pulley rotatably coupled thereto; a second set-up joint spaced apart from the first set-up joint, the second set-up joint to couple to a robotic arm to provide support thereto; a counter balancing link pivotally coupled to the first set-up joint at a first pivot point and to the second set-up joint at a second pivot point, the counter balancing link to balance out the force of load at the second set-up joint, the counter balancing link including a hollow housing having a cylindrical cavity with a first opening at a first end, a second pulley rotatably coupled to the hollow housing, a first compression spring in the cylindrical cavity having a first end coupled to the housing, the first compression spring under compression to balance out the force of load at the second set-up joint; and a third pulley having a center point at the first pivot point between the counter balancing link and the first set-up joint, wherein center point positions of the first, second, and third pulleys are corners of a triangle; at least one cable under tension wrapped over the second pulley into the cylindrical cavity and coupled to a second end of the first compression spring, the at least one cable under tension further wrapped over the first and third pulleys and coupled to the set-up arm; and wherein each of the first, second, and third pulleys have a substantially similar diameter, a first linear distance between the first pulley and the second pulley to vary in response to a pivoting of the counter balancing link at the first pivot point with the first set-up joint; a second linear distance between the first pulley and the third pulley to remain constant in response to the pivoting of the counter balancing link at the first pivot point with the first set-up joint; and a third linear distance between the second pulley and the third pulley to remain constant in response to the pivoting of the counter balancing link at the first pivot point with the first set-up joint. 9. A set-up arm to support a robotic arm, the set-up arm comprising: a first set-up joint to couple to a support structure, the first set-up joint having a first pulley rotatably coupled thereto; a second set-up joint spaced apart from the first set-up joint, the second set-up joint to couple to a robotic arm to provide support thereto; a counter balancing link pivotally coupled to the first set-up joint at a first pivot point and to the second set-up joint at a second pivot point, the counter balancing link to balance out the force of load at the second set-up joint, the counter balancing link including a hollow housing having a cylindrical cavity with a first opening at a first end a plug coupled into the first opening to close the cylindrical cavity at the first end to increase stiffness of the counter balancing link, a second pulley rotatable coupled to the hollow housing, a first compression spring in the cylindrical cavity having a first end coupled to the housing, the first compression spring under compression to balance out the force of load at the second set-up joint; and a third pulley having a center point at the first pivot point between the counter balancing link and the first set-up joint, wherein center point positions of the first, second, and third pulleys are corners of a triangle; and at least one cable under tension wrapped over the second pulley into the cylindrical cavity and coupled to a second end of the first compression spring, the at least one cable under tension further wrapped over the first and third pulleys and coupled to the set-up arm. 10. The set-up arm of claim 9, further comprising: an idle link pivotally coupled to the first set-up joint at a third pivot point and to the second set-up joint at a fourth pivot point substantially parallel to the counter balancing link, the idle link to increase the stiffness in the set-up arm between the first set-up joint and the second set-up joint and the load carrying capability of the set-up arm. 11. The set-up arm of claim 10, wherein the first set-up joint has a first bracket coupled to the idle and counter balancing links at the first and third pivot points respectively, the first bracket to allow the first set-up joint to rotate about a first axis; and the second set-up joint has a second bracket coupled to the idle and counter balancing links at the second and fourth pivot points respectively, the second bracket to allow the second set-up joint to rotate about a second axis. 12. The set-up arm of claim 10, wherein the idle link and the counter balancing link are a parallel link, and the first and third pivot points and the second and fourth pivot points spaced apart by the housing of the idle link and the housing of the counter balancing link to increase the torsional stiffness of the parallel link. 13. The set-up arm of claim 12, wherein the counter balancing link further includes a clamping mechanism to couple the at least one cable under tension to the second end of the first compression spring. 14. The set-up arm of claim 13, wherein the clamping mechanism includes a ribbonizer in a center opening of the first compression spring and coaxial thereto, the ribbonizer having a pair of slots at one end, and a clamping block coupled into the pair of slots of the ribbonizer, the clamping block to couple the at least one cable under tension to the first compression spring. 15. The set-up arm of claim 14, wherein the clamping mechanism further includes a threaded sleeve around the ribbonizer coaxial with the compression spring, the threaded sleeve having an external thread, an end of the threaded sleeve coupled to a ridge of the ribbonizer, a nut having an internal thread threadingly engaged to the external thread of the threaded sleeve, the pre-tensioning nut to adjust the tension in the at least one cable under tension, and a mating ring over the threaded sleeve, the mating ring to receive a force from the nut and couple it to the first compression spring to adjust the tension in the at least one cable under tension. 16. The set-up arm of claim 15, wherein the clamping mechanism further includes a thrust bearing over the threaded sleeve and coupled between the nut and the mating ring, the thrust bearing to receive a force from the nut and couple it to the mating ring. 17. The set-up arm of claim 16, wherein the clamping mechanism further includes an anti-rotation plate having an opening over the clamping block and coupled to the ribbonizer, the anti-rotation plate having one or more protrusions coupled into one or more recesses in the cavity to deter the ribbonizer, the threaded sleeve and the clamping block from rotating as the nut is turned. 18. The set-up arm of claim 14, wherein the clamping mechanism further includes one or more cable tensioners coupled between at least one end of the at least one cable under tension and the clamping block, the one or more cable tensioners to pre-tension the at least one cable under tension, each of the one or more cable tensioners including a second compression spring over the at least one cable under tension, and a cable terminator coupled to the at least one cable under tension near an end thereof. 19. The set-up arm of claim 14, wherein the at least one cable under tension is a plurality of cables under tension, and the clamping block includes a plurality of clamping plates stacked together, each of the plurality of clamping plates having a first opening, a second opening spaced apart from the first opening, and at least one groove to capture at least one cable segment of the plurality of cables under tension; a first fastener inserted into the first opening in each of the plurality of clamping plates; and a second fastener inserted into the second opening in each of the plurality of clamping plates; and wherein the first fastener and the second fastener squeeze the plurality of clamping plates together around the cable segments to clamp thereon with a substantial force. 20. The set-up arm of claim 19, wherein the plurality of clamping plates includes a first outer clamping plate having the at least one groove in a top side; one or more interior clamping plates over the first outer clamping plate, each of the one or more interior clamping plates having at least one first groove in a top side and at least one second groove in a bottom side, one interior clamping plate having its at least one second groove aligned over the at least one groove in the first outer clamping plate; and a second outer clamping plate having the at least one groove in a bottom side, the at least one groove in the second outer clamping plate aligned over the at least one first groove in one interior clamping plate. 21. The set-up arm of claim 20, wherein the plurality of cables have a substantially similar diameter, and a depth of each of the at least one groove in the plurality of clamping plates is less than half the diameter of the plurality of cables. 22. The set-up arm of claim 20, wherein the first and second openings in the first outer clamping plate are threaded to threadingly couple to the first and second fasteners respectively to squeeze the plurality of clamping plates together around the cable segments to clamp thereon with a substantial force. 23. The set-up arm of claim 20, wherein the first opening in the first outer clamping plate is threaded to threadingly couple to the first fastener, the second opening in the second outer clamping plate is threaded to threadingly couple to the second fastener, and wherein the first fastener and the second fastener from opposite sides squeeze the plurality of clamping plates together around the cable segments to clamp thereon with a substantial force. 24. The set-up arm of claim 19, wherein the plurality of cables under tension are routed substantially in parallel together, and the at least one groove in each of the plurality of clamping plates is a pair of grooves substantially in parallel to capture cable segments of the plurality of cables under tension. 25. The set-up arm of claim 1, wherein a first wrap angle of the at least one cable under tension around the first pulley to decrease to pay out cable and slightly compensate for an increase in the linear distance between the pair of pulleys in response to a first pivoting of the counter balancing link with respect to the first set-up joint; and the first wrap angle to increase to pull in cable and slightly compensate for a decrease in the linear distance between the pair of pulleys in response to a second pivoting of the counter balancing link with respect to the first set-up joint in a direction opposite that of the first pivoting. 26. The set-up arm of claim 1, wherein a total cable length of the at least one cable under tension is constant while the cable path length varies to modify the spring force and the tension in the at least one cable under tension in response to the pivoting of the counter balancing link with respect to the first set-up joint. 27. The set-up arm of claim 26, wherein a sum total of wrap angles of the at least one cable under tension around the plurality of pulleys is conserved to remain constant in response to the pivoting of the counter balancing link with respect to the first set-up joint. 28. The set-up arm of claim 1, further comprising: an idle link pivotally coupled to the first set-up joint at a third pivot point and to the second set-up joint at a fourth pivot point parallel to the counter balancing link. 29. The set-up arm of claim 2, further comprising: an idle link pivotally coupled to the first set-up joint at a third pivot point and to the second set-up joint at a fourth pivot point parallel to the counter balancing link. 30. The set-up arm of claim 6, further comprising: an idle link pivotally coupled to the first set-up joint at a third pivot point and to the second set-up joint at a fourth pivot point parallel to the counter balancing link. 31. The set-up arm of claim 6, wherein the at least one cable under tension is further coupled to the set up arm. 32. The set-up arm of claim 6, wherein the at least one cable under tension is a plurality of cables under tension each of which has a substantially similar tension to share the total tension generated therein by the spring. 33. The set-up arm of claim 8, further comprising: an idle link pivotally coupled to the first set-up joint at a third pivot point and to the second set-up joint at a fourth pivot point parallel to the counter balancing link. 