A novel device for climbing inside corners, outside corners, and a variety of surfaces. The technology presented herein relies on high friction materials, suction devices, adhesive materials, pneumatic devices, etc. Specifically, embodiments of the present invention are designed to clamp onto inside or outside corners such that the devices weight, and an optional load, can be supported. Further embodiments allow the device to climb up, down, and across corners. Moreover, embodiments that can scale flat, rough, or jagged surfaces are also disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. A corner climber comprising: a first member comprising a first cavity, a first open end, and a first closed; a second member comprising a second cavity, a second open end, and a second closed end, wherein said second member is interconnected with said first member such that said first member cooperates with said second member to provide a first clamping force; a control device for activating said first member and said second member to provide said first clamping force; a first friction pad coupled to said first member at said first closed end, wherein said first friction pad engages a first surface such that said first friction pad is substantially flush with said first surface; a second friction pad coupled to said second member, wherein said second friction pad engages a second surface such that said second friction pad is substantially flush with said second surface; means for retracting said first member towards said second member when said control device is not activated; wherein said control device comprises a plurality of first and second pulley assemblies coupled with a pulley line for controlling movement of said first and said second members; wherein said second member partially resides within said first cavity of said first member to provide a first clamping force; wherein said first member and said second member each reside on a common longitudinal axis; wherein said first friction pad is diametrically opposed to said second friction pad and each of said first friction pad and said second friction pad reside on said common longitudinal axis; wherein said first and said second surfaces are at an angle of at least 90 degrees with respect to each other; wherein said first and said second friction pads comprise a high friction material having a coefficient of friction greater than one; wherein said first clamping force and said high friction material cause said first friction pad and said second friction pad to securely engage said first and said second surfaces; wherein said control device maintains the required clamping force necessary for said corner climber to continue securely engaging said surfaces; wherein said first friction pad and said second friction pad are temporarily engaged to said first surface and said second surface; wherein said first friction pad and said second friction pad are removable from said first surface and said second surface; and wherein said first friction pad and said second friction pad do not mar said first surface and said second surface. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads comprises at least one layer. 3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said layer is removable. 4. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said layer is removable through application of fluid pressure thereunder. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads is boomerang shaped. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads comprises at least one bladder. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said bladder contains fluid. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said fluid is selected from the group consisting of air, gel, water, gas, foam and phase change material. 9. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said bladder is compartmentalized. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads rotates along a plane with respect to one of said members. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads swivels in all directions with respect to one of said members. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads comprises a material selected from the group consisting of polyester composite PVC compound, a thermoplastic elastomer, rubber and cyanoacrilate. 13. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads comprises a material having a coefficient of friction greater than or approximately equal to the tangent of one half of an angle between said first and said second surfaces. 14. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads comprises a removably adhesive material. 15. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads is pliable. 16. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads comprises means for providing suction. 17. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said means for providing suction is a vacuum motor. 18. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said means for providing suction is a vortex attractor. 19. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least a third friction pad is coupled to at least one of said members. 20. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first member and said second member are telescoping tubes. 21. An apparatus according to claim 20, wherein overextension of said telescoping tubes is prevented by at least one restraining member. 22. An apparatus according to claim 21, wherein said restraining member is selected from the group consisting of a detent, a cord, a rope and a spring. 23. An apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said telescoping tubes comprise at least one spring positioned therein. 24. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said members are connected by a joint. 25. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said members comprises a plurality of telescoping tubes. 26. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus stabilizes a standing structure. 27. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said control device comprises at least one pulley system, said pulley system comprising: at least one roller; and at least one cable cooperating with said at least one roller, said cable attached to at least one of said members; and wherein tension applied to said cable is transferred to said members to provide said first clamping force. 28. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first and said second surfaces are at an angle greater than or equal to 90 degrees with respect to each other. 29. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus further comprises a means for repositioning said members upon release of said first clamping force such that said members move relative to said first and said second surfaces. 30. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for repositioning comprises a plurality of telescoping tubes. 31. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for repositioning stores potential energy upon application of gravity to said apparatus, wherein the release of said potential energy causes said moving of said members. 32. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for repositioning comprises a swinging weight. 33. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads is flat. 34. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads is concave. 35. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads is convex. 36. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads is coupled to at least one of said members via a pin. 37. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads is coupled to at least one of said members via a screw. 