A method of facilitating communications using a product item is disclosed. The product item includes a surface having disposed thereon or therein coded data. In one implementation sensing data is received from a user device. The sensing data resulted from sensing the coded data. A determination is made that the sensing data is indicative of a communication request associated with a provider. A provider address is provided to the user device. A message and a destination address sent from the user device to the provider address is then received. Finally, the message is forwarded to the destination address.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of facilitating a communication using a product item, the product item including a surface having disposed thereon or therein coded data portions, each coded data portion encoding a product item identifier and position information identifying the position of the coded data portion on the surface of the product item, the method including the steps of: receiving by a computer system sensing data from a user device, the sensing data resulting from sensing one of the coded data portions and includes the product item identifier and position information of the sensed coded data portion; retrieving by the computer system from a database and using the product item identifier, a description of coded data portions on the surface; mapping by the computer system, using the description, the position information to a communication request; determining by the computer system a server address of a server using the product item identifier; receiving by the computer system from the user device a message and a destination address; sending by the computer system the message and destination address to the server address; and forwarding, by the server, the message to the destination address. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further includes the steps of: generating, using the product item identifier, product item information; and providing the product item information as part of the message. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the communication request is for sending a free message, the method further including the step of embedding advertising material within the message prior to forwarding the message. 4. A method of facilitating a communication using a product item, the product item including a surface having disposed thereon or therein coded data portions, each coded data portion encoding a product item identifier and position information identifying the position of the coded data portion on the surface of the product item, the method including the steps of: receiving by a computer system sensing data, the sensing data resulting from sensing the coded data portions and includes the product item identifier and position information of the sensed coded data portions; retrieving by the computer system from a database and using the product item identifier, a description of coded data portions on the surface; mapping by the computer system, using the description, the position information to a communication request; determining by the computer system a server address of a server using the product item identifier; extracting by the computer system from the sensing data a message and a destination address; sending by the computer system to the server address at least the message and the destination address; and forwarding, by the server, the message to the destination address. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the method further includes the steps of: generating, using the product item identifier, product item information; and providing the product item information as part of the message. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the communication request is for sending a free message, the method further including the step of embedding advertising material within the message prior to forwarding the message. 7. The method of any one of claims 1 and 4, wherein the product item identifier uniquely identifies the product item. 8. The method of any one of claims 1 and 4, wherein the coded data portions are redundantly encoded. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the coded data portions are redundantly encoded using Reed-Solomon encoding. 10. The method of any one of claims 1 and 4, wherein the coded data portions are substantially invisible to the unaided eye. 11. The method of any one of claims 1 and 4, wherein the coded data portions are printed using infrared ink. 12. The method of claim 4, wherein at least one of the message and the destination is extracted from the sensing data through evaluating movement with respect to the surface of a sensing device used to sense the coded data portions. 