A valve stem installation system (10) includes a conveyor (24) for moving wheel (14). A controller (60) is adaptable for segmenting the wheel (14) into a plurality of sections (S1-S11). A detector (70) identifies and signals a general location of the aperture (12) to the controller (60) to identify a target section (S11) transmitted to the controller (60) by a first signal. A robotic manipulator (110, 112) is operably connected to the controller (60) and adaptable for inserting the valve stem into the aperture (12). A sensor (153) is connected to the robotic manipulator (110, 112) and is adaptable for visually identifying the target section (S11) and transmitting the general location of the aperture (12) within the target section by a second signal. The controller (60) generates a target signal transmitted to the robotic manipulator (110, 112) to increase the speed and accuracy of mating the valve stem into the aperture (12) in response to the target signal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for selectively mating a valve stem with a wheel rim having an aperture formed therein for receiving the valve stem, said system comprising: a controller for segmenting the wheel into a plurality of sections; a detector for identifying and signaling a general location of the aperture to said controller as said controller aligns the general location of the aperture with one of the sections thereby identifying a target section; a robotic manipulator operably connected to said controller for engaging and inserting the valve stem into the aperture; and a sensor of said robotic manipulator adaptable for visually identifying said target section for determining and transmitting to said controller the location of the aperture within said target section thereby adjusting movement and increasing the speed of said robotic manipulator for mating the valve stem into the aperture in response to a target signal transmitted to said robotic manipulator by said controller. 2. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said sensor is an optical sensor. 3. A system as set forth in claim 2 including an insertion tool connected to said robotic manipulator with said sensor connected to said insertion tool. 4. A system as set forth in claim 3 wherein said insertion tool is adaptable for selectively engaging at least two types of the valve stem with one of the types being a tire pressure monitoring device (the TPM) and interchangeably moving and inserting one of the valve stem and the TPM into the aperture in response to said target signal received by said robotic manipulator from said controller. 5. A system as set forth in claim 4 wherein said robotic manipulator is further defined by a pair of robots adjacent one and the other with each of said robots including a robot arm connected to a shoulder and multi-axially movable relative to one another and relative to the wheel rim. 6. A system as set forth in claim 5 wherein said insertion tool is further defined by a first inserting device and a second inserting device for engaging one of the TPM and the valve stem. 7. A system as set forth in claim 6 wherein said second inserting device includes a nut runner associated with and slidably movable relative to said second inserting device for assembling a nut with the TPM. 8. A system as set forth in claim 1 including a conveyance device for moving the wheel rims relative to said robotic manipulator. 9. A system as set forth in claim 8 wherein said conveyance device is further defined by a plurality of modules aligned with respect to one another along said conveyance device wherein each of said modules includes a stopping device for preventing the wheel rim from moving along said conveyance device, said stopping device having at least one pin movable between an extended position and a retracted position for preventing the wheel rim from moving along said conveyance device. 10. A system for selectively mating one of a valve stem and a pressure monitoring device (TPM) with a wheel rim having an aperture formed therein for receiving one of the valve stem and the TPM, said system comprising: a controller for segmenting the wheel into a plurality of sections; a detector for identifying and signaling a general location of the aperture to said controller as said controller aligns the general location of the aperture with one of the sections thereby identifying a target section transmitted to said controller by a first signal; a robotic manipulator operably connected to said controller and adaptable for selectively engaging and inserting the valve stem and the TPM into the aperture; a sensor connected to said robotic manipulator and adaptable for visually identifying said target section and transmitting the general location of the aperture within said target section by a second signal; and said controller adaptable for integrating said first signal and said second signal for generating a target signal transmitted to said robotic manipulator thereby adjusting movement of said robotic manipulator relative said target section for increasing the speed and accuracy of mating one of the TPM and the valve stem into the aperture in response to said target signal. 11. A system as set forth in claim 10 including a comparative software of said controller for integrating said first and second signals. 12. A system as set forth in claim 11 wherein said sensor is an optical sensor. 13. A system as set forth in claim 12 including an insertion tool connected to said robotic manipulator with said sensor connected to said insertion tool. 14. A system as set forth in claim 13 wherein said insertion tool is adaptable for selectively engaging and interchangeably moving and inserting one of the valve stem and the TPM into the aperture in response to said target signal received by said robotic manipulator from said controller. 15. A system as set forth in claim 14 wherein said robotic manipulator is further defined by a pair of robots adjacent one and the other with each of said robots including a robot arm connected to a shoulder and multi-axially movable relative to one another and relative to the wheel rim. 16. A system as set forth in claim 15 wherein said insertion tool is further defined by a first inserting device and a second inserting device for selectively engaging one of the TPM and the valve stem. 17. A system as set forth in claim 16 wherein said second inserting device includes a nut runner associated with and slidably movable relative to said second inserting device for assembling a nut with the TPM. 18. A system as set forth in claim 10 including a conveyance device for moving the wheel rims relative to said robotic manipulator. 