A device and method for simultaneously manipulating multiple data storage cartridges or other storage elements in a storage library. The device housing includes an opening for receiving data storage cartridges. A gripping mechanism extends from the opening. The gripping mechanism is adapted to grip a data storage cartridge to be retrieved and to urge the data storage cartridge into the opening. One or more transport mechanisms are attached to one or more inner walls of the housing. The transport mechanisms are adapted such that once a data storage cartridge moves into the opening, the transport mechanisms will urge the data storage cartridge further into the opening until the data storage cartridge is held within the housing. The data storage cartridge can be moved further into the housing such that the gripping mechanism is free to collect additional cartridges.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for manipulating data storage cartridges, the device comprising: a housing sized and dimensioned to hold a plurality of data storage cartridges, said housing adapted to be operable with a robot, said robot adapted to move the housing to a plurality of locations within a library of data storage cartridges such that an opening in the housing may be aligned with the data storage cartridges in the library; a gripping mechanism extending from the opening in the housing, said gripping mechanism operably attached to the housing and adapted to grip a first data storage cartridge disposed outside the housing, wherein the gripping mechanism is further adapted to pull the first data storage cartridge into the opening; and a first transport mechanism disposed within and operably connected to the housing, said first transport mechanism adapted to pull the first data storage cartridge away from the gripping mechanism and further into the housing through the opening as the first data storage cartridge comes into contact with the first transport mechanism. 2. The device of claim 1 further comprising: a second transport mechanism disposed within and operably connected to the housing, said second transport mechanism disposed opposite the first transport mechanism, said second transport mechanism adapted to assist the first transport mechanism to pull the first data storage cartridge further into the housing through the opening. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein the first transport mechanism is disposed on a first side of the housing and the second transport mechanism is disposed on a second side of the housing, wherein the first side is opposite the second side and wherein the device further comprises: a third transport mechanism disposed within and operably connected to the housing, said third transport mechanism disposed on the first side adjacent to the first transport mechanism such that as the first data storage cartridge is pulled further into the housing by the first transport mechanism, the third transport mechanism will pull the first data storage cartridge still further into the housing as the first data storage cartridge comes into contact with the third transport mechanism; and a fourth transport mechanism disposed within and operably connected to the housing, said fourth transport mechanism disposed on the second side opposite the third transport mechanism. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein the gripping mechanism further comprises: a first rail operably connected to a first inner wall of the housing, wherein the first rail is operable to swing a predetermined distance along a first axis of the housing; a second rail operably connected to a second inner wall of the housing and spaced away from the first rail, wherein the second rail is operable to swing the predetermined distance along the first axis of the housing, and wherein the rails move closer together as the rails swing outwardly with respect to the housing; a first tong operably connected to the first rail, said first tong operable to move along the first rail; and a second tong operably connected to the second rail, said second tong operable to move along the second rail, wherein the first data storage cartridge may be gripped between the first tong and second tong when the first and second tongs extend from the opening in the housing. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein the rails move away from each other as the rails swing inwardly with respect to the housing. 6. The device of claim 1 further comprising: a second transport mechanism operably connected to an inner wall of the housing and positioned adjacent the first transport mechanism, said second transport mechanism operable to contact the first data storage cartridge and pull the first data storage cartridge further within the housing. 7. The device of claim 6 further comprising: a third transport mechanism disposed in the housing opposite the second transport mechanism, said third transport mechanism operable to contact the first data storage cartridge and configured to assist the second transport mechanism to pull the first data storage cartridge further within the housing. 8. The device of claim 1 wherein the housing is further sized and dimensioned to hold a second data storage cartridge, such that the first data storage cartridge and the second data storage cartridge may be held in a line along a first axis of the housing. 9. The device of claim 1 wherein the housing includes a first axis along which the first data storage cartridge may be retrieved through the opening and wherein the housing is further sized and dimensioned to hold a second data storage cartridge such that the first data storage cartridge and the second data storage cartridge may be held in a stack along a second axis of the housing. 10. The device of claim 1 further comprising the first data storage cartridge, said first data storage cartridge disposed within the housing. 11. The device of claim 1 further comprising the robot, said robot operably connected to the housing. 12. The device of claim 1 wherein the gripping mechanism is configured to reciprocate back and forth with respect to the housing. 13. The device of claim 1 wherein the first transport mechanism includes a belt and multiple rollers. 14. The device of claim 1 wherein the housing is configured to receive a second data storage cartridge through the opening while the first data storage cartridge is held in the housing, such that the first data storage cartridge and the second data storage cartridge are held in a line along a first axis of the housing that extends through the opening. 15. A device for manipulating data storage cartridges, the device being operable with a robot that is configured to move the device within a library of data storage cartridges such that the device may be aligned with the data storage cartridges in the library, the device comprising: a housing sized and dimensioned to hold multiple data storage cartridges, the housing having an opening for receiving the data storage cartridges; a gripping mechanism that is extendable from the opening in the housing and is movable back and forth with respect to the housing, the gripping mechanism being operably attached to the housing and adapted to grip a first data storage cartridge disposed outside the housing, wherein the gripping mechanism is further adapted to pull the first data storage cartridge into the opening; a first transport mechanism disposed within and operably connected to the housing, the first transport mechanism being adapted to pull the first data storage cartridge away from the gripping mechanism and further into the housing through the opening as the first data storage cartridge comes into contact with the first transport mechanism; and a second transport mechanism disposed within and operably connected to the housing, the second transport mechanism being disposed adjacent the first transport mechanism and configured to pull the first data storage cartridge away from the first transport mechanism and still further into the housing as the first data storage cartridge comes into contact with the second transport mechanism; wherein the housing is configured to receive a second data storage cartridge through the opening while the first data storage cartridge is held in the housing, such that the first data storage cartridge and the second data storage cartridge are held in a line along a first axis of the housing that extends through the opening. 16. The device of claim 15 wherein the gripping mechanism comprises: a first rail operably connected to a first inner wall of the housing, wherein the first rail is operable to swing a predetermined distance along the first axis of the housing; a second rail operably connected to a second inner wall of the housing and spaced away from the first rail, wherein the second rail is operable to swing the predetermined distance along the first axis of the housing; a first tong operably connected to the first rail, the first tong being operable to move along the first rail; and a second tong operably connected to the second rail, the second tong being operable to move along the second rail; wherein the rails move closer together as the rails swing outwardly with respect to the housing, and wherein the first data storage cartridge may be gripped between the first tong and the second tong when the first and second tongs extend from the opening in the housing. 17. The device of claim 16 wherein the rails move away from each other as the rails swing inwardly with respect to the housing. 18. The device of claim 15 wherein the first transport mechanism includes a belt and multiple rollers. 19. The device of claim 18 wherein the second transport mechanism includes a belt and multiple rollers. 20. The device of claim 15 further comprising third and fourth transport mechanisms operably connected to the housing, the third transport mechanism being disposed opposite the first transport mechanism, and the fourth transport mechanism being disposed opposite the second transport mechanism, wherein each transport mechanism includes a belt that is configured to contact the first data storage cartridge. 