A radiation treatment system (100) for accurately delivering radiation to a targeted site within a cancer patient (108) that includes a modular patient support system and a patient positioner (114). The modular patient support system includes a modularly expandable patient pod (200) and at least one immobilization device, such as, for example, a rigid moldable foam cradle (350). The patient pod (200) includes a generally hemi-cylindrical support shell (212) that extends longitudinally between proximal edge (214) and distal edge (216), and transversely between two lateral edges (222, 224). In one embodiment, the lateral edges (222, 224) are tapered to minimize edge effects that result when radiation beams traverse the lateral edges (222, 224).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for attachment to a hemi-cylindrical patient support shell configured to support a patient undergoing radiation therapy, the apparatus comprising: a hemi cylindrical support shell attachment configured for attachment to a proximal end of the support shell so as to be aligned with the support shell and extend longitudinally therefrom, wherein the support shell attachment comprises an extension track engaging end having an upper lip and a lower lip, wherein a space between the upper lip and the lower lip is approximately equal to a distance between an inner diameter and an outer diameter of an extension track. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the attachment comprises an end stop having a substantially planar wall extending substantially normal to a top transverse concave surface. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the attachment comprises a chamfered surface at a distal end of the attachment. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a foam cradle supported by the support shell, for securely holding a patient in position during treatment. 5. An apparatus for attachment to a patient support bed used by a patient undergoing radiation therapy, comprising: a support element for supporting at least a portion of a patient; and extension track engagement means positioned at a proximal end of the support element, the engagement means configured for engaging a patient support bed, wherein the extension track engagement means comprises an upper lip and a lower lip, wherein a distance between the upper lip and the lower lip of the extension track engagement means is approximately equal to a distance between an inner diameter and an outer diameter of an extension track of a hemi cylindrical patient support bed. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising an end stop attached to a distal end of the support element, the end stop comprising a substantially planar wall that extends upwards at an angle substantially normal to the support element. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising a substantially planar chamfered end stop. 8. A modular patient support system for efficiently securing a patient in a fixed position during radiation treatment and for repositioning the patient to the fixed position, the support system comprising: a modular patient pod, comprising: a longitudinally-extending support shell extending from a shell proximal edge through a shell longitudinal center section to a shell distal edge, a first upwardly-extending lateral edge, and a second upwardly-extending lateral edge, wherein at least one of the first and the second lateral edges further comprises a first tapered edge and a first longitudinally-extending rail, the first longitudinally-extending rail comprising a first rail inferior portion that is complementary to the shape of the first tapered edge and a first rail superior portion that is rounded, the first longitudinally-extending rail comprising a first low-density material, a proximal extension track connected to the shell proximal edge, and a distal extension track connected to the shell distal edge. 9. The support system of claim 8, wherein the first lateral edge further comprises a means for reducing edge effects associated with radiation beams that traverse the first lateral edge during radiation treatment. 10. The support system of claim 8, wherein the modular patient pod further comprises a positioner-pod connector attached to the shell bottom surface, and a first immobilization device. 11. A modular patient pod for providing cantilevered support of a patient undergoing radiation treatment pursuant to a treatment protocol, the pod comprising: a support shell extending from a shell proximal edge through a shell longitudinal center section to a shell distal edge, the support shell having a first upwardly-extending lateral edge, and a second upwardly-extending lateral edge, wherein at least one of the first and the second laterally extending lateral edges further comprises a first tapered edge and a first longitudinally-extending rail, the first longitudinally-extending rail comprising a first rail inferior portion that is complementary to the shape of the first tapered edge and a first rail superior portion that is rounded, the first longitudinally-extending rail comprising a first low-density material; a proximal extension track connected to the shell proximal edge; a distal extension track connected to the shell distal edge. 12. The modular patient pod of claim 11, wherein the first lateral edge further comprises a means for reducing edge effects associated with radiation beams that traverse the first lateral edge during radiation treatment. 13. The modular patient pod of claim 11, wherein the modular patient pod further comprises a positioner-pod connector attached to the shell bottom surface, and a first immobilization device. 14. A modular patient support system for securing a patient in a fixed position during radiation treatment and for repositioning the patient to the fixed position, the support system comprising: a modular patient pod, comprising: a longitudinally-extending support shell extending from a shell proximal edge through a shell longitudinal center section to a shell distal edge, a first upwardly-extending lateral edge, wherein the first upwardly-extending lateral edge further comprises a means for reducing edge effects associated with radiation beams that traverse the first upwardly-extending lateral edge during radiation treatment, and a second upwardly-extending lateral edge, a proximal extension track connected to the shell proximal edge, and a distal extension track connected to the shell distal edge. 15. The support system of claim 14, wherein the first lateral edge further comprises a first tapered edge and a first longitudinally-extending rail, the first rail comprising a first rail inferior portion that is complementary to the shape of the first tapered edge and a first rail superior portion that is rounded, the first rail comprising a first low-density material. 16. The support system of claim 14, wherein the modular patient pod further comprises a positioner-pod connector attached to the shell bottom surface and a first immobilization device. 17. An apparatus for attachment to a hemi-cylindrical patient support shell configured to support a patient undergoing radiation therapy, the apparatus comprising a hemi cylindrical support shell attachment configured for attachment to a proximal end of the support shell wherein the support shell comprises an extension track engaging end having an upper lip and a lower lip, wherein a space between the upper lip and the lower lip is approximately equal to the distance between an inner diameter and an outer diameter of the extension track. 