The present invention relates to methods of screening for expression of a soluble candidate protein within an expression library of candidate proteins. The method involves fusing each candidate protein in the library to a peptide substrate and identifying cells that express soluble candidate protein by detecting enzymatic modification of the peptide substrate.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of generating a library of nucleic acid molecules of varying sizes, wherein each nucleic acid molecule forms an insert within a vector, and each vector comprises two pairs of restriction enzyme cleavage sites positioned so as to flank each side of the nucleic acid insert, the method comprising: a) cleaving a vector having a nucleic acid insert with a first pair of restriction enzymes which cleave at the pair of cleavage sites positioned in the vector on a flank of the nucleic acid insert such that an exonuclease-susceptible nucleic acid end results on an insert end of the vector and an exonuclease-resistant end results on a vector end; b) digesting the linearised vector using an exonuclease, followed by removal of single-stranded DNA; c) recircularising the vector by ligation of the exonuclease susceptible end and the exonuclease-resistant end; d) cleaving the recircularised vector with a second pair of restriction enzymes which cleave at the pair of cleavage sites positioned in the vector on a second flank of the nucleic acid insert, such that an exonuclease-susceptible nucleic acid end results on an insert end of the vector and an exonuclease-resistant end results on a vector end; e) digesting the linearised vector using an exonuclease, followed by removal of single-stranded DNA; and f) recircularising the vector by ligation; wherein step a) is performed on a plurality of vectors having the same insert, to produce the library of nucleic acid molecules comprises nucleic acid inserts truncated at both ends wherein the orientation of each nucleic acid insert within each vector is the same. 2. The method according to claim 1, additionally comprising the step of amplifying the recircularised vectors. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein in the cleavage steps, the exonuclease-susceptible nucleic acid end forms a 5'-overhang and the exonuclease-resistant end forms a 3'-overhang. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the exonuclease is exonuclease III. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pair of restriction enzymes consists of a first restriction enzyme selected from the group consisting of AatII, ApaI, BanII, BglI, BsfXI, HaeII, KpnI, NsiI, PstI, SacI and SphI; and a second restriction enzyme selected from the group consisting of AscI, BamHI, ClaI, Csp45I, EcoRI, EcoRV, HindIII, NcoI, NdeI, NotI, SalI, SmaI, SpeI, XbaI and XhoI. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein samples of linearised vectors are digested using exonuclease for varied periods of time. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the number of samples is 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 115, 130, 145, 160, 175, 190, 205, 220, or more. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the exonuclease digestion reactions in the samples are separated by 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 180, 300, 450 or more seconds. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the coding region for a peptide substrate flanks the sequence of the nucleic acid insert at one terminus, such that the peptide is genetically fused to the protein sequence coded for by the insert sequence upon expression. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the coding region for a purification tag flanks the sequence of the nucleic acid insert at one terminus, such that the peptide is genetically fused to a protein sequence coded for by the insert sequence upon expression. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the vector used is a plasmid vector. 12. The method according to claim 1, additionally comprising transforming a suitable host cell with the recircularised vectors. 13. The method according to claim 12, additionally comprising the step of growing the transformed cells and separating the vectors from the transformed cells. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the host cell is a bacterial cell. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the bacterial cell is selected from the strains DH5.alpha. or BL21. 