A system and method for a neural interface system with a unique identification code includes a sensor including a plurality of electrodes to detect multicellular signals, an processing unit to process the signals from the sensor into a suitable control signal for a controllable device such as a computer or prosthetic limb. The unique identification code is embedded in one or more discrete components of the system. Internal and external system checks for compatibility and methods of ensuring safe and effective performance of a system with detachable components are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for collecting multicellular signals from a central nervous system of a patient and for transmitting processed signals to a controlled device, comprising: a sensor comprising a plurality of electrodes configured to detect the multicellular signals; a processing unit configured to receive the multicellular signals from the sensor, process the multicellular signals to produce processed signals, and transmit the processed signals to the controlled device; and the controlled device for receiving the processed signals, wherein the processing unit creates and records a neural signature representing a reproducible derivative of one or more multicellular signals detected, and wherein a current derivative of the multicellular signals is compared to the recorded neural signature as a check for system compatibility. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the neural signature is based on one or more of: specific channels that have spike activity, spike activity pattern shapes on multiple channels, firing rates on multiple channels, and correlation patterns between channels. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the comparison is performed with one or more of: a linear filter, a maximum likelihood estimator, and a neural network. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the neural signature is created while the patient is shown a specific visual stimulus. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the current derivative of the multicellular signals is generated using the specific visual stimulus. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the system enters an alarm state when the current derivative does not adequately match the previously recorded neural signature. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the alarm state produces one or more of: an audible alarm, a visual alarm, and a tactile alarm. 8. A method for collecting multicellular signals from a central nervous system of a patient and for transmitting processed signals to a controlled device comprising: detecting the multicellular signals using a sensor comprising a plurality of electrodes a processing unit receiving the multicellular signals from the sensor, processing the multicellular signals to produce processed signals, and transmitting the processed signals to the controlled device, and the controlled device receiving the processed signals, the processing unit creating and recording a neural signature representing a reproducible derivative of one or more multicellular signals detected and comparing a current derivative of the multicellular signals to the recorded neural signature as a check for system compatibility. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the neural signature is based on one or more of: specific channels that have spike activity, spike activity pattern shapes on multiple channels, firing rates on multiple channels, and correlation patterns between channels. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the comparing step is performed with one or more of: a linear filter, a maximum likelihood estimator, and a neural network. 11. The method of claim 8, further comprising creating the neural signature while the patient is shown a specific visual stimulus. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising generating the current derivative of the multicellular signals using the specific visual stimulus. 13. The method of claim 8, further comprising entering an alarm state when the current derivative does not adequately match the previously recorded neural signature. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the alarm state produces one or more of: an audible alarm, a visual alarm, and a tactile alarm. 