A mechanical arm comprises a forearm, a spring, and an upper arm disposed between the forearm and the spring, wherein the forearm applies a moment to the upper arm. A copying device associated with the upper arm copies a force associated with the moment to the spring. The spring is adapted to apply a counter-force resisting at least a portion of the moment to reduce a torque for urging the forearm.
Claims I claim: 1. A mechanical arm, comprising: a forearm; a first spring; an upper arm connected between the forearm and the first spring, wherein the forearm applies a mass that generates a first moment at the upper arm; a copy device associated with the upper arm, the copy device copying the first moment to the first spring, wherein the first spring applies a counter-force to a tension member connected between the first spring and the upper arm to resist at least a portion of the moment; a shoulder with which the upper arm is rotatably connected, wherein the upper arm generates a second moment at a junction of the upper arm and the shoulder; a second spring, wherein the second spring applies a counter-force to resist at least a portion of the second moment; a pitch gimbal mechanism pivotable based on pitch movement of the upper arm at the shoulder; and a yaw gimbal mechanism pivotable based on yaw movement of the upper arm at the shoulder. 2. The mechanical arm of claim 1, wherein: the upper arm is adapted to lift a payload, whereby the first moment is increased by the payload; and the first spring is adjustable to adjustably apply a counter-force to balance the first moment. 3. The mechanical arm of claim 2, wherein the first spring is adjustable to adjustably apply a counter-force to balance the first moment when the first moment is increased or decreased. 4. The mechanical arm of claim 2, further comprising: a first spring adjustment device to alter a response characteristic of the first spring; and wherein the first moment is selectively balanced by adjusting the first spring with the first spring adjustment device. 5. The mechanical arm of claim 4, wherein: the first spring adjustment device is a first movable carriage; the first spring is fixedly connected with the first movable carriage; and a stiffness of the first spring changes with a position of the first movable carriage. 6. The mechanical arm of claim 1, wherein: one or both of the upper arm and the forearm is adapted to lift a payload, whereby the second moment is increased by the payload; the second spring is adjustable to adjustably apply a counter-force to balance the second moment. 7. The mechanical arm of claim 6, wherein the second spring is adjustable to adjustably apply a counter-force to balance the second moment when the second moment is increased or decreased. 8. The mechanical arm of claim 6, further comprising: a second spring adjustment device to alter a response characteristic of the second spring; and wherein the second moment is selectively balanced by adjusting the second spring with the second spring adjustment device. 9. The mechanical arm of claim 8, wherein: the second spring adjustment device is a second movable carriage; the second spring is fixedly connected with the second movable carriage; and a stiffness of the second spring changes with a position of the second movable carriage. 10. The mechanical arm of claim 1, further comprising: a pitch gimbal mechanism to adjust a connection of the tension member to the first spring based on pitch movement of the forearm at the upper arm. 11. A mechanical arm comprising: a forearm adapted to support a payload; an upper arm rotatably connected with the forearm, wherein a first moment is generated at a connection of the forearm and the upper arm; wherein the forearm is moveable in a yaw motion or a pitch motion relative to the upper arm; a first spring; a link rotatably connected with the upper arm at a first end and connected to the first spring at a second end by a tension member; a copy device copying the first moment to the link, wherein the first spring applies a first counter-force to the tension member to resist at least a portion of the first moment copied to the link; wherein the link is moveable in a yaw motion or a pitch motion relative to the upper arm in response to a corresponding yaw motion or pitch motion of the forearm; a shoulder with which the upper arm is rotatably connected, wherein the upper arm generates a second moment at a junction of the upper arm and the shoulder; a second spring, wherein the second spring applies a second counter-force to resist at least a portion of the second moment; a first cable gimbal to adjust an orientation of the first tension member relative to the first spring based on one or both of yaw movement and pitch movement of the link; and a second cable gimbal pivotable relative to the second spring based on pitch movement of the upper arm at the shoulder. 12. The mechanical arm of claim 11, wherein the first spring is adjustable to adjustably apply a counter-force to balance the first moment when the first moment is increased or decreased. 13. The mechanical arm of claim 12, further comprising: a first spring adjustment device to alter a response characteristic of the first spring; and wherein the first moment is selectively balanced by adjusting the first spring with the first spring adjustment device. 14. The mechanical arm of claim 13, wherein: the first spring adjustment device is a first movable carriage; the first spring is fixedly connected with the first movable carriage; and a stiffness of the first spring changes with a position of the first movable carriage. 15. The mechanical arm of claim 11, wherein the second spring is adjustable to adjustably apply a counter-force to balance the second moment when the second moment is increased or decreased. 16. The mechanical arm of claim 15, further comprising: a second spring adjustment device to alter a response characteristic of the second spring; and wherein the second moment is selectively balanced by adjusting the second spring with the second spring adjustment device. 17. The mechanical arm of claim 16, wherein: the second spring adjustment device is a second movable carriage; the second spring is fixedly connected with the second movable carriage; and a stiffness of the second spring changes with a position of the second movable carriage. 