A tire loading apparatus and method of packing tires that includes placing the tires in a rack, compressing the tires, and assembling the rack are disclosed. The apparatus includes one or more conveyors, scanners, and robots that load tires from a conveyor to a rack. A tire unloading apparatus is also disclosed. The unloading apparatus includes a scissor mechanism to raise and/or lower tire racks to an unloading platform. The unloading apparatus additionally includes one or more unloaders and conveyors. The sorting and unloading of tires is accomplished with one or more automated conveyors, scanners, and storage structures for reading information from incoming tires and using the tire information to sort and store the tires. A rack to improve compression and support of tires during storage and shipment is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A rack for holding tires, said rack comprising: a top set of tires and a bottom set of tires; a top frame and an intermediate frame configured to compress and prevent permanent deformation of said top set of tires therebetween; a bottom frame and said intermediate frame configured to compress and prevent permanent deformation of said bottom set of tires therebetween; and a vertical member perpendicularly disposed to a surface on which said bottom frame rests, said vertical member attached to said top frame, said intermediate frame and said bottom frame, wherein said top frame is located above and vertically spaced from said intermediate frame; wherein said rack is configured to be stackable such that said rack is configured to support a weight of a second rack loaded with tires; wherein said vertical member comprises at least one of a concave surface and a plurality of flat surfaces arranged in a concave pattern which contacts said top set of tires and said bottom set of tires in said rack. 2. The rack of claim 1, wherein said bottom frame, said intermediate frame, and said top frame are configured to store in a condensed configuration for return shipment with said vertical member. 3. The rack of claim 2, wherein said vertical member is stored parallel to said bottom frame and said top frame, and wherein said vertical member is stored between said bottom frame and said top frame. 4. The rack of claim 1, wherein said vertical member is configured with an internal member and an external member, said external member being configured to contact said tires. 5. The rack of claim 4, wherein said rack is further configured with an attachment mechanism to facilitate attaching said vertical member to at least one of said bottom frame, said intermediate frame, and said top frame. 6. The rack of claim 5, wherein said bottom frame and said intermediate frame are configured to compress said bottom set of tires, wherein said bottom set of tires is configured as a row of tires and wherein said top frame and said intermediate frame are configured to compress a said top set of tires wherein said top set of tires is configured as a row of tires. 7. The rack of claim 1, wherein said bottom frame and said intermediate frame are configured to compress a bottom set of tires stacked in a herringbone arrangement and wherein said top frame and said intermediate frame are configured to compress said top set of tires, wherein said top set of tires are stacked in a herringbone arrangement. 8. The rack of claim 7, wherein said rack is also configured as a shipping vessel. 9. A rack for holding tires, said rack comprising: a top frame and an intermediate frame configured to compress and prevent permanent deformation of a top set of tires therebetween; a bottom frame and said intermediate frame configured to compress and prevent permanent deformation of a bottom set of tires therebetween, wherein said bottom frame and said intermediate frame are configured to compress said bottom set of tires, wherein said bottom set of tires is configured as a row of tires and wherein said top frame and said intermediate frame are configured to compress said top set of tires, wherein said top set of tires is configured as a row of tires, and wherein said bottom frame and said intermediate frame are configured to compress a bottom set of tires stacked in a herringbone arrangement and wherein said top frame and said intermediate frame are configured to compress said top set of tires, wherein said top set of tires are stacked in a herringbone arrangement; and a vertical member attached to said top frame, said intermediate frame and said bottom frame, wherein said vertical member is configured with at least one of a concave surface and a plurality of flat surfaces arranged in a concave pattern, and wherein at least one of said concave surface and said plurality of flat surfaces is configured to contact said tires, and wherein said vertical member is stored parallel to said bottom frame and said top frame, and wherein said vertical member is stored between said bottom frame and said top frame, and wherein said vertical member is configured with an internal member and an external member, said external member being configured to contact said tires; wherein said bottom frame, said intermediate frame, and said top frame are configured to store in a condensed configuration for return shipment with said vertical member, wherein said rack is configured to be stackable and configured to support a weight of another rack loaded with tires, and wherein said rack is further configured with an attachment mechanism to facilitate attaching said vertical member to at least one of said bottom frame, said intermediate frame, and said top frame. 10. The rack of claim 9, wherein said rack is also configured as a shipping vessel. 