To model head assignments for a multihead composite material application machine having a set of heads, a ply geometry for a composite part is received and a configuration for the multihead composite material application machine is received. In addition, a constellation of head locations is generated in response to the ply geometry and the configuration for the multihead composite material application machine. Furthermore, a head location of the constellation of head locations is assigned to a corresponding head of the set of heads and a graphical model of the multihead composite material application machine applying the composite material upon the composite part is generated in response to the assigned head locations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer readable medium on which is embedded computer software comprising a set of instructions for executing a method of modeling head assignments for a multihead composite material application machine having a set of heads, the method comprising: receiving a ply geometry for a composite part; receiving a configuration for the multihead composite material application machine having a common movable tool carriage, each one of the heads of the set of heads being mounted to the common movable tool carriage; generating a constellation of head locations in response to the ply geometry and the configuration for the multihead composite material application machine; assigning ones of the head locations of the constellation of head locations to corresponding ones of the heads of the set of heads, each one of the heads being movable relative to the constellation; and generating a graphical model of the multihead composite material application machine applying composite material upon the composite part in response to the assigned head locations. 2. The computer readable medium according to claim 1, the method further comprising: receiving a target tool file corresponding to the composite part. 3. The computer readable medium according to claim 2, the method further comprising: generating a path and a target tool surface model in response to receiving the target tool file. 4. The computer readable medium according to claim 3, the method further comprising: generating a sequence of constellation passes in response to receiving the constellation of head locations, the path and the target tool surface model, wherein the sequence of constellation passes includes a corresponding constellation of head locations for each pass of the multihead composite material application machine along the target tool surface model. 5. The computer readable medium according to claim 4, the method further comprising: generating a set of head events in response to the sequence of constellation passes, wherein the set of head events includes movement instructions for the set of heads. 6. The computer readable medium according to claim 5, the method further comprising: generating a performance prediction report in response to receiving the set of head events. 7. The computer readable medium according to claim 5, the method further comprising: generating a video of the multihead composite material application machine applying composite material upon the target tool surface model in response to receiving the set of head events. 8. A system for modeling head assignments of a multihead composite material application machine having a set of heads, the system comprising: a memory; a processor containing computer-executable instructions that, when executed on the processor, perform a method comprising the steps of: generating a constellation of head locations in response to receiving a ply geometry and a configuration for the multihead composite material application machine having a common movable tool carriage, each one of the heads of the set of heads being mounted to the common movable tool carriage; assigning a head location of the constellation of head locations to a corresponding head of the set of heads, each one of the heads being movable relative to the constellation; and generating a graphical model of the multihead composite material application machine applying composite material upon a composite part in response to receiving the assigned head locations. 9. The system according to claim 8, further comprising: a data manager to receive data from a set of components of the system and to forward data to the set of components. 10. The system according to claim 8, further comprising: a path generator to generate a path and a target tool surface model in response to receiving a target tool file corresponding to the composite part. 11. The system according to claim 10, further comprising: a head assignment manager to generate a sequence of constellation passes in response to receiving the constellation of head locations, the path and the target tool surface model, wherein the sequence of constellation passes includes a corresponding constellation of head locations for each pass of the multihead composite material application machine along the target tool surface model. 12. The system according to claim 11, further comprising: an event manager to generate a set of head events in response to the sequence of constellation passes, wherein the set of head events includes movement instructions for the set of heads. 13. The system according to claim 12, wherein the event manager is further configured to generate a performance prediction report in response to receiving the set of head events. 14. The system according to claim 12, wherein a head constellation visualizer is configured to generate a video of the multihead composite material application machine applying composite material upon the target tool surface model in response to receiving the set of head events. 15. A method of modeling head assignments for a multihead composite material application machine having a set of heads, the method comprising: receiving a ply geometry for a composite part; receiving a configuration for the multihead composite material application machine; generating a constellation of head locations in response to the ply geometry and the configuration for the multihead composite material application machine having a common movable tool carriage, each one of the heads of the set of heads being mounted to the common movable tool carriage; assigning ones of the head locations of the constellation of head locations to corresponding ones of the heads of the set of heads, each one of the heads being movable relative to the constellation; and generating a graphical model of the multihead composite material application machine applying composite material upon the composite part in response to the assigned head locations. 16. The method according to claim 15, further comprising: receiving a target tool file corresponding to the composite part. 17. The method according to claim 16, further comprising: generating a path and a target tool surface model in response to receiving the target tool file. 18. The method according to claim 17, further comprising: generating a sequence of constellation passes in response to receiving the constellation of head locations, the path and the target tool surface model, wherein the sequence of constellation passes includes a corresponding constellation of head locations for each pass of the multihead composite material application machine along the target tool surface model. 19. The method according to claim 18, further comprising: generating a set of head events in response to the sequence of constellation passes, wherein the set of head events includes movement instructions for the set of heads. 20. The method according to claim 19, further comprising: generating a performance prediction report in response to receiving the set of head events. 21. The method according to claim 19, further comprising: generating a video of the multihead composite material application machine applying composite material upon the target tool surface model in response to receiving the set of head events. 22. A computer readable medium on which is embedded computer software comprising a set of instructions for executing a method of modeling head assignments for a multihead composite material application machine having a set of heads, the method comprising: receiving a ply geometry for a composite part; receiving a configuration for the multihead composite material application machine; generating a constellation of head locations in response to the ply geometry and the configuration for the multihead composite material application machine having a common movable tool carriage, each one of the heads of the set of heads being mounted to the common movable tool carriage; assigning ones of the head locations of the constellation of head locations to corresponding ones of the heads of the set of heads, each one of the heads being movable relative to the constellation; and simulating the multihead composite material application machine applying composite material upon a target tool surface model in a synchronized simulation mode. 23. The computer readable medium according to claim 22, wherein the step of simulating the multihead composite material application machine applying composite material comprises: defining each one of the heads of the set of heads as an independent device having five axes or less. 24. The computer readable medium according to claim 23, wherein the step of simulating the multihead composite material application machine applying composite material further comprises: synchronizing the independent devices by simulating digital communication signals between the independent devices. 25. The computer readable medium according to claim 22, wherein the multihead composite material application machine has a total of more than eighteen axes. 