A diagnostics system comprising a topological map of a target system that has nodes (38, 40, 42, 44, 46, 48) that correspond to components (29, 30, 32, 34, 36) of the target system and links that correspond to connections between the components. Associated with the topological map is a knowledge store (50) that has a structure that reflects or corresponds to that of the topological map. Included in this store (50) is a plurality of sections or libraries each of which is provided for storing design specific data associated with one of the nodes (38, 40, 42, 44, 46, 48) of the topological map. Data received from one or more sensors on the target system is included in the topological map, and used together with the design specific information in the knowledge store to diagnose faults.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A diagnostics system comprising: a topological map of a target system that has nodes that correspond to components of the target system and links that correspond to connections between the components; a knowledge store that has a structure that reflects or corresponds to that of the topological map, the store having a plurality of sections or libraries each of which is provided for storing data associated with one of the nodes defined in the topological map; means for receiving data from one or more sensors on the target system; means for including either the received data in the topological map and/or data that is a function of that received data, and means for diagnosing faults using the data in the topological map and the knowledge store. 2. A system as claimed in claim 1 comprising means for generating data using the received sensor data and adding that generated data to the topological map, preferably wherein the generated data is modelled data and/or activity status data that is indicative of whether a component is active and/or time derivative or dependent data that is indicative of any change in the data as a function of time. 3. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein one or more parameter nodes are provided in association with each component node for storing the received data and/or the generated data. 4. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the means for diagnosing comprise a plurality of diagnostic tools, preferably one or more domain independent diagnostic tools. 5. A system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the domain independent diagnostic tool includes a correlator for nominating a component as being faulty on the basis of a correlation of behaviour of two or more components as a function of time. 6. A system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the correlator is operable identify parameters that track faulty parameters and/or components that become active just before the occurrence of a fault and/or components that are being used at the time of occurrence a fault. 7. A system as claimed in claim 2 including a topology analyser that is operable to identify components that are connected to apparently faulty components and nominate one or more commonly connected components as being faulty. 8. A system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the topology analyser is configured to nominate a commonly connected component as being faulty if more than a pre-determined number of active components connected to the commonly connected component appear faulty. 9. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the means for detecting faults comprise a residual watcher that is operable to nominate a component as being faulty in the event that a sensed parameter is different from a modelled parameter and/or a constraint watcher that is operable to nominate a component as being faulty in the event that a sensed parameter exceeds a pre-determined threshold or is outside a pre-determined range and/or an alarm watcher that is operable to nominate a component in the event that an alarm signal is received. 10. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein for every component identified as being potentially faulty there is included in the topological map a measure of a level of suspicion for that component, preferably wherein the measure of the level of suspicion is stored in the node for that component. 11. A system as claimed in claim 10 wherein the measure of suspicion is monitored using a suspicion index that is changed each time the component is nominated as faulty. 12. A system as claimed in claim 11 wherein the suspicion index is a pre-set integer, such as 0, for a component that has not been nominated and is incremented by 1 each time the component is nominated. 13. A system as claimed in claim 1 comprising means for generating an ordered list of suspicious components, preferably with the most suspicious component presented first. 14. A method for diagnosing faults involving: storing a topological map of a target system that has nodes that correspond to components of the target system and links that correspond to connections between the components; storing a knowledge store that has a structure that reflects or corresponds to that of the topological map, the store having a plurality of sections or libraries each of which is provided for storing data, preferably component specific design data, associated with one of the nodes defined in the topological map; receiving data from one or more sensors on the target system; including the received data in the topological map, and/or data that is a function of that received data, and diagnosing faults using the data in the topological map and the knowledge store. 15. A computer program, preferably on a data carrier or a non-transitory computer readable medium, for diagnosing faults in a target system, the computer program having code or instructions for: receiving data from one or more sensors on the target system; including the received data in a topological map of the target system, the map having nodes that correspond to components of the target system and links that correspond to connections between the components and diagnosing faults using the data in the topological map and a knowledge store, the knowledge store having a structure that reflects or corresponds to that of the topological map, the store having a plurality of sections or libraries each of which is provided for storing data, preferably component specific design data, associated with one of the nodes defined in the topological map. 