Improved method and apparatus for machine vision. One embodiment provides automated imaging and analysis, optionally including Scheimpflug's condition on the pattern projector, telecentric imaging and projecting, an IR filter, a mask to constrain observed illumination, and/or a sine-wave projection pattern for more accurate results. Another embodiment provides circuitry for a machine-vision system. Another embodiment provides a machine-vision system, optionally including accommodation of random orientation of parts in trays, irregular location of features being inspected, crossed pattern projectors and detectors for shadow reduction, detection of substrate warpage as well as ball-top coplanarity, two discrete shutters (or flash brightnesses) interleaved (long shutter for dark features, short shutter for bright features). Another embodiment provides parts inspection, optionally including a tray elevator that lifts trays to an inspection surface, moves trays in short tray dimension, provides first tray inspection at a major surface of the elevator, and/or provides a tray flipper.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A machine-vision system comprising: a first inspection station that performs a machine-vision inspection of a plurality of devices held in a tray, the tray being one of a plurality of trays that are successively inspected at the first inspection station; a tray-moving mechanism; and a plurality of output elevators including a first output elevator and a second output elevator, wherein the first output elevator holds a plurality of trays and to receive a tray to a top tray position of the first output elevator and to then move the plurality of trays held at the first output elevator to lower positions of the first output elevator, wherein the second output elevator holds a plurality of trays and to receive a tray to a top tray position of the second output elevator and to then move the plurality of trays held at the second output elevator to lower positions of the second output elevator, and wherein the tray-moving mechanism successively moves each of the plurality of trays from the first inspection station to the top position of one of the plurality of output elevators and such that a first subset of the plurality of trays is moved to the first elevator and a second subset of the plurality of trays is moved to the second elevator. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine-vision system includes a plurality of inspection stations including the first inspection station and a second inspection station, and wherein the tray-moving mechanism successively moves each of the plurality of trays of devices from the second inspection station to the first inspection station and then to the plurality of output elevators. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of devices include electronic devices. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of devices include eggs. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of devices include strawberries. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of devices include gemstones. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first inspection station acquires two-dimensional device geometry data. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first inspection station is configured to acquires three-dimensional device geometry data. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein each one of the plurality of output elevators includes an elevator floor, an elevator guide, a motor, and a lifting mechanism that moves the elevator floor up and down, wherein the elevator guide and the lifting mechanism are positioned on a side of the elevator floor such that each of the plurality of trays can be moved onto the elevator floor without interference from the elevator guide and the lifting mechanism. 10. A machine-vision method comprising: providing a first inspection station; performing a machine-vision inspection of a plurality of devices held in a tray, the tray being one of a plurality of trays that are successively inspected at the first inspection station; providing a plurality of output elevators including a first output elevator and a second output elevator, wherein the first output elevator holds a plurality of trays and to receive a tray to a top position of the first output elevator and to then move the plurality of trays held at the first output elevator to lower positions of the first output elevator, and wherein the second output elevator holds a plurality of trays and to receive a tray to a top position of the second output elevator and to then move the plurality of trays held at the second output elevator to lower positions of the second output elevator; and successively moving each of the plurality of trays from the first inspection station to the top position of one of the plurality of output elevators and such that a first subset of the plurality of trays is moved to the first elevator and a second subset of the plurality of trays is moved to the second elevator. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the machine-vision method further comprises: providing a plurality of inspection stations including the first inspection station and a second inspection station; and successively moving each of the plurality of trays of devices from the second inspection station to the first inspection station and then to the plurality of output elevators. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of devices include electronic devices, and wherein the performing of the machine-vision inspection at the first inspection station includes machine-vision inspecting the electronic devices. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of devices include eggs, and wherein the performing of the machine-vision inspection at the first inspection station includes machine-vision inspecting eggs. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of devices include strawberries, and wherein the performing of the machine-vision inspection at the first inspection station includes machine-vision inspecting strawberries. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of devices include gemstones, and wherein the performing of the machine-vision inspection at the first inspection station includes machine-vision inspecting gemstones. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein the performing of the machine-vision inspection at the first inspection station includes acquiring two-dimensional device geometry data. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein the performing of the machine-vision inspection at the first inspection station includes acquiring three-dimensional device geometry data. 18. A machine-vision system comprising: means for performing a machine-vision inspection of a plurality of devices held in a tray, the tray being one of a plurality of trays that are successively inspected to create an already-inspected plurality of trays; and a plurality of elevator means, including a first elevator means and a second elevator means, for outputting each of the already-inspected plurality of trays to a top tray position of one of the elevator means and such that a first subset of the already-inspected plurality of trays is moved to the first elevator means and a second subset of the already-inspected plurality of trays is moved to the second elevator means. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the plurality of devices include ball-grid-array electronic devices, and wherein the means for performing the machine-vision inspection includes means for machine-vision inspecting the ball-grid-array electronic devices. 20. The system of claim 18, wherein each one of the plurality of devices is a device selected from the group consisting of eggs, strawberries, and gemstones, and wherein the means for performing the machine-vision inspection includes means for machine-vision inspecting the device selected from the group consisting of eggs, strawberries, and gemstones. 