A medical system comprises a rigid support configured for being affixed relative to a patient table, a carriage assembly configured for being removably mounted to the rigid support, a surgical instrument mounted to the carriage assembly, the surgical instrument carrying a distal tool configured for performing a medical procedure on a patient, and a drive unit configured for being coupled to the surgical instrument to control the movement of the surgical instrument within at least one degree-of-freedom.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A medical system, comprising: a rigid support configured for being affixed relative to a patient table; a carriage assembly configured for being removably mounted to the rigid support; a surgical instrument mounted to the carriage assembly, the surgical instrument carrying a distal tool configured for performing a medical procedure on a patient; and a drive unit coupled to the surgical instrument through the carriage assembly to control the movement of the surgical instrument within at least one degree-of-freedom. 2. The medical system of claim 1, wherein the rigid support is a rigid post configured for being mounted to the patient table. 3. The medical system of claim 1, wherein the carriage assembly comprises at least one rail and a carriage slidably disposed on the at least one rail, the surgical instrument affixed to the carriage. 4. The medical system of claim 1, wherein the carriage assembly is pivotably affixed to the rigid support. 5. The medical system of claim 1, wherein the drive unit is coupled to the surgical instrument via external mechanical cabling. 6. The medical system of claim 1, wherein the drive unit has a motor array. 7. The medical system of claim 1, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises a plurality of degrees-of-freedom. 8. The medical system of claim 1, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom is an actuation of the distal tool. 9. The medical system of claim 1, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom is a linear sliding of the surgical instrument relative to the rigid support. 10. The medical system of claim 1, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom is a pivoting of the surgical instrument about the rigid support. 11. The medical system of claim 1, further comprising a remote controller configured for directing the drive unit to control the movement of the surgical instrument within the at least one degree-of-freedom. 12. The medical system of claim 11, wherein the remote controller has a user interface for receiving commands from a user. 13. The medical system of claim 12, wherein movements made at the user interface correspond to movements of the surgical instrument. 14. The medical system of claim 11, wherein the remote controller is coupled to the drive unit via external electrical cabling. 15. The medical system of claim 1, wherein the drive unit is located outside of a sterile field. 16. The medical system of claim 5, wherein the mechanical cabling is detachable from the drive unit. 17. The medical system of claim 1, wherein the drive unit is mechanically coupled to a side of the patient table, and the surgical instrument is positioned above the patient table. 18. The medical system of claim 17, wherein the drive unit is mechanically coupled to the patient table through a brace, the brace carries an attachment member, the drive unit is coupled to the attachment member, and a lower portion of the rigid support is secured to the attachment member by a clamp. 19. A medical system, comprising: a rigid support configured for being affixed relative to a patient table; a carriage assembly configured for being removably mounted to the rigid support; a yoke configured for being mounted to the rigid support, wherein the carriage assembly further comprises a pivot piece configured for being pivotably secured to the yoke; a surgical instrument mounted to the carriage assembly, the surgical instrument carrying a distal tool configured for performing a medical procedure on a patient; and a drive unit configured for being coupled to the surgical instrument to control the movement of the surgical instrument within at least one degree-of-freedom. 20. The medical system of claim 19, further comprising a bracket configured for being mounted to the rigid support, and a pin configured for removably mounting the yoke to the rigid support. 21. The medical system of claim 19, wherein the drive unit is coupled to the surgical instrument through the carriage assembly. 22. The medical system of claim 19, wherein the carriage assembly comprises at least one rail and a carriage slidably disposed on the at least one rail, the surgical instrument affixed to the carriage. 23. The medical system of claim 19, wherein the carriage assembly is pivotably affixed to the rigid support. 24. The medical system of claim 19, wherein the rigid support is a rigid post configured for being mounted to the patient table. 25. The medical system of claim 19, wherein the drive unit is coupled to the surgical instrument via external mechanical cabling. 26. The medical system of claim 19, wherein the drive unit has a motor array. 27. The medical system of claim 19, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises a plurality of degrees-of-freedom. 28. The medical system of claim 19, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom is an actuation of the distal tool. 29. The medical system of claim 19, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom is a linear sliding of the surgical instrument relative to the rigid support. 30. The medical system of claim 19, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom is a pivoting of the surgical instrument about the rigid support. 31. The medical system of claim 19, further comprising a remote controller configured for directing the drive unit to control the movement of the surgical instrument within the at least one degree-of-freedom. 32. The medical system of claim 31, wherein the remote controller has a user interface for receiving commands from a user. 33. The medical system of claim 32, wherein movements made at the user interface correspond to movements of the surgical instrument. 34. The medical system of claim 31, wherein the remote controller is coupled to the drive unit via external electrical cabling. 35. A medical system, comprising: a rigid support configured for being affixed relative to a patient table; a carriage assembly configured for being removably mounted to the rigid support; a surgical instrument mounted to the carriage assembly, the surgical instrument carrying a distal tool configured for performing a medical procedure on a patient, wherein the surgical instrument comprises an adapter to which the drive unit is coupled and an instrument insert carrying the distal tool and removably disposed within the adapter; and a drive unit configured for being coupled to the surgical instrument to control the movement of the surgical instrument within at least one degree-of-freedom. 36. The medical system of claim 35, wherein the drive unit is coupled to the surgical instrument through the carriage assembly. 37. The medical system of claim 35, wherein the carriage assembly comprises at least one rail and a carriage slidably disposed on the at least one rail, the surgical instrument affixed to the carriage. 38. The medical system of claim 35, wherein the carriage assembly is pivotably affixed to the rigid support. 39. The medical system of claim 35, wherein the rigid support is a rigid post configured for being mounted to the patient table. 40. The medical system of claim 35, wherein the drive unit is coupled to the surgical instrument via external mechanical cabling. 41. The medical system of claim 35, wherein the drive unit has a motor array. 42. The medical system of claim 35, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises a plurality of degrees-of-freedom. 43. The medical system of claim 35, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom is an actuation of the distal tool. 44. The medical system of claim 35, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom is a linear sliding of the surgical instrument relative to the rigid support. 45. The medical system of claim 35, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom is a pivoting of the surgical instrument about the rigid support. 46. The medical system of claim 35, further comprising a remote controller configured for directing the drive unit to control the movement of the surgical instrument within the at least one degree-of-freedom. 47. The medical system of claim 46, wherein the remote controller has a user interface for receiving commands from a user. 48. The medical system of claim 47, wherein movements made at the user interface correspond to movements of the surgical instrument. 49. The medical system of claim 46, wherein the remote controller is coupled to the drive unit via external electrical cabling. 