A sensor to detect and map various mechanical stimuli spatially distributed over the area of contact with the surface of the sensor. The sensor is a thin film including a stack of alternating layers of nanoparticles and dielectric materials sandwiched between electrodes. By applying a bias between the electrodes, the applied stimuli to the sensor is converted to light and/or device-current through the stack. The optical signal may be directly focused on a photo detector, such as a digital camera, to image the distribution of the stimuli. The electronic signal in the form of spatial distribution of device-current over the area of contact may be obtained by patterning top and bottom electrodes and analyzed using standard electronics. The sensor has applications in many fields, including medicine, forensics, basic and applied research, and robotics.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An active sensor device, for converting external stimuli applied by physical contact with the sensor surface to a signal, comprising: a. a thin flexible film b. first and second electrodes, disposed on the top and bottom surfaces, respectively, of the thin flexible film for electrical contact with the thin film; c. at least one layer of nanoparticles in the thin film between the electrodes, said nanoparticles being placed under strain upon the physical contact with the sensor surface; d. at least one layer of a dielectric barrier layer on the either side of the at least one nanoparticle layer, said barrier layer having a thickness of less than 25 nanometers and conductivity less than 10.sup.-9.OMEGA..sup.-1-cm.sup.-1; e. at least one substrate to support the device that does not make physical contact with the stimuli; and f. means for applying an electrical current between said first and second electrodes, said electrical current flowing by tunneling through said dielectric barrier layers and said nanoparticles and being modulated by the strain placed on the nanoparticles upon the physical contact with the sensor surface to thereby provide a signal indicative of the physical contact. 2. A sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein the nanoparticles comprise at least one of conducting and semi-conducting materials. 3. A sensor in accordance with claim 2 wherein the nanoparticles comprise at least one of :CdS, ZnS, CdSe, ZnSe, BN, IP, Au, Ag, Au coated SiO.sub.2, Au coated TiO2, Au coated Co, and FePt coated Fe.sub.3O.sub.4. 4. A sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein the dielectric barrier layer is selected from a group of polyelectrolytes, and insulating polymers, or combinations thereof. 5. A sensor in accordance with claim 4 wherein the dielectric barrier layer is selected from a group of: poly(styrene sulfonate), deoxyribo nucleic acid, poly(lysine), poly(allylamine hydrochloride), and polystyrene. 6. A sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein the dielectric barrier layer and the nanoparticle layer alternate to form a multilayer stack. 7. A sensor in accordance with claim 1, wherein: a) the second electrode and the substrate are transparent; and b) at least one layer of nanoparticles in the multilayer stack are composed of electroluminescent nanoparticles, wherein upon applying a potential between the electrodes the stimuli applied by physical contact with the first electrode modulates the electroluminescent light from the multilayer stack and the current through the said stack. 8. A sensor in accordance with claim 7 wherein the modulated electroluminescent light from the multilayer stack is collected through the bottom of the device and focused on a photo-detector. 9. A sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein the first electrode is selected from the group of: aluminum foil, poly(aniline) thin film, silver or graphite particle filled polymer film, blends of conducting polymer with polyelectrolytes, and metal thin films deposited on the stack surface. 10. A sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein first electrode is covered with a flexible substrate selected from a group of: insulating materials comprising polyimides, polyamides, polyesters and elastomers. 11. A sensor in accordance with claim 1, wherein: a) the first electrode is covered with a flexible substrate; and b) the first and second electrodes are patterned to allow measurement of the modulation of local current through the stack. 12. A sensor in accordance with claim 11 wherein the pattern of the electrodes comprises parallel set of lines and wherein the lines for the top and bottom electrode are disposed at 90.degree. with respect to each other. 13. A sensor in accordance with claim 11 wherein the said patterned first electrode is selected from a group of: poly(aniline) thin film, silver or graphite particle filled polymer film, blends of conducting polymer with polyelectrolytes, and metal thin film lines deposited on the stack surface or the top substrate. 14. A sensor in accordance with claim 11 wherein the said patterned second electrode is selected from a group of: transparent conducting, semi-conducting, or composite of conducting or semiconducting fillers in an insulating polymer matrix material including Indium-Tin oxide, and a carbon nanotube filled polymer composite. 15. A sensor in accordance with claim 11 further including means for measuring the modulated current distribution of the patterned electrode due to said stimuli and computer means to display the spatial distribution of current corresponding to the stimuli. 16. A sensor in accordance with claim 6, wherein: a. the first electrode is covered with a flexible insulating substrate; b. the second electrode is supported on an insulating substrate; and c. the said first and second electrode are patterned to allow measurement of the modulation of local current through the stack. 17. A sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein the nanoparticles in the at least one layer of nanoparticles have an average diameter of less than 100 nm and a polydispersity index of less than 10. 