A robot system that includes a robot and a remote station. The robot and remote station contain monitors, cameras, speakers and microphones that allow for two-way videoconferencing between a physician at the remote station and a patient in the vicinity of the robot. The system also includes a patient monitor that displays patient information such as an x-ray. The patient monitor can be seen by the patient, and by the physician through the robot camera. The system allows for a physician to remotely review the medical information with the patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical system for a patient, comprising: a patient monitor that displays patient information; a mobile robot that has a robot monitor, and a robot camera that captures an image, said robot camera being capable of viewing the patient and said patient monitor; and a remote station that is coupled to said mobile robot, said remote station includes a remote station monitor that displays the image captured by said robot camera and a remote station camera that captures an image that is displayed by said robot monitor. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a server that is coupled to said remote station and said patient monitor and provides said patient information. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said patient information is displayed by said remote station monitor. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a broadband network that is coupled to said remote station and said mobile robot. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said robot monitor and said robot camera move together in at least one degree of freedom. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said patient information includes a medical image. 7. A method for interacting with a patient, comprising: moving a mobile robot that has a camera to view a patient and a patient monitor; displaying patient information on the patient monitor; and, conducting a two-way video conference between the patient, and a medical personnel at a remote station that controls movement of the robot. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the patient information is provided by the remote station. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the patient information is provided by a server. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the patient information is displayed by a remote station monitor. 11. The method of claim 7, further comprising transmitting robot control commands from the remote station to the mobile robot through a broadband network. 12. The method of claim 7, further comprising moving together a robot camera and a robot monitor in at least one degree of freedom. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein the patient information includes a medical image. 