An artificial skin system for use with a robotic assembly such as to provide an animated robot head with realistic skin movement. The skin system includes a receiving component for contacting the manipulator mechanism of the robotic assembly and also includes an exterior skin component that extends over the receiving component. An inner surface of the exterior skin component is integrally bonded to the receiving component such that the exterior skin component moves with the receiving component when a manipulator mechanism or robotics anchored to the receiving component moves or applies a force. The exterior skin component is formed of an elastic material with a second hardness that differs from a first hardness of elastic material of the receiving component, e.g., is less than the first hardness. The skin system includes a backing component bonded to the other components with a third hardness less than the first and second hardnesses.
Claims We claim: 1. An artificial skin system with a movable manipulator mechanism, comprising: a force receiving component with a receiver contacting the manipulator mechanism, the force receiving component having a first hardness; and an exterior skin component extending over the force receiving component and having an inner surface bonded to the force receiving component, wherein the exterior skin component moves with the force receiving component when the manipulator mechanism applies a force to the receiver, wherein the exterior skin component has a second hardness that differs from the first hardness, and wherein the first hardness is greater than the second hardness. 2. The skin system of claim 1, wherein the force receiving component comprises a first elastic material, the exterior skin component comprises a second elastic material, and the movable manipulator mechanism is a component of a robotic assembly. 3. The skin system of claim 2, wherein the first and second elastic materials are an elastomer. 4. The skin system of claim 3, wherein the elastomer comprises silicone and the inner surface is destructively bonded to the force receiving component. 5. The skin system of claim 1, wherein the first hardness is selected to have a value of less than about 60 as measured on a "00" scale by a durometer and the second hardness is selected to have a value of less than about 50 on the "00" scale. 6. The skin system of claim 1, further comprising an elastic backing component positioned adjacent to the force receiving component to transfer force from the force applied to the force receiving component by a robotic assembly to the inner surface, wherein the elastic backing component is bonded to the inner surface of the exterior skin component and has a third hardness that is less than first and second hardnesses. 7. The skin system of claim 6, wherein the elastic backing component is bonded to the force receiving component with a layer of adhesive and wherein the exterior skin component is fabricated by pouring a fluid elastomer over the elastic backing component and the force receiving component, whereby the inner surface of the exterior skin components integrally bonded to the elastic backing component and the force receiving component as the fluid elastomer solidifies. 8. The skin system of claim 6, further comprising a rigid shell for housing the manipulator mechanism of the robotic assembly and supporting the elastic backing component, wherein the exterior skin component extends at least partically over the rigid shell. 9. The skin system of claim 6, wherein the force receiving component extends through the elastic backing component. 10. The skin system of claim 9, wherein the elastic backing component is bonded to a sidewall extending about the circumference of the elastic backing component. 11. A skin system with elastic components for use with robotics, comprising: a force receiving and transmitting component with a receiver portion configured for contacting a robotic assembly to receive skin manipulating forces; a backing component with a gap for receiving the force receiving and transmitting component, whereby the backing component surrounds a periphery of the force receiving and transmitting component; and an exterior component bonded via an inner surface to both the force receiving and transmitting component and the backing component, wherein the force receiving and transmitting component is formed from a material with a first hardness, the backing component is formed from a material with a second hardness less than the first hardness, and the exterior component is formed from a material with a third hardness less than the first hardness. 12. The skin system of claim 11, wherein the second hardness is less than the third hardness. 13. The skin system of claim 11, wherein the backing component is bonded to the periphery of the force receiving and transmitting component. 14. The skin system of claim 11, wherein the force receiving and transmitting component comprises receiver portion for receiving manipulators of the robotic assembly and further comprises a front wall with a first surface bonded to the inner surface and a second surface abutting the receiver portion. 15. The skin system of claim 14, wherein the backing component is bonded to a periphery of the front wall. 16. A skin system, comprising: a force receiving component with a receiver portion configured for contacting a manipulator mechanism; a backing component with a gap for receiving the force receiving component, wherein the force receiving component extends through the force receiving component; and an exterior component with an inner surface integrally bonded to a front wall of the force receiving component and to a facing surface of the backing component, wherein the force receiving is formed from an elastic material with a first hardness and wherein the exterior component is formed from an elastic material with a second hardness less than the first hardness. 17. The skin system of claim 16, wherein the backing component is formed of an elastic material with a third hardness differing from the first and second hardnesses. 18. The skin system of claim 17, wherein the third hardness is less than the second hardness and wherein the backing component is integrally bonded to the force receiving component. 19. The skin system of claim 17, wherein portions of the backing component abut the force receiving component and wherein forces applied to the force receiving component are transmitted directly to the inner surface via the front wall interconnection and are transmitted indirectly to the inner surface via movement of the abutting portions of the backing component. 20. The skin system of claim 16, wherein the manipulator mechanisms comprises first and second manipulators, wherein the receiver portion comprises first and second spaced-apart, recessed surfaces for receiving the manipulators, wherein the front wall includes a gap positioned between the recessed surface, and wherein the exterior component extends over and into the gap. 