The present invention includes methods and apparatus for use in rapid testing for and prediction of a PPAR.alpha. response (i.e. a response similar to that of PPAR.alpha. agonists). The invention includes a PPAR.alpha. response signature comprising a set of twenty genes. The invention discloses methods whereby the differential expression of the genes of the PPAR.alpha. response signature may be used to predict whether a compound will induce a PPAR.alpha. response in a test subject.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for testing the propensity of a test compound to induce a PPAR.alpha. response in a test subject, the method comprising: a) administering an effective amount of a test compound to a test subject for a selected period of time; b) determining a change in expression level of each of a plurality of PPAR.alpha. response indicator genes in a liver tissue sample from said test subject, wherein said plurality of PPAR.alpha. response indicator genes comprises GENBANK.RTM. accession numbers: AI411979 (SEQ ID NO: 1), D00569 (SEQ ID NO: 2), K03249 (SEQ ID NO: 3), NM.sub.--012489 (SEQ ID NO: 4), and NM.sub.--017340 (SEQ ID NO:5); c) determining a statistical significance of the change in expression level of each of said PPAR.alpha. response indicator genes; d) assigning a probability of PPAR.alpha. response induction to said test compound if said plurality of PPAR.alpha. response indicator genes exhibit a statistically significant change in expression level. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said probability is evaluated by the method comprising: a) deriving a test compound vector representing the expression of said indicator genes in response to said test compound; and b) projecting said test compound vector against a signature vector representing the expression of said indicator genes in response to a plurality of compounds known to induce a PPAR.alpha. response, wherein the degree of match between the test compound vector and the signature vector indicates the degree to which the test compound will exhibit the PPAR.alpha. response induction characteristic of the compounds used to derive the signature vector. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said selected period of time is at least about three days. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said selected period of time is at least about five days. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said selected period of time is at least about twenty-eight days. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said probability is assigned by any one of the following methods; Euclidian distance, Pearson's correlation coefficient, or Signature Projection Score. 7. A method for testing the propensity of a test compound to induce a PPAR.alpha. response in a test subject, the method comprising: a) administering an effective amount of a test compound to a test subject for a selected period of time; b) determining a change in expression level of each of a plurality of PPAR.alpha. response indicator genes in a liver tissue sample from said test subject, wherein said plurality of PPAR.alpha. response indicator genes comprises GENBANK.RTM. accession numbers: AI411979 (SEQ ID NO: 1), D00569 (SEQ ID NO: 2), K03249 (SEQ ID NO: 3), NM.sub.--012489 (SEQ ID NO: 4), and NM.sub.--017340 (SEQ ID NO:5); c) determining a statistical significance of the change in expression level of each of said PPAR.alpha. response indicator genes; d) assigning a probability of PPAR.alpha. response induction to said test compound if said plurality of PPAR.alpha. response indicator genes exhibit a statistically significant change in expression level, wherein said probability is assigned by calculating a signature projection score (SPS) for said test compound, wherein said SPS is calculated according to the equation: .times..times..times..times..function..times..times..epsilon..times..time- s..times..times..times..epsilon..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00003## wherein, X.sub.g.sup.c is the test compound gene expression level, for the selected indicator gene g, T.sub.g is the treated gene expression level, for the selected indicator gene g, R.sub.g is the reference gene expression levels, for the selected indicator gene g, and S.sub.g is the scaling factor for the contribution of each indicator gene to the signature projection score, whereby the SPS for said test compound indicates the probability of PPAR.alpha. response induction in a test subject. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the test subject is a rat. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the statistically significant change is an increase in expression level of each of said plurality of indicator genes equal to or greater than about the mean T.sub.g value for the gene listed in Table 1. 