A device defining a chamber for receiving a substance and a thermoplastic portion in fluid communication with the chamber is provided along with a method of filling and sealing the substance within the chamber. The thermoplastic portion defines a penetrable region that is penetrable by a filling member and is heat resealable to hermetically seal an aperture therein by applying laser radiation at a predetermined wavelength and power. The thermoplastic portion comprises a thermoplastic body defining a predetermined wall thickness and includes a styrene block copolymer, an olefin and a predetermined amount of pigment allowing the body to absorb laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength, substantially prevent the passage of radiation through the predetermined wall thickness, and hermetically seal the aperture in the penetrable region in a predetermined time period. The body includes a predetermined amount of lubricant that reduces friction forces at an interface of the filling member and body during penetration thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device defining a chamber for receiving a substance and a thermoplastic portion in fluid communication with the chamber, the thermoplastic portion defining a penetrable region that is pierceable with an injection member to form an aperture therethrough, and is resealable to hermetically seal the aperture, wherein the thermoplastic portion includes (i) a first polymeric material in a first amount by weight including a styrene block copolymer and defining a first elongation; (ii) a second polymeric material in a second amount by weight that is less then the first amount, including at least one of an ethylene alpha-olefin, a polyolefin, and an olefin, and defining a second elongation that is less than the first elongation; and (iii) a lubricant in an amount that reduces friction forces at an interface of the injection member and thermoplastic portion during penetration thereof. 2. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein the thermoplastic portion is heat resealable. 3. A device as defined in claim 2, wherein the thermoplastic portion is heat resealable by applying laser radiation at a predetermined wavelength thereto. 4. A device as defined in claim 3, wherein the predetermined wavelength is approximately 980 nm. 5. A device as defined in claim 3, wherein the thermoplastic portion defines a predetermined wall thickness in an axial direction thereof, and further includes a pigment in an amount that allows the thermoplastic portion to substantially absorb laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength and substantially prevent the passage of radiation through the predetermined wall thickness thereof, and hermetically seal an aperture formed in the penetrable region thereof. 6. A device as defined in claim 5, wherein the amount of pigment is within the range of about 0.3% to about 0.6% by weight. 7. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein the first material defines a higher melting temperature than the second material. 8. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein the first amount is within the range of about 80% to about 97% by weight and the second amount is within the range of about 3% to about 20% by weight. 9. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein the first material defines a first elongation of at least about 75% at about 10 lbs force. 10. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein the lubricant is selected from the group including silicone, mineral oil, and silicone oil. 11. A device as defined in claim 10, wherein the lubricant is silicone oil and the amount of lubricant is within the range of about 0.4% to about 0.6% by weight. 12. A device as defined in claim 1, in combination with an injection member in the form of a needle for penetrating the thermoplastic portion, wherein the needle includes a non-coring, conically-pointed tip defining an included angle within the range of about 15 degrees to about 25 degrees. 13. A device and needle as defined in claim 12, wherein the needle includes a low-friction exterior surface that reduces friction forces between the needle and thermoplastic portion during penetration thereof. 14. A device and needle as defined in claim 13, wherein the low-friction surface is selected from the group including a tungsten carbide surface, an electro-polished stainless steel surface, and a titanium surface. 