This invention relates generally to polypeptides and peptides having an amylase activity, e.g., enzymes, polynucleotides encoding the enzymes, the use of such polypeptides and peptides. In one aspect, the polypeptides having amylase activity have increased activity and stability at acidic, neutral and alkaline pH and increased temperature. In one aspect, the invention provides methods for producing an alcohol, for producing a high-maltose or a high-glucose syrup or a mixed syrup, for liquifying a starch-comprising composition, comprising use of polypeptides having amylase activity of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence having alpha-amylase activity and having at least 95% sequence identity to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:42, or an enzymatically active portion of SEQ ID NO:42 having alpha-amylase activity and at least 150 consecutive amino acids of SEQ ID NO:42. 2. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the sequence comparison is determined by analysis with a sequence comparison algorithm or by visual inspection. 3. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide of claim 2, wherein the amino acid sequence comparison algorithm comprises (a) a FASTA version 3.0t78 with the default parameters; or, (b) BLASTP using as defaults a wordlength of 3, and expectations (E) of 10, and the BLOSUM62 scoring matrix. 4. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the sequence identity is 96%. 5. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide of claim 4, wherein the sequence identity is 97%. 6. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide of claim 5, wherein the sequence identity is 98%. 7. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide of claim 6, wherein the sequence identity is 99%. 8. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the amino acid sequence comprising at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:42 has at least one conservative amino acid substitution relative to SEQ ID NO:42, wherein the conservative amino acid substitution is a substitution of one amino acid residue for another amino acid residue of the same class. 9. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid of claim 8, wherein the substitution of one amino acid residue for another amino acid residue of the same class comprises: substitution of one hydrophobic amino acid for another; or substitution of one polar amino acid for another. 10. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid of claim 8, wherein the substitution of one amino acid residue for another amino acid residue of the same class comprises: a substitution of an isoleucine, valine, leucine, or methionine, for another; or a substitution of arginine for lysine, glutamic acid for aspartic acid or glutamine for asparagine. 11. An isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide having alpha-amylase activity, wherein the polypeptide comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:42; or, an enzymatically active portion thereof having alpha-amylase activity. 12. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide further comprises a heterologous peptide or polypeptide. 13. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide of claim 11, wherein the heterologous peptide or polypeptide comprises an N-terminal identification peptide or a peptide which imparts increased stability or simplified purification. 14. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide of claim 11, wherein the heterologous peptide or polypeptide comprises a heterologous signal sequence. 15. The isolated, recombinant or synthetic polypeptide of claim 13, wherein the heterologous signal sequence comprises a heterologous amylase signal sequence or a heterologous signal sequence from a non-amylase protein. 