Two robotic arms roam in separate, non-overlapping areas of a test station, avoiding collisions. A traveling buffer moves along x-tracks between a front position and a back position. In the front position, a first robotic arm loads IC chips from an input tray or stacker into buffer cavities in the traveling buffer. The traveling buffer then moves along the x-tracks to the back position, where a second robotic arm moves chips from the traveling buffer to test boards for testing. After testing, the second robotic arm moves chips to a second traveling buffer, which then moves along tracks to a front position for unloading by the first robotic arm. Two traveling buffers may move on the same tracks in a loop. The buffer cavities in the traveling buffer move on internal tracks to expand and contract spacing and pitch between the front and back positions to match test-board pitch.
Claims We claim: 1. A dual-robotic parallel test system for testing memory chips comprising: test boards, each having a test socket for receiving a memory chip for testing by the test boards, each test board for electrically connecting a memory chip inserted into the test socket as a portion of memory of the test board; a main system interface, coupled to the plurality of test boards, for commanding the test boards to test memory chips inserted into test sockets and for receiving test results from the test boards; a traveling buffer having buffer cavities for receiving memory chips, the traveling buffer movable between a front position in a front roaming area and a back position in a back roaming area; a back robotic arm, movable within the back roaming area and responsive to commands from the main system interface, for inserting and removing memory chips into the test sockets on the test boards and for inserting and removing memory chips from the buffer cavities on the traveling buffer when traveling buffer is in the back position within the back roaming area; a front robotic arm, movable within the front roaming area and responsive to commands from the main system interface, for inserting and removing memory chips from the buffer cavities on the traveling buffer when the traveling buffer is in the front position within the front roaming area; an input tray, within the front roaming area, for holding untested memory chips, the front robotic arm picking a memory chip from the input tray and inserting the memory chip into the traveling buffer; and an output tray, within the front roaming area, for holding tested memory chips. 2. The dual-robotic parallel test system of claim 1 further comprising: internal tracks on the traveling buffer that move the buffer cavities to adjust a spacing between the buffer cavities; wherein the spacing is larger when the traveling buffer is in the back position than when the traveling buffer is in the front position, whereby the traveling buffer enlarges spacing for insertion into the test boards and reduces spacing for insertion into the output tray. 3. The dual-robotic parallel test system of claim 2 wherein the main system interface commands the front robotic arm to remove memory chips from the input tray and place the memory chips in the buffer cavities in the traveling buffer in the front position; wherein the main system interface commands the traveling buffer in the front position to move to the back position when the buffer cavities contain untested memory chips; wherein the main system interface commands the back robotic arm to remove memory chips from the traveling buffer in the back position and place the memory chips in the test sockets on the test boards, and after testing commands the back robotic arm to remove memory chips from the test sockets on the test boards, and place the memory chips in the traveling buffer in the back position; wherein the main system interface commands the traveling buffer in the back position to move to the front position when the buffer cavities contain tested memory chips; wherein the main system interface commands the front robotic arm to remove memory chips from the buffer cavities in the traveling buffer in the front position and place the memory chips in the output tray, whereby the traveling buffer moves memory chips between the front and back roaming areas for access by the front and back robotic arms. 4. The dual-robotic parallel test system of claim 3 further comprising: a loop track allowing the traveling buffer to move in two dimensions between the front position and the back position; wherein the traveling buffer comprises a pair of traveling buffers traveling in a loop on the loop track between the front roaming area and the back roaming area; wherein the loop track is a physical track or a rotating structure. 5. The dual-robotic parallel test system of claim 4 wherein the front position comprises a pair of positions able to hold both of the pair of traveling buffers simultaneously; wherein the back position comprises a pair of positions able to hold both of the pair of traveling buffers simultaneously. 6. The dual-robotic parallel test system of claim 3 wherein the back robotic arm is attached to a back robotic arm assembly that travels in a length direction on a y-rail, and travels in a width direction on an x-rail, the back robotic arm moving the memory chip up and down to remove and insert the memory chip from the test socket; whereby the back robotic arm is an x-y-z tracked robotic system; wherein the test boards are connected to personal computer PC main boards. 7. The dual-robotic parallel test system of claim 6 wherein the test boards comprise functional test boards and leakage test boards; wherein the leakage test boards are for performing leakage tests on memory chips before the back robotic arm moves the memory chips to the functional test boards for functional testing, whereby leakage testing is performed before functional testing. 8. A memory-chip tester comprising: a traveling buffer for moving memory chips between a first roaming area and a second roaming area; a first robotic device that moves memory chips before testing from an input stack of untested memory chips to the traveling buffer, and moves memory chips after testing from the traveling buffer to an output stack of tested memory chips; wherein the first robotic device moves within the first roaming area; a second robotic device that moves memory chips before testing from the traveling buffer to a test socket, and moves memory chips after testing from the test socket to the traveling buffer; wherein the second robotic device moves within the second roaming area; a host computer for controlling the first robotic device and the second robotic device; a plurality of test stations for testing memory chips that are loaded and unloaded by the second robotic device, each test station comprising: a test board; and a test socket mounted on the test board, the test socket for receiving a memory chip inserted by the second robotic device; wherein the test board executes a test program in response to commands from the host computer, the test program testing the memory chip inserted into the test socket; whereby the traveling buffer moves memory chips between the first roaming area of the first robotic device and the second roaming area of the second robotic device. 9. The memory-chip tester of claim 8 wherein the traveling buffer further comprises: a first traveling buffer chip-tray having buffer cavities for accepting memory chips; a second traveling buffer chip-tray having buffer cavities for accepting memory chips; a looping track that allows the first traveling buffer chip-tray to move in a loop between the first roaming area and the second roaming area, and allows the second traveling buffer chip-tray to move in the loop between the first roaming area and the second roaming area; wherein the looping track is a physical track or a rotating structure, whereby two traveling buffers travel in the loop between the first roaming area and the second roaming area. 10. The memory-chip tester of claim 8 wherein the traveling buffer further comprises: a first traveling buffer chip-tray having buffer cavities for accepting memory chips; a second traveling buffer chip-tray having buffer cavities for accepting memory chips; a first track that allows the first traveling buffer chip-tray to move linearly between the first roaming area and the second roaming area; and a second track that allows the second traveling buffer chip-tray to move linearly between the first roaming area and the second roaming area. 11. The memory-chip tester of claim 10 further comprising: first internal tracks on the first traveling buffer chip-tray that move the buffer cavities within the first traveling buffer chip-tray to adjust a spacing between memory chips inserted into the buffer cavities; second internal tracks on the second traveling buffer chip-tray that move the buffer cavities within the second traveling buffer chip-tray to adjust the spacing between memory chips inserted into the buffer cavities; wherein the spacing is adjusted to a tight spacing when the first traveling buffer chip-tray is in the first roaming area, and adjusted to a wider spacing than the tight spacing when the first traveling buffer chip-tray is in the second roaming area; wherein the spacing is adjusted to the tight spacing when the second traveling buffer chip-tray is in the first roaming area, and adjusted to the wider spacing than the tight spacing when the second traveling buffer chip-tray is in the second roaming area, whereby memory-chip spacing is adjusted between roaming areas by the traveling buffer. 12. A dual-zone robotic multiple-test-board memory tester comprising: main system means for controlling testing of memory chips on multiple test boards; a plurality of testing means for testing memory chips, each testing means comprising: test socket means for receiving a memory chip for testing; test board means, controlled by the main system means, for executing a test program to test a memory chip inserted into the test socket means; input buffer means for storing memory chips before testing by the test board means; output buffer means for storing memory chips after testing by the test board means; traveling buffer means for moving memory chips between a first roaming area and a second roaming area; first robotic means, controlled by the main system means to move within the first roaming area, for grasping a memory chip from the input buffer means and moving the memory chip to and inserting the memory chip in the traveling buffer means, and for grasping the memory chip from the traveling buffer means and moving the memory chip to and inserting the memory chip in the output buffer means; and second robotic means, controlled by the main system means to move within the second roaming area, for grasping a memory chip and inserting the memory chip into the test socket means, the second robotic means also for grasping and removing the memory chip from the test socket means after completion of the test program, and moving the memory chip to the traveling buffer means when the test board means indicates to the main system means that the memory chip has passed the test program; wherein the dual-zone robotic multiple-test-board memory tester has a plurality of the test board means, each test board means for executing the test program on a different memory chip in parallel with other test board means, whereby parallel testing of memory chips is performed by the test board means. 13. The dual-zone robotic multiple-test-board memory tester of claim 12 wherein the first roaming area and the second roaming area are non-overlapping areas. 14. The dual-zone robotic multiple-test-board memory tester of claim 13 wherein the first robotic means further comprises: first multi-chip means for grasping, moving, and inserting a gang of multiple memory chips that are moved together simultaneously; wherein the second robotic means further comprises: second multi-chip means for grasping, moving, and inserting a gang of multiple memory chips that are moved together simultaneously, whereby multiple memory chips are moved together by robotic arms. 15. The dual-zone robotic multiple-test-board memory tester of claim 14 wherein the traveling buffer means further comprises a plurality of buffer cavity means for accepting the memory chips. 16. The dual-zone robotic multiple-test-board memory tester of claim 15 wherein the traveling buffer means further comprises: internal track means for moving the plurality of buffer cavity means to increase and decrease a pitch between memory chips inserted into the plurality of buffer cavity means, whereby memory-chip pitch is adjusted by the traveling buffer means. 17. The dual-zone robotic multiple-test-board memory tester of claim 16 wherein each test board means comprises a plurality of the test socket means, each test board means for testing a plurality of the memory chips inserted into the plurality of test socket means on the test board means. 18. The dual-zone robotic multiple-test-board memory tester of claim 17 wherein the input buffer means stores memory chips arranged with a first pitch; wherein the output buffer means stores memory chips arranged with the first pitch; wherein the test socket means on the test board means tests inserted memory chips arranged with a second pitch; wherein the second pitch is larger than the first pitch, wherein the internal track means on the traveling buffer means adjusts memory-chip pitch between the first pitch and the second pitch. 19. The dual-zone robotic multiple-test-board memory tester of claim 18 wherein the internal track means on the traveling buffer means increases memory-chip pitch from the first pitch to the second pitch when the traveling buffer means moves from the first roaming area to the second roaming area; wherein the internal track means on the traveling buffer means decreases memory-chip pitch from the second pitch to the first pitch when the traveling buffer means moves from the second roaming area to the first roaming area, whereby memory-chip pitch is adjusted when the traveling buffer means moves between roaming areas of robotic arms. 20. The dual-zone robotic multiple-test-board memory tester of claim 16 further comprising: second traveling buffer means for moving memory chips between the first roaming area and the second roaming area, whereby two traveling buffers are used between roaming areas of robotic arms. 21. The dual-zone robotic multiple-test-board memory tester of claim 20 further comprising: first track means for moving the traveling buffer means between the first roaming area and the second roaming area; and second track means for moving the second traveling buffer means between the first roaming area and the second roaming area. 22. The dual-zone robotic multiple-test-board memory tester of claim 21 further comprising: loop track means for connecting the first track means to the second track means to permit movement of the traveling buffer means on both the first track means and on the second track means, and to permit movement of the second traveling buffer means on both the first track means and on the second track means, whereby the traveling buffer means and the second traveling buffer means travel in a loop among the first track means and the second track means and the loop track means. 