A sensor interface is disclosed including a flexible substrate in which are embedded sensors for measuring physical parameters such as temperature, displacement, velocity, acceleration, stress, strain, pressure and force present between objects such as a railcar bearing and a truck side frame. The substrate is positioned between the objects of interest Electronic components such as a data processing unit, a data storage device, a communication device and a power source may also be embedded within the substrate. The electronic devices communicate with one another and the sensors to process signals generated by the sensors indicative of the parameters being measured.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A railcar truck sensor interface positioned between a bearing adapter and a side frame of a railcar truck, said sensor interface comprising: a flexible and resilient substrate having a first surface interfacable with said bearing adapter and a second surface interfacable with said side frame, the substrate allowing for limited relative movement of said adapter and said side frame; and at least one sensor embedded within said flexible and resilient substrate, said sensor being adapted to measure a parameter and generate an electrical signal indicative of said parameter. 2. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 1, wherein said parameter is selected from the group consisting of voltage differential, luminous intensity, sound intensity, heat flux, electrical current, moisture diffusion, chemical species diffusion, magnetic flux, neutron flux, ionizing radiation, temperature, displacement, velocity, acceleration, stress, strain, pressure and force, and combinations thereof. 3. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 1 wherein said substrate is formed as part of a load bearing pad disposed between and interfacing with said bearing adapter and said side frame so as to transmit a load therebetween. 4. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 1 wherein said substrate is an elastomeric load bearing substrate. 5. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 1 wherein said sensor is configured to measure a parameter of said substrate. 6. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 1, further comprising: a data processing unit in communication with said sensor for receiving and processing said signals; a communication device adapted to transmit data from said data processing unit; and a power source providing electrical power to said sensor, said data processing unit, and said communication device. 7. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 6, wherein said data processing unit is embedded within said substrate. 8. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 7, wherein at least one of said first and second surfaces has a dimple positioned therein overlying said data processing unit. 9. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 6, wherein said communication device is embedded within said substrate. 10. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 9, wherein at least one of said first and second surfaces has a dimple positioned therein overlying said communication device. 11. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 6, wherein said power source is embedded within said substrate. 12. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 11, wherein at least one of said first and second surfaces has a dimple positioned therein overlying said power source. 13. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 11, wherein said power source comprises a generator which derives energy from relative motion between said bearing adapter and said side frame. 14. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 11, wherein said power source comprises a vibrating magnetic induction device which derives energy from motion of the sensor interface. 15. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 6, further comprising an appendage extending from said substrate and positioned external to the space between said bearing adapter and said side frame, said data processing unit and said communication device being embedded within said appendage. 16. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 15, wherein said power source is embedded within said appendage. 17. A railcar truck sensor interface according to claim 15, further comprising a data storage device embedded within said appendage. 18. A railcar truck sensor interface positioned between two relatively rigid objects that are moveable relative to one another and which transmit a load from one to the other, wherein one of said rigid objects is a bearing adapter and the other of said rigid objects is a side frame of the railcar truck, said sensor interface comprising: a flexible and resilient load bearing substrate having a first surface that interfaces with one of said objects and a second surface that interfaces with the other of said objects, said substrate serving as a compliant interface allowing for limited relative movement between said objects and transmitting the load between said objects; a plurality of sensors embedded within said flexible substrate, said sensor being adapted to measure a plurality of parameters selected from the group consisting of temperature, displacement, velocity, acceleration, stress, strain, pressure, and force and combinations thereof, said sensors generating electrical signals indicative of said parameters; a data processing unit embedded within said substrate and in communication with said sensor for receiving and processing said signals; a communication device embedded within said substrate and adapted to transmit data from said data processing unit; and a power source embedded within said substrate and providing electrical power to said sensor, said data processing unit, and said communication device. 19. A sensor interface according to claim 18, wherein at least one of said first and second surfaces has a first dimple positioned therein and overlying said data processing unit, a second dimple overlying said communication device, and a third dimple overlying said power source. 20. A sensor interface according to claim 18, further comprising an appendage extending from said substrate and positioned external to a space between said objects, said data processing unit, said communication device and said power source being embedded within said appendage. 21. A sensor interface according to claim 18 wherein said substrate is formed as part of a pad disposed between and interfacing with said two objects. 22. A sensor interface according to claim 18 wherein said substrate is formed of an elastomeric pad. 23. A method of measuring and evaluating a physical parameter at an interface of a railcar truck between a bearing adapter and a side frame of said truck, said method comprising: providing a flexible, compliant load bearing substrate positioned between said bearing adapter and said side frame, said substrate comprising at least one sensor embedded therein and transmitting a load between said bearing adapter and said side frame; and measuring said parameter using said sensor, said sensor generating electrical signals indicative of said parameter. 24. A method according to claim 23, wherein said measuring step further comprises measuring a parameter selected from the group consisting of voltage differential, luminous intensity, sound intensity, heat flux, electrical current, moisture diffusion, chemical species diffusion, magnetic flux, neutron flux, ionizing radiation, temperature, displacement, velocity, acceleration, stress, strain, pressure and force and combinations thereof. 25. A method in accordance with claim 23 further comprising the steps of: providing a data processing unit in communication with said sensor; providing a communication device adapted to transmit data from said data processing unit; providing a power source for powering said sensor, said data processing unit and said communication device; said data processing unit receiving said signals from said sensor; said data processing unit performing operations on said signals, said operations selected from the group consisting of averaging, filtering, comparing, scaling, calibrating, spectral analysis, encryption, analog to digital conversion, and combinations thereof; and using said communication device to transmit information derived from said signals by said data processing unit. 26. A railcar truck having a sensor interface positioned between a bearing adapter and a side frame of said truck within a retainer pocket of said truck, said sensor interface comprising: a flexible and compliant load bearing pad having a first surface that interfaces with said bearing adapter and a second surface that interfaces with said side frame in said retainer pocket, said pad being positioned to bear and transmit a load between said side frame and said adapter, said pad allowing for relative movement between the adapter and said side frame; at least one sensor embedded within said pad, said sensor being adapted to measure at least one parameter selected from the group consisting of temperature, displacement, velocity, acceleration, stress, strain, pressure and force, and combinations thereof, said sensor generating an electrical signal indicative of said parameter; a data processing unit in communication with said sensor for receiving and processing said signals; a communication device adapted to transmit data from said data processing unit; and a power source providing electrical power to said sensor, said data processing unit, and said communication device. 27. A railcar truck according to claim 26, wherein said power source is embedded within said pad, and wherein said power source comprises a generator which derives energy from relative motion between said bearing adapter and said side frame. 28. A railcar truck according to claim 26, further comprising a data storage device. 29. A railcar truck according to claim 26 wherein said power source is a thermally generated power source. 30. A railcar truck according to claim 26 wherein said pad comprises an elastomeric pad. 31. A railcar truck according to claim 26, wherein said data processing unit is embedded within said pad. 32. A railcar truck according to claim 31, wherein said data processing unit comprises a component selected from the group consisting of analog signal conditioning devices, analog electrical circuits, microprocessors, application specific integrated circuits, field programmable gate arrays and digital signal processing devices and combinations thereof. 33. A railcar truck according to claim 26, further comprising an appendage extending from said pad and positioned external to a space between said bearing adapter and said side frame, said data processing unit and said communication device being embedded within said appendage. 34. A railcar truck according to claim 33, wherein said power source is embedded within said appendage. 35. A railcar truck, comprising: a railcar truck side frame; a bearing adapter; a sensor interface disposed between said bearing adapter and said side frame of said truck, said sensor interface comprising a flexible and resilient substrate positioned to allow for limited movement of said adapter and said side frame relative to one another and to transmit a load of said side frame through said substrate to said bearing adapter; and at least one sensor embedded within said substrate, said sensor being adapted to measure a parameter and generate an electrical signal indicative of said parameter. 