Confectionary image design system including a graphical user interface through which a user defines a pattern of confectionary pieces to be arranged on a substrate. A computer processor controls the graphical user interface through which the user defines the pattern, and provides instructions for arranging the confectionary pieces in the defined pattern. A container retains the confectionary pieces used to form the defined pattern. A robot receives from the computer processor the instructions for arranging the confectionary pieces, retrieves the confectionary pieces stored in the container, and arranges the pieces on the substrate in the pattern defined by the user.
Claims We claim: 1. A confectionary image design system, comprising: a display adapted to display a graphical user interface through which a user defines a pattern of confectionary pieces to be arranged on a substrate; a computer processor adapted to control the graphical user interface through which the user defines the pattern, and to provide instructions for arranging the confectionary pieces in the defined pattern; a plurality of containers adapted to retain the confectionary pieces used to form the defined pattern, with each container of the plurality of containers holding confectionary pieces of a different color; and a robot comprising a robotic production system and a robot controller, the robot controller receiving from the computer processor the instructions for arranging the confectionary pieces and controlling the robotic production system to retrieve the confectionary pieces stored in the plurality of containers and arrange the pieces on the substrate in the pattern defined by the user. 2. The confectionary image design system according to claim 1, wherein the confectionary image design system is a stand-alone kiosk. 3. The confectionary image design system according to claim 1, wherein the computer processor communicates with the robot controller over a computer network. 4. The confectionary image design system according to claim 1, wherein the user defines the pattern by selecting points on a grid displayed in the graphical user interface, with the selected points on the grid corresponding to placement of the confectionary pieces on the substrate. 5. The confectionary image design system according to claim 4, wherein the substrate comprises depressions arranged in a grid corresponding to the grid displayed on the graphical user interface, and wherein the robot controller controls the robotic production system to place individual confectionary pieces in the depressions in a pattern corresponding to the selected points on the grid displayed on the graphical user interface. 6. The confectionary image design system according to claim 5, wherein the robotic production system comprises a movable robotic arm and a vacuum, and the robotic arm retrieves individual confectionary pieces stored in the pluraity of containers through vacuum suction supplied by the vacuum. 7. The confectionary image design system according to claim 1, wherein the user selects colors to be used in the pattern from different color options provided in the graphical user interface, which color options correspond to the different colors of the confectionary pieces of the plurality of containers, and wherein the robotic production system retrieves the different color confectionary pieces from the plurality of containers based on the user's color selections. 8. The confectionary image design system according to claim 7, wherein the user defines the pattern by selecting points on a grid displayed on the graphical user interface and a color to be displayed at each selected point, with the points corresponding to positions on the substrate at which confectionary pieces of the selected colors are to be placed by the robotic production system. 9. The confectionary image design system according to claim 1, wherein the computer processor comprises an associated memory storing preset images which the user can select using the graphical user interface in defining the pattern. 10. The confectionary image design system according to claim 1, further comprising an interface for uploading images to the computer processor for use in defining the pattern. 11. The confectionary image design system according to claim 1, wherein the substrate is plastic and includes a clear cover for retaining the confectionary pieces in place when closed. 12. The confectionary image design system according to claim 1, wherein the robotic production system retrieves confectionary pieces from at least one confectionary discharge holder adapted to receive confectionary pieces from at least one of the plurality of containers. 13. A method of designing and arranging a pattern of confectionary pieces on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: accepting, through a graphical user interface which allows a customer to define a pattern of confectionary pieces to be arranged on the substrate, data corresponding to the customer-defined pattern; using a computer processor to provide instructions based upon the accepted data; receiving at a robot controller the provided computer instructions; and operating a robotic production system, using the robot controller and in accordance with the computer instructions, to arrange confectionary pieces on the substrate in the customer-defined pattern, wherein the user selects colors to be used in the pattern from different color options in the graphical user interface provided in the accepting step, which color options correspond to different color confectionary pieces, and wherein, in the operating step, the robotic production system arranges the different color confectionary pieces based on the user's color selections. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein all of the steps are performed at a kiosk in a single location. 15. The method according to claim 13, wherein information concerning the customer-defined pattern is transmitted over the Internet for implementation by the robotic production system. 16. The method according to claim 13, wherein the accepting step comprises a sub-step of providing a graphical user interface in which the user defines the pattern by selecting points on a grid displayed in the graphical user interface, with the selected points on the grid corresponding to placement of the confectionary pieces on the substrate. 17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the substrate comprises depressions arranged in a grid corresponding to the grid displayed on the graphical user interface, and wherein, in the operating step, the robot controller controls the robotic production system to place individual confectionary pieces in the depressions in a pattern corresponding to the selected points on the grid displayed on the graphical user interface. 18. The method according to claim 13, wherein the accepting step comprises a sub-step of providing a memory storing preset images which the user can select using the graphical user interface in defining the pattern. 19. The method according to claim 13, wherein, in the operating step, the robotic production system retrieves confectionary pieces from at least one confectionary discharge holder adapted to receive confectionary pieces from at least one container. 20. A confectionary image design system, comprising: a display adapted to display a graphical user interface through which a user defines a pattern of confectionary pieces to be arranged on a substrate; a computer processor adapted to control the graphical user interface through which the user defines the pattern, and to provide instructions for arranging the confectionary pieces in the defined pattern; at least one container adapted to retain the confectionary pieces used to form the defined pattern; and a robot comprising a robotic production system and a robot controller, the robot controller receiving from the computer processor the instructions for arranging the confectionary pieces and controlling the robotic production system to retrieve the confectionary pieces stored in the at least one container and arrange the pieces on the substrate in the pattern defined by the user, wherein the user defines the pattern by selecting points on a grid displayed in the graphical user interface, with the selected points on the grid corresponding to placement of the confectionary pieces on the substrate. 