An operator alterable space is described, for use with a data storage library. The library has a frame substantially defines an interior environment and is exposed to an exterior environment. The operator alterable space is adapted to accommodate either a drive module that is capable of storing data to a magazine storage element or a shelf module capable of accommodating at least the magazine storage element whereby the magazine storage element can be disposed in the shelf module. The operator alterable space is accessible from the exterior environment for installing either the shelf module or the drive module via an opening in the frame. The operator alterable space is also accessible to a magazine transport from the interior environment, wherein the magazine transport is capable of moving the magazine storage element to the operator alterable space.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage library comprising: an interior environment and an exterior environment substantially defined by a library frame; an opening in the frame providing access to a mounting structure, the mounting structure adapted to accommodate either a shelf module, that accommodates disposition of a magazine storage element, or a drive module, that is capable of accessing data retained in memory in the magazine storage element, wherein when the mounting structure accommodates the drive module both the opening is substantially obstructed and the drive module maintains accessibility from the exterior environment; a power source and communication pathway associated with the mounting structure adapted to provide power and communication to the drive module; a magazine transport that is substantially confined to operate within the interior environment, the magazine transport capable of moving the magazine storage element to either the drive module or shelf module accommodated by the mounting structure. 2. The data storage library of claim 1 wherein the magazine storage element is selected from the group consisting of: a magnetic disk drive magazine comprising a plurality of magnetic disk drives, a solid state memory magazine comprising a plurality of non-moving recording media, a magneto-optical magazine comprising a plurality of magneto-optical storage devices, an optical drive magazine comprising a plurality of optical recording devices, a magazine comprising a plurality of tape cartridges. 3. The data storage library of claim 1 wherein the drive module comprises at least one docking station adapted to receive the magazine storage element via a docking station opening that is accessible to the magazine transport. 4. The data storage library of claim 1 wherein the frame provides a second opening adapted to receive either a drive module or a shelf module wherein when said drive module is disposed in said second opening, said drive module substantially obstructs the second opening and yet is accessible from the exterior environment. 5. The data storage library of claim 1 further comprises a means for attaching the shelf module and the drive module to the frame. 6. A magazine-based data cartridge library comprising: a shelf system where at least a first disk drive magazine and a second disk drive magazine can be disposed; at least a first docking station adapted to cooperate with each of the first and second disk drive magazines to provide power and a communication link with the library; a robotic magazine transport capable of transporting one of the first and second disk drive magazines from the shelf system into a position of cooperation with the first docking station; and an operator alterable space substantially defined by a frame of the library and adapted to accommodate one of a plurality of interchangeable modules including a shelf module and a drive module, the shelf module adapted to accommodate at least a third disk drive magazine and the drive module adapted to accommodate at least a second docking station, the shelf module capable of being used in substitution for the drive module through an opening in the frame. 7. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 6 further comprising a second operator alterable space. 8. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 6 wherein the opening accessible from an exterior location relative to the library. 9. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 6 wherein the operator alterable space comprises a mounting structure adapted to fixedly mount one of the modules. 10. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 6 wherein the robotic magazine transport is interposed in a transport space between the shelf system and the operator definable space. 11. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 6 wherein the shelf module is adapted to receive the third data cartridge magazine through a magazine opening facing the transport space. 12. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 6 wherein the docking station module comprises a plurality of drive bays adapted to receive at least the second docking station. 13. The magazine-based data cartridge library of claim 12 wherein the docking station bays are adapted to receive at least the second docking station through a drive bay opening accessible from an exterior location relative to the library. 14. A method comprising: providing a magazine-based library possessing an operator alterable space adapted to accommodate either a shelf module or a drive module wherein the shelf module is adapted to support at least a first magazine storage element and a second magazine storage element; the drive module is adapted to access one of the first and second magazine storage elements for reading and writing data; and a robotic magazine transport capable of transporting one of the first and second magazine storage elements from the shelf module into a position for the drive module to access the magazine to read and write data; accessing the operator alterable space via an accommodating opening in a frame associated with the magazine-based library, the frame defining an interior environment in the magazine-based library; inserting the drive module into the operator alterable space through the opening from a location outside of the interior environment wherein the drive module substantially obstructs the accommodating opening in the frame when the drive module is inserted in the opening, the drive module remaining accessible from outside the interior environment when inserted in the opening and the drive module accessible to the robotic magazine; providing power to the drive module through a power source provided by the library. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising positioning the magazine via the magazine transport to a docking station opening adapted to receive the magazine and linking the magazine to the library via the docking station. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising: detaching the drive module from a mounting structure associated with the operator alterable space; disengaging the power from a power source that provides power to the drive module; removing the drive module from the library through the accommodating opening from outside the interior environment. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising: inserting a shelf module through the accommodating opening from outside the interior environment and attaching the shelf module fixedly to the mounting structure. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising positioning the magazine transport to a shelf opening of the shelf module from the interior environment and displacing the magazine from the shelf module via the magazine transport. 19. The method of claim 14 wherein the magazine-based library possesses a second operator alterable space that is essentially contiguous to the operator alterable space. 