Disclosed herein is a holder for biological sample containers such as well plates. The holder comprises a flat vacuum bed surrounded by a seal. A container is placed within the seal and a vacuum is applied, pressing and flattening the lower surface of the sample container against the flat vacuum bed. Samples in all portions of the container may then be imaged without the need to refocus on each portion of the container. For imaging, a sample in a well can be illuminated by a beam of light arranged so that a part or all of the sample is illuminated by direct rays that have not passed through the well plate. The beam is redirected to other parts of the well if a single illumination does not cover the whole well, so that the sample to be imaged using a series of partial images.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of imaging a biological sample in a well of a well plate, the well defined by a side wall and a base, the method comprising: illuminating the base of the well by directing downwardly onto the base of the well a beam of light so that part of the base is illuminated by light rays in the beam incident on the base that have not first passed through a part of the well plate, and repositioning at least one of the well and the beam to direct the beam onto a further part of the base as many times as necessary for every part of the base to be so illuminated; recording an image of the biological sample each time the base is illuminated, wherein the beam of light is directed onto the base so that no light ray in the beam incident on the base passes first through a part of the well plate, wherein the beam of light has a propagation axis and comprises light rays converging to a focus on the propagation axis, the beam being defined, in a plane parallel to the propagation axis, by a first light ray parallel to the propagation axis and a second light ray at an angle to the propagation axis, arranging in the beam a converging lens centered on the propagation axis and an aperture offset from the propagation axis that passes a fraction of the beam; and the directing comprises positioning the well in the beam before the focus so that the first light ray is substantially parallel to the side wall of the well. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the beam of light is directed onto the base so that at least some light rays in the beam are incident on the base at an oblique angle, and wherein the or each image is recorded in a dark field configuration where light from the beam, if not scattered, does not contribute to the image. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the converging lens and the aperture are positioned and the aperture is shaped and dimensioned to pass a fraction of the beam that illuminates approximately one quadrant of the base. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the aperture is crescent-shaped with the propagation axis located within the curve of the crescent but outside the aperture. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the beam is directed onto the base four times, each time illuminating a different quadrant of the base, and the repositioning the well and/or the beam comprises repositioning the beam by rotating the aperture about the propagation axis by 90, 180 or 270 degrees, and repositioning the well by linearly moving the well plate to bring the different quadrants into line with the repositioned beam. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising repeating the illuminating and the recording for a plurality of wells in the well plate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein illuminating every part of the base requires two or more parts of the base to be illuminated, and the method further comprises repeating the illuminating and the recording for many or all wells in the well plate. 8. The method of claim 7, comprising: illuminating and recording an image for a first part of each well of the many or all wells; illuminating and recording an image for a second part of each well of the many or all wells; and if necessary repeating the illuminating and recording for further parts of each of the many or all wells until every part of each of the many or all wells has been illuminated. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the well plate comprises an array of wells arranged in rows, and the method comprises: illuminating and recording an image for a first part of each well in a first row; illuminating and recording an image for a second part of each well in the first row; if necessary repeating the illuminating and recording for further parts of each well in the first row until every part of each well in the first row has been illuminated; illuminating and recording an image for a first part of each well in a second row; illuminating and recording an image for a second part of each well in the second row; if necessary repeating the illuminating and recording for further parts of each well in the second row until every part of each well in the second row has been illuminated; and repeating the illuminating and recording for each further row in the well plate. 10. The method of claim 5, wherein the well plate comprises an array of wells arranged in rows, and the method comprises: illuminating and recording an image for a first quadrant of each well in a first row in a consecutive sequence in a first direction along the row; repositioning the well plate and/or the beam to illuminate a second quadrant of each well; illuminating and recording an image for the second quadrant of each well in the first row in a consecutive sequence in a second direction along the row opposite to the first direction; repositioning the well plate and/or the beam to illuminate a third quadrant of each well; illuminating and recording an image for the third quadrant of each well in the first row in a consecutive sequence in the first direction along the row; repositioning the well plate and/or the beam to illuminate a fourth quadrant of each well; illuminating and recording an image for the fourth quadrant of each well in the first row in a consecutive sequence in the second direction; and repeating the illuminating and recording for each further row in the well plate. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the beam of light has a wavelength selected to excite a dye of interest with which the sample has been marked. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the image is recorded by selectively collecting light of wavelengths associated with fluorescence, auto-fluorescence or Raman emission from the dye of interest. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the sample is at least one cell. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the dye is contained in the at least one cell. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the at least one cell is contained in a medium which is marked with the dye whose optical activity is modified by secretion from the at least one cell. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the secretion is a protein, nucleic acid, lipid, sugar, metabolite or drug. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein the dye is an inherent part of the at least one cell. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one cell is an animal cell. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the at least one animal cell express a biological molecule of interest. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the biological molecule of interest is selected from the group consisting of: a peptide, a polypeptide, a nucleic acid, a lipid, a metabolyte, a glycosylated or unglycosylated protein, and a biopharmaceutical protein. 21. The method of claim 11, wherein the dye is selected from the group consisting of: a protein, a nucleic acid, a lipid, a sugar, a metabolite, and a drug. 22. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one cell is a protein, nucleic acid, lipid, sugar or metabolite. 23. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one cell secretes an agent which is detected by white light, infra-red, or Raman spectroscopy. 24. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one cell secretes an agent which is detected by addition to the at least one cell of a compound that is detected by autofluorescence. 25. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one cell contains an agent detected by addition to the at least one cell of a compound that is detected by fluorescence, white light, infra-red, Raman spectroscopy, or autofluorescence. 26. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one cell secretes an agent detected by addition to the at least one cell of a compound that is detected by fluorescence, white light, infra-red, Raman spectroscopy, or autofluorescence. 27. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one cell has a membrane which contains an agent which is detected by addition to the at least one cell of a compound that is detected by fluorescence, white light, infra-red, Raman spectroscopy, or autofluorescence. 