A "construction set" consisting of active and passive parts connected by joints that can be manipulated to form an movable articulated assembly representing things like animals and skeletons. Each active part includes a position sensor for acquiring and storing position data specifying a sequence of positions assumed by the active part as the assembly is reshaped, and a controllable drive motor for moving the active part relative to a connected part in accordance with the position data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A trainable modular robot comprising: one or more active modules and one or more passive modules, each of said active and each of said passive modules consisting of a body member and one or more fixed fasteners for rigidly attaching said body member to the body member of one or more other modules to form a rigid articulated structure, each of said passive modules used to form said rigid articulated structure being selected from a collection of passive modules of different shapes including straight, T-shaped, L-shaped or shaped with at least one 108 degree bend such that said rigid articulated structure has a cubic or hexagonal crystalline geometry, each of said active modules further comprising, in combination, a movable fastener for movably attaching said body member to a further module not included in said rigid articulated structure to form a combined structure that can be manually reshaped, a position sensor for acquiring and storing position data specifying a sequence of positions assumed by said further module as said combined structure is manually reshaped, and a controllable drive motor coupled to said movable fastener for moving said further module relative to said rigid articulated structure in accordance with said stored position data. 2. A trainable modular robot as set forth in claim 1 wherein said fixed fasteners are positioned on each of said the body members such that said rigid articulated structure conforms to a cubic or tetrahedral crystal geometry. 3. A trainable modular robot as set forth in claim 1 wherein said each of said differently shaped passive modules in said selection exists in two different sizes. 4. A trainable modular robot as set forth in claim 3 wherein said two different sizes are proportioned in the scale ratio of 2 to 3 based on the Fibonacci relationship. 5. A trainable modular robot as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of said passive modules includes a fixed fastener located centrally on said body member for rigidly attaching said body member to another module that extends outwardly from said body member. 6. A trainable modular robot as set forth in claim 1 wherein said fixed fasteners are positioned on each of said the body members such that any two modules attached to a given module are aligned with one another at an angle of either 180, 108, or 90 degrees to form linear, heptagonal, or cubic structures respectively. 7. A trainable modular robot as set forth in claim 6 wherein said each of said differently shaped passive modules in said selection exists in two different sizes. 8. A trainable modular robot as set forth in claim 7 wherein said two different sizes are proportioned in the scale ratio of 2 to 3 based on the Fibonacci relationship. 9. A trainable modular robot as set forth in claim 8 wherein each of said passive modules includes a fixed fastener located centrally on said body member rigidly attaching said body member to another module that extends outwardly from said body member. 10. A trainable modular robot as set forth in claim 1 wherein each given one of said active module includes a peer-to-peer communications interface for accepting commands from another of said active modules, including one or more commands establishing a recording time interval during which the position sensor in said given one of said active modules acquires and stores said position data, and one or more further commands establishing a playback interval during which said controllable drive motor in said given one of said active modules moves said further module in accordance with said stored position data. 11. A construction set comprising components that can be connected together by fixed and movable joints to form an articulated assembly capable of movement, each of said fixed joints comprising fasteners for attaching two of said components together to form a rigid structure, and each of said movable joints comprising, in combination: fasteners for movably attaching two of said components together, a position sensor for detecting and storing sequential position data that specifies the relative movement of the two components connected by said movable joint during a recording interval, a controllable drive for moving said two components relative to one another during a playback interval subsequent to said recording interval to replicate the said relative movement of said two components as specified by said stored sequential position data, manually adjustable control means for modifying the operation of said controllable drive to vary the motion of said two components during said playback interval, and a peer-to-peer communications interface for exchanging command signals and sequential position data with other movable joints in said construction set. 12. A construction set as set forth in claim 11 wherein said means for adjusting the operation of said controllable drive varies the amplitude of the relative movement of said two components. 13. A construction set as set forth in claim 11 wherein said means for adjusting the operation of said controllable drive varies the speed of the relative movement of said two components. 14. A construction set as set forth in claim 11 wherein said means for adjusting the operation of said controllable drive varies the timing of said playback interval relative to the playback interval of other movable joints in said construction set. 15. A construction set as set forth in claim 11 wherein one of said movable joints transmits a start recording command to other movable joints via said peer-to-peer communications interface to initiate said recording interval for a plurality of said movable joints at substantially the same time. 16. A construction set as set forth in claim 11 wherein one of said movable joints transmits a start playback command to other movable joints via said peer-to-peer communications interface to initiate said playback interval for a plurality of said movable joints at substantially the same time. 17. A construction set as set forth in claim 16 wherein one of said movable joints transmits a start recording command to other movable joints via said peer-to-peer communications interface to initiate said recording interval for a plurality of said movable joints at substantially the same time. 18. A construction set as set forth in claim 11 wherein one of said movable joints transmits sequential position data command to other movable joints via said peer-to-peer communications interface whereby a plurality of said movable joints are conditioned to move in similar ways. 19. A construction set as set forth in claim 18 wherein said plurality of said movable joints are conditioned to move in similar ways but at different times. 20. A construction set as set forth in claim 18 wherein said plurality of said movable joints are conditioned to move in similar ways but at different speeds. 21. A construction set as set forth in claim 18 wherein said plurality of said movable joints are conditioned to move in similar ways but by different amplitudes. 22. Apparatus capable of programmed movement comprising, in combination, a plurality of substantially rigid sections connected together by movable motor-driven joints to form an articulated structure that may be manually manipulated to assume different shapes, a position sensor for producing motion specification data indicative of the motion of a first of said joints during a motion recording interval, and means for controlling all of said joints in said articulated structure to move in accordance with said motion specification data to simulate said motion of said first of said joints for all of said joints. 23. Apparatus capable of programmed movement as set forth in claim 22 wherein said means for controlling all of said joints includes means for controlling said joints to move at different times. 24. Apparatus capable of programmed movement as set forth in claim 22 wherein said means for controlling all of said joints includes means for controlling said joints to move at different speeds. 25. Apparatus capable of programmed movement as set forth in claim 22 wherein said means for controlling all of said joints includes means for controlling said joints to move by different amounts. 26. Apparatus capable of programmed movement as set forth in claim 22 wherein at least some of said rigid sections consist of a plurality of parts connected together by fixed fasteners. 27. Apparatus capable of programmed movement as set forth in claim 26 wherein each of said parts is selected from an available collection of parts of different shapes, including straight, T-shaped, L-shaped or shaped with at least one 108 degree bend, for forming sections having cubic or tetrahedronal crystal structures. 