Systems, methods, compositions and apparatus relating to genome selection are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: one or more at least partially isolated first sources of one or more male germ line haploid genomes; one or more monitoring units operable to detect one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes; one or more computing units operable to receive one or more inputs, the one or more inputs including data representative of one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes; one or more controller units operable to select one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more female germ line genomes. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more computing units are further operable to determine one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes to select at least partially based on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more female germ line genomes. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more computing units are further operable to determine one or more of the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on the detected one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more computing units are operable to determine the one or more male germ line haploid genomes to select at least partially based on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more computing units are operable to determine the one or more male germ line haploid genomes to select at least partially based on a weighted analysis of the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more computing units are operable to determine the one or more male germ line haploid genomes to select at least partially based on a weighted analysis of the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more female germ line genomes. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more at least partially isolated first sources are further operable to receive one or more inputs. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the one or more inputs include one or more of one or more female germ line genomes, one or more male germ line genomes, or one or more probes. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further including one or more third sources of one or more female germ line genomes. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: one or more hybridization units operable to co-localize one or more probes with one or more nucleic acids of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the one or more hybridization units are further operable to co-localize the one or more probes with the one or more nucleic acids of the one or more female germ line genomes. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more controller units are operable to select one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more monitoring units are further operable to detect the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more female germ line genomes. 14. An apparatus comprising: one or more computing units operable to receive one or more inputs, the one or more inputs including data representative of one or more genetic characteristics of one or more at least partially isolated female germ line genomes; and one or more controller units operable to select one or more at least partially isolated male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more at least partially isolated female germ line genomes. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising: one or more characterization units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more at least partially isolated male germ line haploid genomes. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising: one or more characterization units operable to determine the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more at least partially isolated female germ line genomes. 17. An apparatus comprising: one or more at least partially isolated first sources of one or more male germ line haploid genomes; one or more monitoring units operable to detect one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes; one or more computing units operable to receive one or more inputs, the one or more inputs including data representative of one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes; and operable to determine the one or more male germ line haploid genomes to select at least partially based on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more female germ line genomes. 