A system for planning transplantation of follicular units in a body surface of a patient includes a user interface comprising a software-controlled processor, a monitor, and an input device, wherein the system is configured for acquiring images of the body surface, processing the images to produce a three-dimensional model of the body surface, displaying a graphic rendering of the body surface model on the monitor, and displaying on the body surface model a proposed recipient area for implanting follicular units based at least in part on an actual or desired physical characteristic of the patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for creating a plan for cosmetic transplantation of hair follicular units in a body surface, comprising: a user interface including a software-controlled processor and a user input device, wherein the processor is configured to display a three-dimensional model of the body surface, and to generate and display on the model a proposed front hair line curve, and wherein follicular unit implantation locations of the hair line curve and hair follicle orientations of the hair line curve are automatically generated based on specified control points and orientations at the control points. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to allow a user to interactively adjust any of the control point locations and/or orientations to thereby correspondingly adjust the proposed hair line curve. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein interactively adjusting comprises using a click and drag motion of the input device. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein control points are user selected, automatically generated, or a combination of both. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein follicular unit implantation locations and/or orientations of the hair line curve are generated from the control points using cubic interpolation techniques. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to allow a user to interactively adjust one or more of a respective density, direction, implant depth, degree of randomization, or overall appearance of the follicular units in the proposed follicular unit implantation locations. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein a number of the specified control points is a small fraction of the proposed follicular unit implantation locations. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine and display on the model proposed additional follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations arranged in a configuration of one or more additional hair lines substantially replicating the front hair line curve. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the system is configured to allow a user to specify the number of times the hair line is replicated. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to generate a proposed boundary of a hair patch area based on hair patch boundary control points. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to determine and display on the model proposed additional follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations within an interior of the hair patch area defined by the boundary in accordance with one or more user-specified parameters. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein any of the proposed follicular unit implantation locations and orientations are based at least in part on an attribute of existing follicular units in an identified donor area of the body surface and selected from the group comprising a mix of type of follicular unit, a quantity of each type of follicular unit, a relative coarseness of hair follicles growing from the follicular units, a direction of hair follicles growing from the follicular units, a color of hair follicles growing from the follicular units, and a randomness of the follicular units. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the additional follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations within the interior of the hair patch area are determined at least in part based on specified hair patch control points. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to display on the body surface model a proposed boundary of a donor area for harvesting follicular units, and wherein the proposed donor area boundary is originally determined, subsequently modified, or both, based on input received via the user input device. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the proposed donor area boundary is determined based at least in part on one or more of an amount of each of a type of existing follicular unit available for harvesting from the donor area, an amount of each of a type of existing follicular unit to be implanted, or a minimum density of follicular units to be left remaining in the donor area after selected harvesting of other follicular units. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the model of the body surface further comprises additional features specific to hair follicles that are derived from the images, input through the user interface, or both. 17. A system for creating a plan for cosmetic transplantation of hair follicular units in a body surface, comprising: a user interface including a software-controlled processor and a user input device, wherein: the processor is configured to display a three-dimensional model of the body surface, and to generate and display on the model a proposed boundary curve having follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations, the follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations of the boundary curve are based on specified control points and orientations at the control points; and the user interface is configured to allow a user to adjust a location and/or an orientation of at least one of the control points to cause the processor to generate and display an adjusted proposed boundary curve, wherein 1) if the location of the control point is adjusted, more than one of the follicular implantation locations is adjusted, or 2) if the orientation of the control point is adjusted, the orientation of more than one of the hair follicles is adjusted. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the control points are user selected, automatically generated, or a combination of both. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the hair follicle orientations and/or follicular unit implantation locations are generated from the control points using cubic interpolation techniques. 20. The system of claim 17, wherein the plan is inputted using a storage device, or a remote server. 21. The system of claim 17, wherein the processor is further configured to process images of the body surface to generate the three-dimensional model. 22. The system of claim 17, wherein the proposed follicular unit implantation locations are randomized. 23. The system of claim 17, wherein the proposed follicular unit implantation locations are calculated analytically, or obtained using a graphical construction technique. 24. The system of claim 17, wherein the proposed follicular unit implantation locations are generated using a modified interpolated curve construction. 25. The system of claim 17, wherein the processor is configured to display on the body surface model a graphic rendering of hair follicles growing from planned follicular unit implantation locations. 26. The system of claim 17, wherein at least one of the proposed follicular unit implantation locations and/or at least one of the hair follicle orientations is generated using a Bezier, Cardinal spline, or b-spline interpolation technique. 27. The system of claim 17, wherein the user interface is further configured to display one or more input menus for receiving user inputs through the user input device for determining and adjusting the boundary curve and one or more proposed hair recipient areas. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the one or more user-interface input menus include a hair design menu, and at least one of a hair donor menu and a hair finalize menu. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the hair design menu is configured to receive user inputs relating to one or more of: boundary curve planning, hair recipient area planning, and a user-selected request for the system to automatically generate one or both of a planned boundary curve, and a planned hair recipient area. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the processor is configured to generate and display on the model proposed follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations based on user inputs received via respective boundary curve planning and hair recipient area planning menus. 31. The system of claim 28, wherein the hair design menu is configured to receive user inputs relating to donor area planning, including a user-selected request for the system to automatically generate a planned donor area. 32. The system of claim 27, wherein the one or more input menus comprises a hair finalize menu, the hair finalize menu is configured to receive user inputs relating to one or more of saving, transmitting, receiving and reviewing a completed or partially completed transplantation procedure plan. 33. The system of claim 27, wherein the boundary curve and/or the one or more proposed hair recipient areas are planned with respect to global landmarks. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein the global landmarks comprise existing hairs, tattoos, or other distinguishing features. 35. The system of claim 27, wherein the system is configured to determine a type of an existing follicular unit in a donor area of interest, and wherein determining and adjusting takes into consideration the determined type and/or an amount of each type of the existing follicular units in the donor area of interest. 36. The system of claim 17, wherein the proposed boundary curve comprises a front hair line. 37. The system of claim 17, wherein the proposed boundary curve comprises a boundary of a hair patch area. 38. The system of claim 17, wherein the location and/or the orientation of the at least one of the control points is adjusted by using a click and drag motion of the input device. 39. The system of claim 17, wherein the processor is configured to determine additional proposed follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations in one or more hair recipient areas. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein the system is configured to allow the user to interactively adjust one or more of a respective density, direction, implant depth, degree of randomization, or overall appearance of the follicular units in any of the proposed follicular unit implantation locations. 