An improved sterile drape, system, and method for draping portions of a telerobotic surgical system are provided. In one embodiment, a sterile drape includes an exterior surface adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure, and an interior surface forming a cavity for receiving the non-sterile portion of a robotic surgical system, such as a manipulator. The drape further includes a fastener coupled to the exterior surface for securing the sterile drape to the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system while reducing the volume of the sterile drape. Advantageously, the drape allows for quick and simple installation and increases visualization of the patient by reducing the size of the drape with more form fitting features, while allowing for freedom of movement of the manipulator.
Claims We claim: 1. A sterile drape to cover a non-sterile portion of a robotic surgical system, the sterile drape comprising: an exterior surface adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; an interior surface forming a cavity for receiving the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system; an integral cuff including a permanently turned-up fold of the exterior and interior surfaces at an open end of the cavity and a marker on the permanently turned-up fold designating a sterile side and a non-sterile side of the drape; and a fastener coupled to the exterior surface for securing the sterile drape to the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system for reducing the volume of the cavity formed by the sterile drape. 2. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the exterior surface includes a peel-and-stick patch. 3. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the drape is comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polyurethane, and polycarbonate. 4. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the cavity receives the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system selected from the group consisting of a monitor, a manipulator arm, and an endoscope camera manipulator arm. 5. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the exterior surface and the interior surface of the drape is couplable to another drape portion. 6. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the fastener includes malleable strips and straps. 7. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the exterior and interior surfaces include a window for positioning adjacent to a monitor screen. 8. The sterile drape of claim 7, wherein the window has a static charge. 9. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the exterior and interior surfaces include an instrument sterile adaptor for engaging a surgical tool and the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system, the sterile adaptor being configured to transfer signals between the surgical tool and the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system. 10. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the exterior and interior surfaces include a venting portion. 11. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the open end further includes a purse string. 12. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the open end further includes a tear strip. 13. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the integral cuff includes a visual marker. 14. A sterile drape comprising: an exterior surface adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; an interior surface forming a cavity for receiving a manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system; an integral cuff including a permanently turned-up fold of the exterior and interior surfaces at an open end of the cavity and a marker on the permanently turned-up fold designating a sterile side and a non-sterile side of the drape; and a plurality of fasteners on the exterior surface for securing the sterile drape to the manipulator arm. 15. The drape of claim 14, wherein the exterior surface includes a peel-and-stick patch. 16. The drape of claim 14, wherein the exterior and interior surfaces are comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polyurethane, and polycarbonate. 17. The drape of claim 14, wherein the plurality of fasteners include malleable strips and straps. 18. The drape of claim 14, wherein the exterior and interior surfaces include a window for positioning adjacent to a monitor screen. 19. The drape of claim 18, wherein the window has a static charge. 20. The drape of claim 14, wherein the exterior and interior surfaces include an instrument sterile adaptor, the sterile adaptor being configured to transfer signals between a surgical tool and the manipulator arm of the robotic surgical system. 21. The drape of claim 14, wherein the exterior and interior surfaces include a venting portion. 22. A method of draping a robotic surgical system, the method comprising: providing a sterile drape including: an exterior surface adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; an interior surface forming a cavity for receiving a non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system; an integral cuff including a permanently turned-up fold of the exterior and interior surfaces at an open end of the cavity and a marker on the permanently turned-up fold designating a sterile side and a non-sterile side of the drape; and a fastener for securing the sterile drape to the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system; positioning the open end at a portion of the robotic surgical system; holding the integral cuff to unfold the sterile drape over the portion of the robotic surgical system; and securing the sterile drape to the portion of the robotic surgical system using the fastener. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising coupling an instrument sterile adaptor integrated with the sterile drape to a manipulator arm of the robotic surgical system. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising positioning a window and a venting portion of the sterile drape proximate a monitor of the robotic surgical system. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising unfolding the sterile drape such that the window is not creased or folded. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the window is positioned adjacent to a monitor screen via static charge. 