A flexible gripping device including a plurality of pneumatic actuator rings. A grasper element is disposed within the plurality of pneumatic actuator rings and adapted to move back and forth within the actuator rings.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flexible gripping device comprising: a plurality of pneumatic actuator rings; a grasper element disposed within the plurality of pneumatic actuator rings and adapted to move back and forth within the actuator rings; means for sequentially activating the plurality of actuator rings to produce a peristaltic motion that moves the grasper element back and forth within the actuator rings, wherein the plurality of actuator rings are disposed in parallel relation to each other and are secured to each other to form a tubular device with a central interior through which the grasper element moves back and forth; means to actuate the actuator rings to move the grasper element forwards or backwards relative to the central interior of the tubular device; and means for returning the grasper element to an initial resting position in the central interior of the tubular device if the actuator rings are not actuated. 2. The gripping device of claim 1, including: means of connecting each of the actuator rings to an adjacent ring so that each of the actuator rings remain in contact with adjacent rings as any ring expands or contracts whereby each ring may expand in volume and occupy part of the central interior so as to exert force on the grasper element. 3. The gripping device of claim 1 wherein the means for returning the grasper element is an elastic band attached to the grasper element and to a substrate for constraining the grasper element to rotate and for pulling the grasper element back to the initial resting position. 4. The flexible gripping device of claim 1, further including: means of sensing at least one physical property encountered by the grasper element; and means of controlling the gripping device in response to the at least one physical property encountered by the grasper element. 5. The flexible gripping device of claim 4, wherein the means of controlling the gripping device further includes: means for responding to changes in the at least one physical property encountered by the grasper element by altering the duration or intensity of protraction or retraction of the grasper element or opening or closing of the grasper element. 6. The flexible gripping device of claim 4, wherein the means of sensing the at least one physical property includes at least one of a pressure sensor, a temperature sensor, and a chemical sensor. 7. The flexible gripping device of claim 1, wherein the pneumatic actuator ring includes a plurality of actuator sections. 8. A flexible gripping device comprising: a plurality of pneumatic actuator rings; and a grasper element disposed within the plurality of pneumatic actuator rings and adapted to move back and forth within the actuator rings; wherein the grasper element comprises: a generally spherically shaped, elastomeric element; a first cleft shaped opening extending from a peripheral surface towards the interior of the elastomeric element; a second cleft shaped opening extending from an opposite side of the peripheral surface towards the interior of the elastomeric element; means within the second cleft shaped opening to provide a passive closing force; and at least one pneumatic actuator disposed across the second cleft shaped opening and attached at opposite ends of the actuator to the peripheral surface for opening the second cleft shaped opening and simultaneously closing the first cleft shaped opening so as to enable them to grasp a material to be moved. 9. The gripping device of claim 8, wherein the means to provide a passive closing force is a spring. 10. The gripping device of claim 8, wherein: the first cleft shaped opening is a generally wedge shaped opening of an angle of between about 5.degree. to about 45'; and the second cleft shaped opening is a generally wedge shaped opening that is substantially identical to the first generally wedge shaped opening. 11. A flexible gripping device comprising: a plurality of pneumatic actuator rings; and a grasper element disposed within the plurality of pneumatic actuator rings and adapted to move back and forth within the actuator rings; wherein the grasper element comprises: a generally ellipsoid shaped element with a groove having a flat bottom surface formed around the circumference of the ellipsoid shaped element; a pair of inflatable tubular actuators disposed in the groove and spaced from each other; means to inflate the tubular actuators so that they expand radially and press against each other to enable a material to be grasped and moved. 12. The gripping device of claim 11, wherein the grasper element includes means for securing the pair of inflatable tubular actuators disposed in the groove. 13. The gripping device of claim 11, wherein the groove in the grasper element is disposed parallel to the minor axis of the generally ellipsoid shaped element. 14. The gripping device of claim 11, further including: means of returning the grasper element to an initial resting position if the actuator rings are not actuated. 