A sterile adaptor, a sterile drape with the integrated sterile adaptor, and a telerobotic surgical system including the sterile drape with a drape interface are provided. The adaptor, drape, and system allow for draping portions of a telerobotic surgical system to maintain a sterile barrier between the sterile surgical field and the non-sterile robotic system while also providing an interface for transferring mechanical and electrical energy and signals between a robotic arm and a surgical instrument in the sterile field.
Claims We claim: 1. A sterile adaptor, comprising: an exterior surface operably coupled to a sterile surgical instrument in a sterile field; an interior surface operably coupled to a non-sterile manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system; and a drape interface having a flexing drape material positioned between an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm, the flexing drape material transmitting torque from the manipulator arm input to the surgical instrument input through the flexing drape material. 2. The adaptor of claim 1, wherein the exterior surface includes retaining structures forming a wedge shape narrowing from a proximal end to a distal end. 3. The adaptor of claim 1, wherein the drape interface is capable of receiving an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm. 4. The adaptor of claim 1, wherein the drape interface includes two rings with the flexing drape material therebetween. 5. The adaptor of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of drape interfaces for each receiving an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm. 6. The adaptor of claim 5, further comprising a retractor plate including the plurality of drape interfaces. 7. The adaptor of claim 6, wherein the retractor plate includes a top plate and a bottom plate with the flexing drape material therebetween. 8. The adaptor of claim 1, further comprising an electrical contact for passing electrical signals between the manipulator arm and the surgical instrument. 9. A sterile adaptor, comprising: an exterior surface for operably coupling to a sterile surgical instrument in a sterile field; an interior surface for operably coupling to a non-sterile manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system; and a drape interface having a flexing drape material positionable between an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm, the flexing drape material configured to allow torque transmission from the manipulator arm input to the surgical instrument input through the flexing drape material, wherein the drape interface includes a rotating disk with an indent for receiving the input of the surgical instrument. 10. A sterile drape to cover a non-sterile portion of a robotic surgical system, the sterile drape comprising: an exterior surface adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; an interior surface receiving the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system; and a sterile adaptor interfacing between a non-sterile manipulator arm of the robotic surgical system and a surgical instrument in the sterile field, the sterile adaptor including a drape interface having a flexing drape material positioned between an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm, the flexing drape material transmitting torque from the manipulator arm input to the surgical instrument input through the flexing drape material. 11. The sterile drape of claim 10, wherein the drape is comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polyurethane, polycarbonate, and similar elastic durable materials. 12. The sterile drape of claim 10, wherein the exterior surface and the interior surface are vacuum formed as part of a larger drape or are formed as a separate molded portion. 13. The sterile drape of claim 10, wherein the drape interface is capable of receiving an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator aim. 14. The sterile drape of claim 10, wherein the drape interface includes two attached rings to retain a drape section therebetween. 15. The sterile drape of claim 10, wherein the sterile adaptor includes a plurality of drape interfaces for each receiving an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm. 16. The sterile drape of claim 10, wherein the sterile adaptor includes an electrical contact for interfacing with an electrical contact on the manipulator arm and with an electrical contact on the surgical instrument. 17. A sterile drape to cover a non-sterile portion of a robotic surgical system, the sterile drape comprising: an exterior surface adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; an interior surface for receiving the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system; and a sterile adaptor for interfacing between a non-sterile manipulator arm of the robotic surgical system and a surgical instrument in the sterile field, the sterile adaptor including a drape interface having a flexing drape material positionable between an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm, the flexing drape material configured to allow torque transmission from the manipulator arm input to the surgical instrument input through the flexing drape material, wherein the drape interface includes a rotating disk with an indent for receiving an input of the surgical instrument. 18. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field, the system comprising: a manipulator arm in a non-sterile field; a surgical instrument in the sterile field; and a sterile drape covering the manipulator arm to shield the manipulator arm from the sterile field, the sterile drape including a drape interface having a flexing drape material positioned between an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm, the flexing drape material transmitting torque from the manipulator arm input to the surgical instrument input through the flexing drape material. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the manipulator arm is a patient side manipulator arm or an endoscope camera manipulator arm. 20. The system of claim 18, wherein the drape is comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polyurethane, and polycarbonate. 21. The system of claim 18, wherein the surgical instrument is selected from the group consisting of articulated tools with end effectors, such as jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, and clip appliers, and non-articulated tools, such as cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 22. The system of claim 18, wherein the drape interface is capable of receiving an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm. 23. The system of claim 18, wherein the drape interface includes two attached rings to retain a drape section therebetween. 24. The system of claim 18, wherein the sterile drape includes a plurality of drape interfaces for each receiving an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm. 25. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field, the system comprising: a manipulator arm in a non-sterile field; a surgical instrument in the sterile field; and a sterile drape covering the manipulator arm to shield the manipulator arm from the sterile field, the sterile drape including a drape interface having a flexing drape material positionable between an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator anm the flexing drape material configured to allow torque transmission from the manipulator arm input to the surgical instrument input through the flexing drape material, wherein the drape interface includes a rotating disk with an indent for receiving an input of the surgical instrument. 