The present invention concerns a method and an apparatus for automatic staining of at least one tissue sample accommodated on a slide by applying reagents. The system may include at least one slide provided in a slide rack, a fluid containment element, a slide holder, a vertical slide positioner to pivot the slides to a vertical position, and a slide immerser element to immerse the vertical slide into a fluid containment element or even a dip tank. By pivoting the slides from a horizontal to a vertical position, an automated method and apparatus for carrying out a pretreatment in an automated staining apparatus may be provided. The pivoting of slides may ensure an appropriate orientation of the slides for both the pretreatment and the staining processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic stainer system for staining at least one tissue sample, comprising: at least one slide having said at least one tissue sample disposed thereon; at least one reagent; at least one fluid containment element containing fluid for application to said at least one tissue sample during at least one pre-treatment operation performed on said at least one tissue sample prior to a staining operation; a slide rack including said at least one slide having said at least one tissue sample disposed thereon, said slide rack further including a slide positioner element adapted to rotate said at least one slide between a substantially vertical disposition for submerging said at least one slide into said fluid in said fluid containment element and a substantially horizontal disposition for application of said at least one reagent onto said at least one tissue sample; a slide elevator for lowering said slide rack when said slide is substantially vertically disposed, and submerging said at least one slide into said fluid containment element, said slide remaining vertically disposed when submerged; and a reagent application element adapted to apply said at least one reagent to said at least one tissue sample during a staining operation performed on said at least one tissue sample when said at least one slide is disposed substantially horizontally. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one reagent comprises at least two reagents arranged in a sequence according to a staining protocol. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one pre-treatment operation comprises removal of an embedding medium from said at least one tissue sample. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one pre-treatment operation comprises target retrieval. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one pre-treatment operation comprises both target retrieval and removal of an embedding medium from said at least one tissue sample. 6. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: a drawer assembly adapted to retract from said system, wherein said drawer assembly comprises the slide rack. 7. The system according to claim 6, wherein said drawer assembly is adapted to cooperate with said fluid containment element. 8. The system according to claim 7, wherein said drawer assembly comprises a plurality of said drawer assemblies, each adapted to cooperate with said fluid containment element, at least one transfer tank, a supply tank, and at least one waste tank. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein said fluid containment element comprises a heating member. 10. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: a pneumatic element adapted to transfer liquid from a supply tank to a transfer tank and from said transfer tank to said fluid containment element; and a drain element adapted to remove liquid from said fluid containment element to said transfer tank and from said transfer tank to a waste collection tank. 11. An automatic stainer system for staining at least one tissue sample, comprising: at least one slide having said at least one tissue sample disposed thereon; at least one reagent; at least one fluid containment element containing fluid for application to said at least one tissue sample during at least one pre-treatment operation performed on said at least one tissue sample prior to a staining operation, wherein said at least one pre-pretreatment operation is chosen from the group consisting of target retrieval and deparaffinization; a slide rack including said at least one slide having said at least one tissue sample disposed thereon, said slide rack further including a slide positioner element adapted to rotate said at least one slide between a substantially vertical disposition for submerging said at least one slide into said fluid in said fluid containment element and a substantially horizontal disposition for application of said at least one reagent onto said at least one tissue sample; a slide elevator for lowering said slide rack when said slide is substantially vertically disposed, and submerging said at least one slide into said fluid containment element, said slide remaining vertically disposed when submerged; and a reagent application element adapted to apply said at least one reagent to said at least one tissue sample during a staining operation performed on said at least one tissue sample when said at least one slide is disposed substantially horizontally. 12. The automatic stainer system according to claim 11, wherein the fluid containment element comprises a dip tank. 13. The automatic stainer system according to claim 11, wherein said fluid containment element comprises a heating member adapted to heat the at least one fluid. 