Efficient static neutralization of an electrostatically charged object that has a varying distance from an ion generating source, a varying velocity, a large dimension or any these is achieved by using an ionizing cell or bar having a first electrode and a second electrode. The first electrode for receiving a multi-frequency voltage that has a waveform, and the second electrode separated from the first electrode by a first distance and for use as a reference electrode. The waveform is adjusted during neutralization of a moving object based on at least one attribute of the object.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for neutralizing a moving electro-statically charged object, comprising: a power supply having an output for providing a multi-frequency voltage having a waveform, said power supply disposed to generate said multi-frequency voltage by at least using a first component voltage having a first waveform and a second component voltage having a second waveform; an ionizing cell having a first electrode and a second electrode, said first electrode for receiving said multi-frequency voltage, and said second electrode separated from said first electrode by a first distance and for use as a reference electrode; and wherein, said waveform is adjusted for neutralization of a moving object based on at least one attribute of said object, and said first waveform differs from said second waveform. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first component voltage oscillates at a frequency of at least 2 kHz and said second component voltage oscillates at a frequency of no more than 500 Hz. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said object is a web wound onto a winding roll of a winding machine, said winding machine having at least one sensor; and wherein said power supply is integrated with a control module for receiving information from said sensors and for adjusting said multi-frequency voltage in response to said information. 4. The apparatus of 1, wherein said at least one attribute includes a velocity of said object. 5. The apparatus of 1, wherein said at least one attribute includes a distance from a portion of said object to said ionizing cell. 6. An apparatus for neutralizing a moving electro-statically charged object, said charged object having an object velocity, comprising: a power supply having an output for providing a multi-frequency voltage, said power supply disposed to generate said multi-frequency voltage by at least using a first component voltage having a first waveform, and a second component voltage having a second waveform, said first waveform differs from said second waveform; an ionizing cell having a first electrode and a second electrode, said first electrode for receiving said multi-frequency voltage, and said second electrode separated from said first electrode by a first distance and for use as a reference electrode; wherein, in response to the application of said multi-frequency voltage to said first electrode, said multi-frequency voltage creates an oscillating ion cloud having positive ions and negative ions upon reaching a corona onset voltage threshold of said ionizing cell; and said multi-frequency voltage redistributes said positive and negative ions into separate regions when said multi-frequency voltage creates a polarizing electrical field; and wherein said polarizing electrical field has an electric field strength that varies relative to a second distance between said ionizing cell and the charged object. 7. The apparatus of 6, wherein said polarizing electrical field oscillates at a frequency relative to the object velocity and said second distance. 8. The apparatus of 6, wherein said polarizing electrical field oscillates at a frequency relative to the object velocity. 9. An apparatus for neutralizing a moving electro-statically charged object, said charged object having an object velocity, comprising: a power supply having an output for providing a multi-frequency voltage, said power supply disposed to generate said multi-frequency voltage by at least using a first component voltage having a first waveform, and a second component voltage having a second waveform, said first waveform differs from said second waveform; an ionizing cell having a first electrode and a second electrode, said first electrode for receiving said multi-frequency voltage, and said second electrode separated from said first electrode by a first distance and coupled to ground; wherein, in response to the application of said multi-frequency voltage to said first electrode, said multi-frequency voltage creates an oscillating ion cloud having positive ions and negative ions upon reaching a corona onset voltage threshold of said ionizing cell; and said multi-frequency voltage redistributes said positive and negative ions into separate regions when said multi-frequency voltage creates a polarizing electrical field of sufficient strength; and wherein said polarizing electrical field oscillates at a frequency relative to the object velocity. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said strength varies relative to a second distance between said ionizing cell and the charged object. 11. The apparatus of 10, wherein said polarizing electrical field oscillates at a frequency relative to the object velocity and said second distance. 12. An apparatus for neutralizing a moving electro-statically charged object, said charged object having an object velocity, comprising: an ionizing cell having a first electrode and a second electrode, said first electrode for receiving a multi-frequency voltage, and said second electrode separated from said first electrode by a first distance and coupled to a reference voltage; a power supply having a summing block that creates said multi-frequency voltage by adding a first alternating voltage component and a second alternating voltage component, said first alternating voltage component having a first voltage amplitude and a first frequency, and said second alternating voltage component having a second voltage amplitude and a second frequency, wherein said first frequency differs from said second frequency; and wherein, in response to the application of said multi-frequency voltage to said first electrode, said multi-frequency voltage creates an oscillating ion cloud having positive ions and negative ions upon reaching a corona onset voltage threshold of said ionizing cell; and said multi-frequency voltage redistributes said positive and negative ions into separate regions when said multi-frequency voltage creates a polarizing electrical field. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said second voltage amplitude is relative to a second distance between said ionizing cell and the charged object. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said second voltage amplitude is selected according to the following equation: U(t)=k1*X where U(t) is said second voltage amplitude, k1 is a constant coefficient defined by a selected set of physical characteristics of said ionizing cell, and X is a second distance of the charged object from said ionizing cell. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said second distance is calculated from a surface of the charged object to an electrode surface of said ionizing cell. 16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said second frequency is relative to the object velocity. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said second frequency is further relative to a second distance, said second distance between said ionizing cell and the charged object. 18. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said second voltage frequency is selected according to the following equation: F(t)=k2*S/X where F(t) is said second voltage frequency, k2 is a constant coefficient defined by a selected set of physical characteristics of said ionizing cell and a set of environmental characteristics in which said ionizing cell is used, S is the object velocity and X is a second distance of the charged object from said ionizing cell. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said set of environmental characteristics includes ion cloud travel time and further including a third electrode coupled to a reference voltage. 20. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said reference voltage is equal to ground. 