A method of precision surface re-profiling of a composite polymeric component comprising a region capable of being re-profiled, comprising the steps of locating the polymeric composite component with a formable surface relative to a supporting fixture, the thickness of component comprising the formable surface being greater than the desired final thickness in a region to be re-profiled, moving a forming head into position into contact with the formable surface of the composite component with the aid of precision location or measurement sensors, causing the formable surface of the component to flow under the tool and creating a precisely defined local thickness or profile of component under the forming tool, and moving the forming head along the region of the component to be re-profiled, while maintaining the forming tool at a predetermined height profile or while leaving the re-profiled component with a predetermined thickness profile.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of surface re-profiling of the surface of a polymeric composite component comprising a formable surface with a region to be re-profiled to a predetermined local height with an accuracy of +/-200 microns, comprising the steps of: a) locating the polymeric composite component with a formable surface in a fixed position on a supporting fixture during re-profiling, the thickness of composite component comprising the formable surface being greater than a predetermined final thickness in the region to be re-profiled; b) moving a heatable forming tool into position into contact with the formable surface of the composite component with the aid of location or measurement sensors, heating the formable surface of the composite component during contact with the forming tool and causing the formable surface of the component to flow under the tool and creating a defined local thickness or profile of the component under the forming tool as the tool moves across the region to be re-profiled on the formable surface; and c) moving the forming tool with the use of location or measurement sensors along the region of the component to be re-profiled, while maintaining the forming tool at a predetermined height profile or while leaving the re-profiled component with a predetermined thickness profile, to form a re-profiled surface. 2. The method according to claim 1, where the formable surface comprises a heat-setting material. 3. The method according to claim 1, where the formable surface comprises a heat-softening material or a heat-melting material. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising heating the formable surface of the composite component prior to, during or both prior to and during re-profiling of the surface. 5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising cooling the re-profiled surface of the composite component during or after re-profiling of the surface. 6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising measuring the position of the forming tool. 7. The method according to claim 2, where the heat-setting material comprises more than 50% of a thermosetting polymer. 8. The method according to claim 3, where the heat-softening material comprises more than 50% of a thermoplastic polymer. 9. The method according to claim 1, where a release agent or other material is located between the forming tool and the re-profiled surface. 10. The method according to claim 1, where the surface is re-profiled to an accuracy of .+-.50 microns. 11. An apparatus for surface re-profiling of a region of a composite component to a predetermined local height with an accuracy of +/-200 microns, the region comprising a formable surface and having a thickness greater than a predetermined final thickness, the apparatus comprising: a supporting fixture to locate the composite component in a fixed position; a forming tool for contacting with and moving across the formable surface, the forming tool comprising a heating means to cause the formable surface in the path of the tool to flow as the forming tool progresses across the formable surface; an actuation system to position and move the forming tool; and a controller for controlling the actuation system in response to signals received from one or more location or measurement sensors to move and position the forming tool along a predetermined height profile or so as to leave the re-profiled component with a predetermined thickness profile, to form a re-profiled surface. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11, where the forming tool comprises shaped metal. 13. The apparatus according to claim 11, where the forming surface of the forming tool moves relative to the body of the forming tool. 14. The apparatus according to claim 13, where the forming surface of the forming tool is a roller or continuous foil. 15. The apparatus according to claim 11, where the forming tool includes an internal heater. 16. The apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising an external heater. 17. The apparatus according to claim 11, where the forming tool further comprises a cooling system to cool the re-profiled surface beneath or behind the forming tool. 18. The apparatus according to claim 11, where the forming tool is attached to an actuator. 19. The apparatus according to claim 11, where the measurement sensor is attached to or contained within the forming tool. 20. The apparatus according to claim 19, where the signal emanating from the sensor passes through the forming tool. 21. The apparatus according to claim 19, where the sensor performs an action selected from the group consisting of utilizing, generating, sensing and a combination of the preceding, of one or more than one of the following, laser light, ultrasonic signals, eddy currents and magnetic fields. 22. The apparatus according to claim 20, where the sensor performs an action selected from the group consisting of utilizing, generating, sensing and a combination of the preceding, of one or more than one of the following, laser light, ultrasonic signals, eddy currents and magnetic fields. 23. The apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising an actuation system to control the relative displacement of the forming tool with respect to a support fixture. 24. The apparatus according to claim 11, where the forming tool is attached to a robotic arm or gantry. 