A valve stem installation system (10) includes a conveyor (24) for moving wheel rims (14). A detector (50) is comparable with the conveyor (24) to detect size of the wheel rim (14) and a location of an aperture (12) of the wheel rim (14) to receive various valve stems (16, 18). Two robots (110, 112) are adaptable for matably moving the valve stem (16, 18) to the wheel rim (14). A controller (60) is operably communicated with the robots (110, 112) and the detector (50) for receiving a signal from the detector (50) as the detector (50) identifies configuration of the wheel rim (14) and then transmitting the signal to the robots (110, 112) thereby directing the robots (110, 112) to selectively engage the valve stem (16, 18) to be inserted into the aperture (12). An insertion tool (114) is connected to each robot (110, 112) to selectively engage the valve stem (16, 18) to interchangeably move and insert the valve stem (16, 18) into the aperture (12) in response to the signal received by the robot (110, 112) from the controller (60).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for selectively mating one of a valve stem and a pressure monitoring device (TPM) and assembling one of the valve stem and the TPM with a wheel rim having an aperture formed therein for receiving one of the valve stem and the TPM, said system comprising: a detector for identifying a configuration of the wheel rim; a robotic device having an insertion tool configured to install both the TPM and the valve stem and being adaptable for moving one of the valve stem and the TPM from a feeder to the wheel rim for mating one of the valve stem and the TPM to the wheel rim; a controller operably communicated with said robotic device and said detector for receiving a signal from said detector and transmitting said signal to said robotic device thereby directing said robotic device to selectively engage one of the valve stem and the TPM; and said insertion tool of said robotic device selectively engaging one of the valve stem or clamping the TPM as directed by said controller for inserting one of the valve stem the TPM into the aperture in response to said signal received by said robotic device from said controller. 2. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said robotic device is further defined by a pair of robots adjacent one and the other with each of said robots including a robot arm connected to a shoulder and multi-axially movable relative to one another and relative to the wheel rim. 3. A system as set forth in claim 2 wherein said insertion tool is operably connected to said robot arm. 4. A system as set forth in claim 3 wherein said insertion tool is further defined by a first inserting device and a second inserting device. 5. A system as set forth in claim 4 wherein said second inserting device is further defined by a pair of fingers pivotably movable towards one another for engaging the TPM at a first angle. 6. A system as set forth in claim 5 wherein said second inserting device includes a pinching link cooperable with said fingers and slidably movable in a direction different than pivotable direction of said fingers for supporting the TPM at a second angle thereby pinching the TPM into the aperture. 7. A system as set forth in claim 6 wherein said second inserting device includes an actuator to facilitate pivotable motion of said fingers and slidable motion of said pinching link relative to one another for engaging and disengaging the TPM. 8. A system as set forth in claim 7 wherein said second inserting device includes a nut runner associated with and slidably movable relative to said second inserting device for assembling a nut with the TPM. 9. A system as set forth in claim 4 wherein said first inserting device is further defined by a pin and a vacuum device fluidly communicated with said pin for engaging the valve stem with said pin, said vacuum device applying vacuum to said pin thereby preventing said pin from disengaging from the valve stem. 10. A system as set forth in claim 9 wherein said first inserting device includes at least one vacuum sensor communicating with said controller for controlling frictional engagement between said pin and the valve stem. 11. A system as set forth in claim 1 including a conveyance device for moving the wheel rims relative to said robotic device. 12. A system as set forth in claim 11 wherein said conveyance device is further defined by a plurality of modules aligned with respect to one another along said conveyance device. 13. A system as set forth in claim 12 wherein each of said modules includes a stopping device for preventing the wheel rim from moving along said conveyance device, said stopping device having at least one pin movable between an extended position and a retracted position for preventing the wheel rim from moving along said conveyance device. 14. A system for selectively mating one of a valve stem and a pressure monitoring device (TPM) and assembling one of the valve stem and the TPM with a wheel rim having an aperture formed therein for receiving one of the valve stem and the TPM, said system comprising: a robotic manipulator having an insertion tool, said insertion tool being capable of clasping either a valve stem or a TPM and being movable to a valve stem feeder and a TPM feeder thereby selectively clasping one of the valve stem and the TPM and moving one of the valve stem and the TPM from the valve stem feeder or the TPM feeder to the wheel rim; said insertion tool having a first opposing member and a second opposing member with said first opposing member being for receiving and securing the valve stem and said second opposing member having cooperating fingers being movable for clamping the TPM; and said robotic manipulator being programmable to selectively and interchangeably moving either the valve stem or the TPM to the wheel rim and mating valve stem or the TPM with the wheel rim. 15. A system as set forth in claim 14 wherein said robotic manipulator includes a robot arm connected to a shoulder multi-axially movable relative to one another and relative to the wheel rim. 16. A system as set forth in claim 15 wherein said first opposing member is further defined by a pin and a vacuum device fluidly communicated with said pin for engaging the valve stem with said pin. 17. A system as set forth in claim 16 wherein said pair of fingers of said second opposing member are pivotably movable towards one another for engaging the TPM at a first angle. 18. A system as set forth in claim 17 wherein said second opposing member includes a pinching link slidably movable in a direction different than said pair of fingers for supporting the TPM at a second angle and pinching the TPM into the aperture. 19. A system as set forth in claim 18 including a conveyance device for moving the wheel rims relative to said robotic manipulator and a plurality of modules aligned with respect to one another along said conveyance device. 20. A system for selectively engaging a valve stem and a pressure monitoring device (TPM) and assembling one of the valve stem and the TPM with a wheel rim having an aperture formed therein for receiving one of the valve stem and the TPM, said system comprising: a detector for identifying the wheel rim and locating a radial zone; a robotic device adaptable for detecting a location of the aperture in the wheel rim and matably moving one of the valve stem and the TPM to the wheel rim; a controller operably communicated with said robotic device and said detector for receiving a signal from said detector as said detector identifies configuration of the wheel rim and transmitting said signal to said robotic device thereby directing said robotic device to selectively engage one of the valve stem and the TPM; an insertion tool of said robotic device adaptable for selectively engaging the valve stem and clamping the TPM and moving the valve stem or the TPM from a feeder to the wheel in response to said signal received by said robotic device from said controller; and a locating device connected to said insertion tool for identifying a precise location of the aperture relative to the radial zone for signaling said insertion tool the precise location of the aperture enabling said insertion tool to interchangeably move and insert one of the valve stem and the TPM into the aperture. 21. A system as set forth in claim 20 wherein said locating device includes light emitters and light receivers corresponding to said light emitters for identifying the location of the aperture relative to the radial zone defined by the wheel rim. 22. A system as set forth in claim 21 wherein said robotic device is further defined by a pair of robots adjacent one and the other with each of said robots including a robot arm connected to a shoulder multi-axially movable relative to one another and relative to the wheel rim. 23. A system as set forth in claim 22 wherein said insertion tool is further defined by a first inserting device and a second inserting device. 24. A system as set forth in claim 23 including a nut runner associated with and slidably movable relative to said insertion tool for assembling a nut with the TPM thereby securing the TMP with the wheel rim. 25. A system as set forth in claim 24 wherein said first inserting device is further defined by a pin and a vacuum device fluidly communicated with said pin for engaging the valve stem with said pin with said vacuum device applying vacuum to said pin thereby preventing said pin from disengaging from the valve stem. 26. A system as set forth in claim 25 wherein said second inserting device is further defined by a pair of fingers pivotably movable towards one another for engaging the TPM at a first angle and a pinching link cooperable with said fingers and slidably movable in a direction different than pivotable direction of said fingers for supporting the TPM at a second angle thereby pinching the TPM into the aperture. 27. A system as set forth in claim 20 including a conveyance device for moving the wheel rims relative to said robotic device with said conveyance device including a plurality of modules aligned with respect to one another along said conveyance device, each of said modules including rollers for supporting and moving the wheel rims along said conveyance device. 28. A method of selectively mating one of a valve stem and a pressure monitoring device (TPM) and assembling one of the valve stem and the TPM a wheel rim having an aperture defined therein, said method comprising the steps of: identifying type of the wheel rim thereby determining if the wheel rim requires a valve stem or a TPM; identifying a location of the aperture defined by the wheel rim; rotating a robotic device relative to the wheel rim and matably moving one of the valve stem and the TPM to the wheel rim; associating a controller with the robotic device to receive a signal as the size of the wheel rim is identified and transmitting the signal to the robotic device to direct the robotic device to selectively engage one of the valve stem and the TPM; and selectively engaging the valve stem and the TPM by clamping the TPM as directed by the controller; interchangeably moving and inserting one of the valve stem and the TPM into the aperture in response to the signal received by the robotic device from the controller. 29. A method as set forth in claim 28 wherein the step of positioning of the robotic device is further defined by positioning a pair of robots adjacent one and the other with each of the robots including a shoulder and a robot arm multi-axially movable relative to one another and relative to the wheel rim. 30. A method as set forth in claim 29 further including the step of providing an insertion tool having a first inserting device a second inserting device. 31. A method as set forth in claim 30 wherein the step of providing the insertion tool is further defined by connecting a pin and a vacuum device fluidly communicated with the first inserting device to engage the valve stem with the pin and applying vacuum through the vacuum device to prevent the pin from disengaging from the valve stem. 32. A method as set forth in claim 31 wherein the step of providing the insertion tool is further defined by pivotably engaging a pair of fingers to a base portion of the second inserting device to engage the TPM at one angle. 33. A method as set forth in claim 32 wherein the step of connecting the inserting tool is further defined by connecting a pinching link to the base portion to move the pinching link in a direction different than direction of pivotable movement of the fingers to support the TPM at another angle and to pinch the TPM into the aperture. 34. A method as set forth in claim 33 including the step of connecting a nut runner to the second inserting device to assemble a nut with the TPM. 