Apparatus, systems, and methods for inspecting a structure are provided which permit inspection of uniquely shaped structures such as fuselage frames and shear ties. Probes may be constructed from rapid prototyping. Inspection may be performed manually and may use a portable function support system for delivering fluid couplant, controlling transmit and receive functions of the inspection sensors, and delivering immediate visual analysis for an operator. Integrated ultrasonic inspection apparatus, systems, and methods facilitate fast and efficient custom inspection devices and inspecting otherwise difficult-to-inspect structures.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A method of non-destructive inspection, comprising: supporting at least a first part of an inspection device and a second part of an inspection device on both a first portion of a structure and a second portion of the structure, wherein the first portion of the structure and the second portion of the structure are defined with a radius therebetween, wherein the first part is configured to pass over at least a first surface of the first portion of the structure and a first surface of the second portion of the structure, wherein the second part is configured to pass over at least a second surface of the first portion of the structure and a second surface of the second portion of the structure, wherein the first and second surfaces of the first portion of the structure are opposing surfaces, wherein the first and second surfaces of the second portion of the structure are opposing surfaces, wherein the first part comprises a first sensor holder defining a first recess for supporting and orienting a first ultrasonic inspection sensor at least partially disposed within the first recess and configured to inspect at least the first portion of the structure as the first and second parts of the inspection device are passed over at least the first portion of the structure and the second portion of the structure; passing the first part of the inspection device over at least the first surface of the first portion of the structure and the first surface of the second portion of the structure; passing the second part of the inspection device over at least the second surface of the first portion of the structure and the second surface of the second portion of the structure; and transmitting ultrasonic signals from the first ultrasonic inspection sensor to at least the first portion of the structure. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second part comprises a second sensor holder defining a second recess for supporting and orienting a second ultrasonic inspection sensor at least partially disposed within the second recess and configured to inspect at least the first portion of the structure as the first and second parts of the inspection device are passed over at least the first portion of the structure and the second portion of the structure; and further comprising receiving the ultrasonic signals, transmitted from the first ultrasonic inspection sensor and propagated through the first portion of the structure, at the second ultrasonic inspection sensor, wherein the inspection device is configured to maintain the first ultrasonic inspection sensor and the second ultrasonic inspection sensor in proper alignment and spacing to permit the second ultrasonic inspection sensor to receive the ultrasonic signals transmitted from the first ultrasonic inspection sensor and propagated through the first portion of the structure. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the inspection device is configured to inspect at least one of a fuselage frame flange and a fuselage frame web. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the inspection device is further configured to pull the second sensor holder against the second surface of the first portion of the structure. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the inspection device is configured to inspect a plurality of structures having radii of different sizes between the first portion of the structure and the second portion of the structure. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting a predefined structure in a computer program corresponding to the structure to be inspected by the inspection device. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting a predefined inspection device in a computer program corresponding to the inspection device to be used to inspect the structure. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first ultrasonic inspection sensor is a linear inspection sensor, and wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals from the first ultrasonic inspection sensor comprises transmitting ultrasonic signals over a planar length of the first ultrasonic inspection sensor. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first ultrasonic inspection sensor is a linear inspection sensor, and wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals from the first ultrasonic inspection sensor comprises transmitting ultrasonic signals in parallel through a plane, wherein the plane is parallel to the first portion of the structure. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first portion of the structure comprises a flat surface. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving the ultrasonic signals, transmitted from the first ultrasonic inspection and reflected from the first portion of the structure, at the first ultrasonic inspection sensor. 12. A method of non-destructive inspection, comprising: supporting at least a first part of an inspection device on both a first portion of a structure and a second portion of the structure, wherein the first portion of the structure and the second portion of the structure are defined with a radius therebetween, wherein the first part is configured to pass over at least a first surface of the first portion of the structure, a first surface of the second portion of the structure, and a first surface of the radius between the first and second portions of the structure, wherein a second part of the inspection device is configured to pass over at least a second surface of the first portion of the structure and a second surface of the second portion of the structure, wherein the first and second surfaces of the first portion of the structure are opposing surfaces, wherein the first and second surfaces of the second portion of the structure are opposing surfaces, wherein the first part comprises a first sensor holder defining a first recess for supporting and orienting a first ultrasonic inspection sensor at least partially disposed within the first recess and configured to inspect at least the first portion of the structure as the first and second parts of the inspection device are passed over the first portion of the structure, the second portion of the structure, and the radius between the first and second portions of the structure; passing the first part of the inspection device over the first surface of the first portion of the structure, the first surface of the second portion of the structure, and the first surface of the radius between the first and second portions of the structure; passing the second part of the inspection device over the second surface of the first portion of the structure and the second surface of the second portion of the structure; and transmitting ultrasonic signals from the first ultrasonic inspection sensor to at least the first portion of the structure. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the second part comprises a second sensor holder defining a second recess for supporting and orienting a second ultrasonic inspection sensor at least partially disposed within the second recess and configured to inspect at least the first portion of the structure as the first and second parts of the inspection device are passed over at least the first portion of the structure and the second portion of the structure; and further comprising receiving the ultrasonic signals, transmitted from the first ultrasonic inspection sensor and propagated through the first portion of the structure, at the second ultrasonic inspection sensor, wherein the inspection device is configured to maintain the first ultrasonic inspection sensor and the second ultrasonic inspection sensor in proper alignment and spacing to permit the second ultrasonic inspection sensor to receive the ultrasonic signals transmitted from the first ultrasonic inspection sensor and propagated through the first portion of the structure. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the inspection device is configured to inspect at least one of a fuselage frame flange and a fuselage frame web. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the inspection device is further configured to pull the second sensor holder against the second surface of the first portion of the structure. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the first sensor holder further defines a third recess for supporting and orienting a third ultrasonic inspection sensor at least partially disposed within the third recess and configured to inspect the radius between the first portion of the structure and the second portion of the structure as the first and second parts of the inspection device are passed over at least the first portion of the structure, the second portion of the structure, and the radius between the first and second portions of the structure, wherein the second sensor holder further defines a fourth recess for supporting and orienting a fourth ultrasonic inspection sensor at least partially disposed within the fourth recess and configured to inspect the radius between the first portion of the structure and the second portion of the structure as the first and second parts of the inspection device are passed over at least the first portion of the structure, the second portion of the structure, and the radius between the first and second portions of the structure, wherein the third recess and the fourth recess are radially directed at the radius; and further comprising: transmitting ultrasonic signals from the third ultrasonic inspection sensor to the radius between the first and second portions of the structure; and receiving the ultrasonic signals, transmitted from the third ultrasonic inspection sensor and propagated through the radius between the first and second portions of the structure, at the fourth ultrasonic inspection sensor, wherein the inspection device is configured to maintain the third ultrasonic inspection sensor and the fourth ultrasonic inspection sensor in proper alignment and spacing to permit the fourth ultrasonic inspection sensor to receive the ultrasonic signals transmitted from the third ultrasonic inspection sensor and propagated through the radius between the first and second portions of the structure. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the inspection device is further configured to maintain the third ultrasonic inspection sensor and the fourth ultrasonic inspection sensor at a fixed separation spacing. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein the inspection device is configured to inspect a plurality of structures having radii of different sizes between the first portion of the structure and the second portion of the structure. 19. The method of claim 12, further comprising selecting a predefined structure in a computer program corresponding to the structure to be inspected by the inspection device. 20. The method of claim 12, further comprising selecting a predefined inspection device in a computer program corresponding to the inspection device to be used to inspect the structure. 21. The method of claim 12, wherein the first ultrasonic inspection sensor is a linear inspection sensor, and wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals from the first ultrasonic inspection sensor comprises transmitting ultrasonic signals over a planar length of the first ultrasonic inspection sensor. 22. The method of claim 12, wherein the first ultrasonic inspection sensor is a linear inspection sensor, and wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals from the first ultrasonic inspection sensor comprises transmitting ultrasonic signals in parallel through a plane, wherein the plane is parallel to the first portion of the structure. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the first portion of the structure comprises a flat surface. 24. The method of claim 12, further comprising receiving the ultrasonic signals, transmitted from the first ultrasonic inspection and reflected from the first portion of the structure, at the first ultrasonic inspection sensor. 25. The method of claim 12, wherein the first part further comprises a first wing appendage for supporting the first part of the inspection device on the first portion of the structure, and wherein supporting the first part of the inspection device on the first portion of the structure comprises supporting the first wing appendage against the first portion of the structure. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the first part further comprises a second wing appendage for supporting the first part of the inspection device on the second portion of the structure, and wherein supporting the first part of the inspection device on the second portion of the structure comprises supporting the second wing appendage against the second portion of the structure. 27. The method of claim 25, wherein the second part further comprises a second wing appendage for supporting the second part of the inspection device on the first portion of the structure, and wherein supporting the second part of the inspection device on the first portion of the structure comprises supporting the second wing appendage against the first portion of the structure. 28. A method of non-destructive inspection, comprising: supporting an inspection device on both a first portion of a structure and a second portion of the structure, wherein the first portion of the structure and the second portion of the structure are defined with a radius therebetween, wherein the inspection device is configured to pass over the first portion of the structure, the second portion of the structure, and the radius between the first and second portions of the structure, wherein the inspection device comprises a sensor holder defining a first recess for supporting and orienting a first ultrasonic inspection sensor at least partially disposed within the recess and configured to inspect the radius between the first and second portions of the structure as the inspection device is passed over the first portion of the structure, the second portion of the structure, and the radius between the first and second portions of the structure, wherein the first recess is radially directed at the radius between the first and second portions of the structure; passing the inspection device over the first portion of the structure, the second portion of the structure, and the radius between the first and second portions of the structure; transmitting ultrasonic signals from the first ultrasonic inspection sensor to at least the radius between the first and second portions of the structure; and receiving the ultrasonic signals, transmitted from the first ultrasonic inspection and reflected from the radius between the first and second portions of the structure, at the first ultrasonic inspection sensor. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the inspection device is configured to inspect a fuselage shear tie. 30. The method of claim 28, further comprising selecting a predefined structure in a computer program corresponding to the structure to be inspected by the inspection device. 31. The method of claim 28, further comprising selecting a predefined inspection device in a computer program corresponding to the inspection device to be used to inspect the structure. 32. The method of claim 28, wherein the first ultrasonic inspection sensor is a curved linear inspection sensor, and wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals from the first ultrasonic inspection sensor comprises transmitting ultrasonic signals at an angle through a plane, wherein the plane is a tangent to the radius between the first and second portions of the structure. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals at an angle through a plane comprises transmitting ultrasonic signals converging in the direction of a convex surface of the radius between the first and second portions of the structure. 34. The method of claim 32, wherein transmitting ultrasonic signals at an angle through a plane comprises transmitting ultrasonic signals diverging in the direction of a concave surface of the radius between the first and second portions of the structure. 35. The method of claim 28, wherein the inspection device further comprises a first wing appendage for supporting the inspection device on the first portion of the structure, and wherein supporting the inspection device on the first portion of the structure comprises supporting the first wing appendage against the first portion of the structure. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the inspection device further comprises a second wing appendage for supporting the inspection device on the second portion of the structure, and wherein supporting the inspection device on the second portion of the structure comprises supporting the second wing appendage against the second portion of the structure. 