A twin-sheet thermoforming process and associated apparatus which enables placement of an insert between upper and lower sheets before the sheets are actually heated and formed is described herein. Since the insert is positioned before molding takes place, the insert does not cause the formed panels to rest and cool down before fusing is finally carried out to capture the insert and seal the panels to each other. Panel fusing may therefore be performed at an optimal temperature.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A thermoforming apparatus comprising: a thermoforming press station including first and second translatable molds; an oven station including heating elements; and a framing device comprising: an upper sheet mounting frame so configured as to releasably hold an upper thermoplastic sheet; a lower sheet mounting frame so configured as to releasably hold a lower thermoplastic sheet; and at least one insert holding assembly so configured as to hold at least one insert between the upper sheet mounting frame and the lower sheet mounting frame. 2. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a transfer carriage for transferring the framing device from the oven station to the thermoforming press station. 3. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 1, wherein the oven station includes a upper array of heating elements for heating the upper thermoplastic sheet and a lower array of heating elements for heating the lower thermoplastic sheet. 4. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 3, wherein the oven station simultaneously heats the upper and lower thermoplastic sheets. 5. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 1, wherein the framing device includes lateral longitudinal tracks to which the upper and lower sheet mounting frames are slidably mounted. 6. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 5, wherein the upper and lower sheet mounting frames respectively include: first and second adjustable transversal clamping bars slidably mounted to the lateral longitudinal tracks; and first and second connecting clamping bars extending between and connected to the first and second transversal clamping bars; whereby, the transversal and connecting clamping bars define a generally rectangular frame of an appropriate size to conform to and support the peripheral edge of a thermoplastic sheet to be formed. 7. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one insert holding assembly is so mounted to the framing device as to be movable. 8. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one insert holding assembly includes a fixed portion and a reciprocating portion; the reciprocating portion including at least one insert holder so configured as to contact the at least one insert. 9. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 8, wherein the at least one insert holder includes a needle. 10. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 8, wherein the at least one insert holder includes a tubular injector. 11. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 10, wherein the tubular injector includes an elongated hollow needle extending from a larger diameter shank defining a shoulder; the elongated hollow needle including at least one spring loaded ball provided near the tip thereof; the elongated hollow needle including radial exit apertures and is so configured as to be connected to a pressurized air source to feed fresh air through the radial exit apertures. 12. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one insert holding assembly comprises a structure for retaining a sacrificial holder. 13. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 12, wherein the sacrificial holder includes opposite tabs mounted to the framing device. 14. The thermoforming apparatus of claim 12, wherein the sacrificial holder is made of thermoplastic material. 15. A twin-sheet thermoforming framing device comprising: an upper sheet mounting frame so configured as to releasably hold an upper thermoplastic sheet; a lower sheet mounting frame so configured as to releasably hold a lower thermoplastic sheet; and at least one insert holding assembly so configured as to hold at least one insert between the upper sheet mounting frame and the lower sheet mounting frame. 16. The twin-sheet thermoforming framing device of claim 15, comprising lateral longitudinal tracks to which the upper and lower sheet mounting frames are slidably mounted. 17. The twin-sheet thermoforming framing device of claim 16, wherein the upper and lower sheet mounting frames respectively include: first and second adjustable transversal clamping bars slidably mounted to the lateral longitudinal tracks; and first and second connecting clamping bars extending between and connected to the first and second transversal clamping bars; whereby, the transversal and connecting clamping bars define a generally rectangular frame of an appropriate size to conform to and support the peripheral edge of a thermoplastic sheet to be formed. 18. The twin-sheet thermoforming framing device of claim 15, wherein the at least one insert holding assembly is so mounted to the framing device as to be movable. 19. The twin-sheet thermoforming framing device of claim 15, wherein the at least one insert holding assembly includes a fixed portion and a reciprocating portion; the reciprocating portion including at least one insert holder so configured as to contact the at least one insert. 20. The twin-sheet thermoforming framing device of claim 19, wherein the at least one insert holder includes a needle. 21. The twin-sheet thermoforming framing device of claim 19, wherein the at least one insert holder includes a tubular injector. 22. The twin-sheet thermoforming framing device of claim 21, wherein the tubular injector includes an elongated hollow needle extending from a larger diameter shank defining a shoulder; the elongated hollow needle including at least one spring loaded ball provided near the tip thereof; the elongated hollow needle including radial exit apertures and is so configured as to be connected to a pressurized air source to feed fresh air through the radial exit apertures. 23. The twin-sheet thermoforming framing device of claim 15, wherein the at least one insert holding assembly comprises a structure for retaining a sacrificial holder. 24. The twin-sheet thermoforming framing device of claim 23, wherein the sacrificial holder includes opposite tabs mounted to the framing device. 25. The twin-sheet thermoforming framing device of claim 23, wherein the sacrificial holder is made of thermoplastic material. 