The present invention comprises a container transport and loading system. The system generally comprises a load port for presenting articles to a tool and a container transport system. In one embodiment, the load port includes a vertically movable FOUP advance plate assembly that is adapted to load and unload a FOUP from a conveyor that passes by the load port and move the FOUP horizontally. In another embodiment, the load port includes a vertically movable support structure that is adapted to load and unload a container from a shuttle that passes by the load port. The various embodiments of the load port and container transport system are improvements over conventional container transport systems. The present invention also includes a shuttle for simultaneously transporting multiple containers that a load port may load or unload a container from.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for handling and transporting containers in a facility, comprising: (a) a material handling system, including: an opening; a support structure being adapted to receive a container; and a drive mechanism for moving the support structure vertically between a first height and a second height, the support structure being located above the container transport plane when the support structure is at the first height, the support structure being located below a container transport plane when the support structure is at the second height; and (b) a conveyor for movably supporting the container substantially along the container transport plane; wherein the support structure does not support the container while the container travels over the support structure when the support structure is located at the second height. 2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the material handling system further includes a port door being adapted to move between a closed position preventing an article from passing through the opening and an open position allowing an article to pass through the opening. 3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the support structure comprises a container advance assembly being adapted for moving the container substantially horizontally. 4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the support structure is able to receive a container for transporting semiconductor wafers having a diameter between 1500 mm-500 mm. 5. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the support structure is being adapted to receive a container for transporting a flat panel display. 6. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the drive mechanism comprises: an arm affixed to the support structure; and a drive assembly for moving the arm vertically. 7. The system as recited in claim 6, wherein the conveyor comprises: a first rail parallel to the direction of travel of a container in the conveyor; and a second rail spaced apart from the first rail and parallel to the first rail; wherein the portion of the first rail passing the load port includes a feature allowing the arm to pass unobstructed through at least a part of the first rail. 8. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises: a first rail having a top surface; and a second rail spaced apart from the first rail. 9. The system as recited in claim 8, wherein the drive mechanism includes a vertically adjustable arm having a distal end affixed to the support structure. 10. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the conveyor moves containers along the conveyor by one of the rollers, air track, railway or belts. 11. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises a rail and a plurality of rollers each rotatably secured to the rail, each one of the plurality of rollers being spaced apart from each other and extending outward from the rail. 12. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein the support structure comprises at least two fingers spaced apart from each other such that each the finger nests between adjacent rollers when the support structure is located at the second height. 13. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the material handling system is a load port. 14. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the material handling system is associated with a stocker. 15. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the material handling system is associated with a processing tool. 16. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the support structure includes a spaced apart opening. 17. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the material handling system is defined to open a door in the container for loading and unloading items carried in the container when the support structure is located at the first height. 18. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the container is one of a Front Opening Unified Pod (FOUP), an Standard Mechanical Interface (SMIF) pod, a reticle container, or a flat panel display transport device. 19. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the support structure enables the container to have unobstructed travel over the support structure when the support structure is located at the second height. 20. A system for handling and transporting containers in a facility, comprising: (a) a load port, including: a frame having an opening; a support structure being adapted to receive a container; and a drive mechanism for moving the support structure vertically between a first height and a second height, the support structure being located above the container transport plane when the support structure is at the first height, the support structure being located below a container transport plane when the support structure is at the second height; and (b) a conveyor for movably supporting the container substantially along the container transport plane; wherein the support structure does not support the container while the container travels over the support structure when the support structure is located at the second height. 21. The system as recited in claim 20, wherein the container is one of a Front Opening Unified Pod (FOUP), an Standard Mechanical Interface (SM IF) pod, a reticle container, or a flat panel display transport device. 22. In a semiconductor fabrication apparatus having a conveyor for movably supporting a container along a first rail and a second rail between processing tools, a load port comprising: a frame having an opening; a support structure being adapted to receive a container; and a mechanism, connected to the support structure, for moving the support structure substantially vertically with respect to the frame, the mechanism being adapted to lower the support structure to a lower position located below the container moving plane and to raise the support structure to an upper position, wherein a container moving along the conveyor passes unobstructed when the support structure is at the lower position and when the support structure at the upper position. 23. The system as recited in claim 22, wherein the support structure comprises a container advance assembly for moving a container seated on the advance assembly substantially horizontally with respect to the frame. 24. The system as recited in claim 22 wherein the support structure is able to receive a container for storing semiconductor wafers having a diameter between 150 mm-600 mm. 25. The system as recited in claim 22, wherein the support structure is being adapted to receive a container for transporting a flat panel display. 26. The system as recited in claim 22, wherein the mechanism comprises: an arm having a distal end affixed to the support structure; and a drive assembly for moving the arm vertically with respect to the frame. 27. The system as recited in claim 26, wherein a portion of the first rail passing the load port includes a feature allowing the arm to pass unobstructed through at least the portion of the first rail. 