A direction-recognizing apparatus has a photographing unit, an image database, an image-recognizing unit, and a direction-recognizing unit. The database stores registered images and direction-data items associated with the registered images. The image-recognizing unit receives an input image and compares the input image with the registered images stored in the database. The image-recognizing unit selects one registered image that is identical or similar to the input image. The direction-recognizing unit recognizes a direction from the direction data associated with the registered image selected by the image-recognizing unit. The database may store N direction-data items associated with N surface segments S.sub.N of the circumferential surface of a pole. If so, the images registered in the database represent direction-recognition regions AS.sub.N that are larger than the N surface segments S.sub.N.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A direction-recognizing apparatus for recognizing at least N different directions (N.gtoreq.2) by using a direction-indicating member, the apparatus comprising: memory means for storing N registered images for identifying the N directions and direction-data items associated with the registered images, respectively, each image including a physical pattern on a corresponding one of N surfaces of the direction-indicating member, each physical pattern unique with respect to other physical patterns on the N surfaces; image-recognizing means for comparing an input image of the direction-indicating member, photographed in a given direction, with the N registered images, and for extracting one of the registered images which is determined to be identical or similar to the input image of the direction-indicating member; and direction-recognizing means for recognizing the direction in which the input image has been photographed, from the direction-data item associated with the registered image extracted, wherein the N surfaces of the direction-indicating member can be identified when viewed in the N different directions. 2. The direction-recognizing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the N registered images include the images of the N surface segments of the direction-indicating member, respectively, are larger than the images of the N surface segments obtained by dividing the surface of the direction-indicating member by N and are associated with the N directions, and the direction-data items represent the N directions, respectively. 3. The direction-recognizing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the registered images are used to identify surfaces, each being larger than a 360.degree./N surface segment, where 360.degree. is the circumference of the direction-indicating member. 4. The direction-recognizing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the direction-indicating member has, on the surface, a pattern that has no periodicity. 5. The direction-recognizing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the registered images have been extracted from pattern data representing the pattern provided on the surface of the direction-indicating member, and each include the image of one of the N surface segments and is larger than the images of the N surface segments. 6. The direction-recognizing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each of the registered images is an image of the direction-indicating member, photographed in one of the N directions. 7. The direction-recognizing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the direction-indicating member is a pole, and the registered images are used to identify surface segments of the pole, which are larger than the N surface segments and each of which includes one of the N surface segments. 8. The direction-recognizing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the image-recognizing means includes: characteristic-extracting means for extracting characteristics from the input image and registered images; characteristic-holding means for extracting a density-gradient direction histogram from density-gradient data about a region near the characteristics of the input image and the characteristics of each registered image and for holding the histogram thus extracted; characteristic-comparing means for comparing the characteristics of the input image with the characteristics of each registered image, for finding a shortest inter-histogram distance by cyclically shifting one of the histograms of the images compared, in the direction of the density gradient, and for generating a candidate character pair that consists of two characteristics, the shortest distance for which is less than a prescribed threshold value, the shortest inter-histogram distance being the distance between the shifted histogram and the histogram closest to the shifted histogram; and estimating means for detecting a registered image that is identical or similar to the image of the direction-indicating member, included in the input image, by using the candidate character pair. 9. A direction-recognizing apparatus for recognizing at least N different directions (N.gtoreq.2) by using a direction-indicating member, the apparatus comprising: memory means for storing an image having N regions for identifying the N directions and storing direction-data items that are associated with the N regions of the image, respectively, each region including a physical pattern on a corresponding one of N surfaces of the direction-indicating member, each physical pattern unique with respect to other physical patterns on the N surfaces; image-recognizing means for comparing an input image of the direction-indicating member, photographed in a given direction, with the N regions of the image, and for extracting one of the stored N regions of the image, which is determined to be identical or similar to the input image of the direction-indicating member; and direction-recognizing means for recognizing the direction in which the input image has been photographed, from the direction-data item associated with the stored region extracted, wherein the N surfaces of the direction-indicating member can be identified when viewed in the N different directions. 10. A method of recognizing at least N different directions (N.gtoreq.2) by using a direction-indicating member, the method comprising: comparing an input image of the direction-indicating member, photographed by an imaging device in a given direction, with N registered images stored in a computer readable memory identifying the N directions, and then extracting from the memory one of the registered images which is determined to be identical or similar to the input image of the direction-indicating member, each image including a physical pattern on a corresponding one of N surfaces of the direction-indicating member, each physical pattern unique with respect to other physical patterns on the N surfaces; and recognizing the direction in which the input image has been photographed, from the direction-data item associated with the registered image extracted, wherein the N surfaces of the direction-indicating member can be identified when viewed in the N different directions. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the N registered images include the images of the N surface segments of the direction-indicating member, respectively, are larger than the images of N surface segments obtained by dividing the surface of the direction-indicating member by N and are associated with the N directions, and the direction-data items represent the N directions, respectively. 12. The method according to claim 10, wherein the registered images are used to identify surfaces, each being larger than a 360.degree./N surface segment, where 360.degree. is the circumference of the direction-indicating member. 13. The method according to claim 11, wherein the direction-indicating member has, on the surface, a pattern that has no periodicity. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the registered images have been extracted from pattern data representing the pattern provided on the surface of the direction-indicating member, and each include the image of one of the N surface segments and is larger than the images of the N surface segments. 15. The method according to claim 10, wherein each of the registered images is an image of the direction-indicating member, photographed in one of the N directions. 16. A method of recognizing at least N different directions (N.gtoreq.2) by using a direction-indicating member, the method comprising: comparing an input image of the direction-indicating member, photographed by an imaging device in a given direction, with N registered regions stored in a computer readable memory identifying the N directions, and then extracting from the memory one of the registered regions which is determined to be identical or similar to the input image of the direction-indicating member, each region including a physical pattern on a corresponding one of N surfaces of the direction-indicating member, each physical pattern unique with respect to other physical patterns on the N surfaces; and recognizing the direction in which the input image has been photographed, from the direction-data item associated with the registered region extracted, wherein the N surfaces of the direction-indicating member can be identified when viewed in the N different directions. 17. A direction-recognizing system comprising: a direction-indicating member which is used to recognize at least N different directions (N.gtoreq.2), the direction-indicating member including N surfaces, each surface including a physical pattern unique with respect to other physical patterns on the N surfaces; and a direction-recognizing apparatus which uses the direction-indicating member to recognize directions, wherein the N surfaces of the direction-indicating member can be identified when viewed in the N different directions, the direction-recognizing apparatus including, memory means storing N registered images for identifying the N directions and direction-data items associated with the registered images, respectively, each image including the physical pattern on a corresponding one of N surfaces of the direction-indicating member; image-recognizing means for comparing an input image of the direction-indicating member, photographed in a given direction, with the N registered images, and for extracting one of the registered images which is determined to be identical or similar to the input image of the direction-indicating member; and direction-recognizing means for recognizing the direction in which the input image has been photographed, from the direction-data item associated with the registered image extracted. 18. A direction-recognizing system comprising: a direction-indicating member which is used to recognize at least N different directions (N.gtoreq.2), the direction-indicating member including N surfaces, each surface including a physical pattern unique with respect to other physical patterns on the N surfaces; and a direction-recognizing apparatus which uses the direction-indicating member to recognize directions, wherein the N surfaces of the direction-indicating member can be identified when viewed in the N different directions, the direction-recognizing apparatus including, memory means storing an image having N regions for identifying the N directions and storing direction-data items that are associated with the N regions of the image, respectively, each region including the physical pattern on a corresponding one of N surfaces of the direction-indicating member; image-recognizing means for comparing an input image of the direction-indicating member, photographed in a given direction, with the N regions of the image, and for extracting one of the stored N regions of the image, which is determined to be identical or similar to the input image of the direction-indicating member; and direction-recognizing means for recognizing the direction in which the input image has been photographed, from the direction-data item associated with the stored region extracted. 19. A robot apparatus that autonomously acts and has a direction-recognizing apparatus which uses a direction-indicating member to recognize at least N different directions (N.gtoreq.2), the direction-recognizing apparatus comprising: memory means storing N registered images for identifying the N directions and direction-data items associated with the registered images, respectively, each image including a physical pattern on a corresponding one of N surfaces of the direction-indicating member, each physical pattern unique with respect to other physical patterns on the N surfaces; image-recognizing means for comparing an input image of the direction-indicating member, photographed in a given direction, with the N registered images, and for extracting one of the registered images which is determined to be identical or similar to the input image of the direction-indicating member; and direction-recognizing means for recognizing the direction in which the input image has been photographed, from the direction-data item associated with the registered image extracted, wherein the N surfaces of the direction-indicating member can be identified when viewed in the N different directions. 20. The robot apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the N registered images include the images of the N surface segments of the direction-indicating member, respectively, are larger than the images of N surface segments obtained by dividing the surface of the direction-indicating member by N and are associated with the N directions, and the direction-data items represent the N directions, respectively. 21. A robot apparatus that autonomously acts and has a direction-recognizing apparatus which uses a direction-indicating member to recognize at least N different directions (N.gtoreq.2), the direction-recognizing apparatus comprising: memory means storing an image having N regions for identifying the N directions and storing direction-data items that are associated with the N regions of the image, respectively, each region including a physical pattern on a corresponding one of N surfaces of the direction-indicating member, each physical pattern unique with respect to other physical patterns on the N surfaces; image-recognizing means for comparing an input image of the direction-indicating member, photographed in a given direction, with the N regions of the image, and for extracting one of the stored N regions of the image, which is determined to be identical or similar to the input image of the direction-indicating member; and direction-recognizing means for recognizing the direction in which the input image has been photographed, from the direction-data item associated with the stored region extracted, wherein the N surfaces of the direction-indicating member can be identified when viewed in the N different directions. 22. A direction-recognizing apparatus for recognizing at least N different directions (N.gtoreq.2) by using a direction-indicating member, the apparatus comprising: a memory configured to store N registered images for identifying the N directions and direction-data items associated with the registered images, respectively, each image including a physical pattern on a corresponding one of N surfaces of the direction-indicating member, each physical pattern unique with respect to other physical patterns on the N surfaces; an image-recognizing configured to compare an input image of the direction-indicating member, photographed in a given direction, with the N registered images, and to extract one of the registered images which is determined to be identical or similar to the input image of the direction-indicating member; and a direction-recognizing unit configured to recognize the direction in which the input image has been photographed, from the direction-data item associated with the registered image extracted, wherein the N surfaces of the direction-indicating member can be identified when viewed in the N different directions. 23. A direction-recognizing apparatus for recognizing at least N different directions (N.gtoreq.2) by using a direction-indicating member, the apparatus comprising: a memory configured to store an image having N regions for identifying the N directions and storing direction-data items that are associated with the N regions of the image, respectively, each image including a physical pattern on a corresponding one of N surfaces of the direction-indicating member, each physical pattern unique with respect to other physical patterns on the N surfaces; an image-recognizing unit configured to compare an input image of the direction-indicating member, photographed in a given direction, with the N regions of the image, and for extracting one of the stored N regions of the image, which is determined to be identical or similar to the input image of the direction-indicating member; and a direction-recognizing unit configured to recognize the direction in which the input image has been photographed, from the direction-data item associated with the stored region extracted, wherein the N surfaces of the direction-indicating member can be identified when viewed in the N different directions. 24. The direction-recognizing apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the physical patterns include printed images on the N surfaces. 25. The direction-recognizing apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the physical patterns include projections or depressions on the N surfaces. 