The present invention provides methods for diagnosing mental disorders (e.g., psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia and mood disorders such as major depression disorder and bipolar disorder). The invention also provides methods of identifying modulators of such mental disorders as well as methods of using these modulators to treat patients suffering from such mental disorders.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for facilitating the diagnosis of bipolar disorder in a human subject, the method comprising the steps of: (i) obtaining a dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), anterior cingulate cortex (AnCg), or lymphocyte sample from said subject; (ii) measuring the level of major histocompatibility complex, class II, DP alpha 1 (HLA-DPA1) mRNA transcription in said sample using nucleic acid probes complementary to HLA-DPA1 mRNA; (iii) comparing the level of measured HLA-DPA1 mRNA transcription in said sample to the level of HLA-DPA1 mRNA transcription in a control population that does not have bipolar disorder, wherein a decreased level of HLA-DPA1 mRNA relative to the control population indicates an increased likelihood of bipolar disorder in said subject; and (iv) recording or reporting a diagnosis of an increased likelihood of bipolar disorder in said subject based on said comparing. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the decreased level of HLA-DPA1 mRNA corresponds to an at least 1.2-fold decrease in the level of HLA-DPA1 mRNA relative to the control population at a statistical significance of p<0.05. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the level of HLA-DPA1 mRNA transcription in said sample is measured using a nucleic acid hybridization technique. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the level of HLA-DPA1 mRNA transcription in said sample is measured using a nucleic acid amplification system. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said nucleic acid amplification system is the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid probes comprise a label. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said label is selected from the group consisting of isotopes, chromophores, lumiphores, chromogens, and biotin. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein said label is selected from the group consisting of ligands, fluorophores, chemiluminescent agents, enzymes, and antibodies. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein said label is detected using a detector. 