A printhead assembly is provided which has a plurality of printhead modules and at least one fluid connector. Each module has printing fluid ejection nozzles supplied with printing fluid from at least one longitudinally extending channel defined in a printing fluid distribution member of the respective module. The distribution members have complementary female and male end portions configured to interconnect the channels of adjacent modules. The fluid connector is connected to the distribution member female or male end portion of at least one of the modules and communicates printing fluid from a fluid supply to the nozzles of all of the modules via the interconnected channels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: a plurality of printhead modules each comprising printing fluid ejection nozzles supplied with printing fluid from at least one longitudinally extending channel defined in a printing fluid distribution member of the respective module, the distribution members having complementary female and male end portions configured to interconnect the channels of adjacent modules; a fluid connector connected to the distribution member female or male end portion of one of the modules, the fluid connector for communicating printing fluid from a fluid supply to the nozzles of all of the modules via the interconnected channels; and a sealing member connected to the distribution member female or male end portion of another one of the modules, the sealing member having female and male portions complementary to the female and male end portions of the modules and for sealing the channels of the connected module. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein a sealing adhesive is provided at the interface of the connected fluid connector and module. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein the sealing adhesive is an epoxy. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the nozzles of each module are incorporated in at least two printhead integrated circuits which are supported by the distribution members. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 4, wherein each module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the respective printhead integrated circuits, distribution member and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein each distribution member has a plurality of apertures arranged to direct the printing fluid from the respective channel to associated nozzles in the printhead integrated circuits. 