A processing system includes a communication bus. a controller, an Input/Output ("I/O") block, and reconfigurable logic segments (e.g., reconfigurable units). Individually reconfigurable logic segments are part of a single chip. A communication bus is in electrical communication with the logic segments. A first logic segment communicates to a Second logic segment over the communication bus. Reconfiguration can partition a first logic segment into a second and a third logic segment where the smaller logic segments are in electrical communication with the communication bus. Resources are dynamically reallocated when reconfigurable units are either combined or partitioned. More specifically, both partitioning a logic segment and combining two or more logic segments can change the bus width allocated to a reconfigurable unit and the quantity of logic gates in the reconfigured unit. As a result of a reconfiguration, a logic segment's embedded resources can change. The processing system provides high chip utilization throughout the chip's operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processing system, comprising: individually reconfigurable units that are part of a single chip, wherein each of the reconfigurable units includes a plurality of logic gates that during runtime can be further partitioned into a first processing element and a second processing element or re-combined with a second plurality of logic gates of another reconfigurable unit to form a third processing element, wherein the first, second, and third processing elements have quantities of logic gates based on processing tasks, at least one of the processing elements being reconfigurable during runtime and operating independently of other processing elements in the system, and at least two of the processing elements being logically separate and not interacting directly with each other; one or more common data buses to facilitate data exchange between the reconfigurable units and an input/output (I/O) module; and one or more local data buses in electrical communication among the reconfigurable units, the one or more local data buses being reconfigurable during runtime to dynamically reallocate bandwidth among the processing elements based at least in part on said partitioning or re-combination of the logic gates, each local bus, when configured, being dedicated to interconnecting two or more of the processing elements. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the one or more common data buses are part of the single chip. 3. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the one or more common data buses are external to the single chip. 4. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a first reconfigurable unit and a second reconfigurable unit, wherein the first reconfigurable unit communicates to the second reconfigurable unit over a local data bus, wherein the local data bus has a first bandwidth when the first reconfigurable unit is in a first state, and wherein the local data bus has a second bandwidth when the first reconfigurable unit is in a second state. 5. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a controller and a memory module, wherein each of the controller and the memory module are in electrical communication with the one or more common data buses. 6. The system as claimed in claim 5 wherein each of the controller and the I/O module are external to the single chip. 7. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a controller, wherein a first allocated portion of a common data bus is in electrical communication with the controller, the I/O module, and the reconfigurable units, and wherein a second allocated portion of the common data bus is in electrical communication with the controller, the I/0 module, and at least one reconfigurable unit. 8. The system as claimed in claim 7, wherein a third allocated portion of the common data bus is in electrical communication with at least two of the reconfigurable unit, and wherein the third allocated portion of the common data bus is dedicated to communication between said at least two reconfigurable unit. 9. The system as claimed in claim 8, further comprising a control bus, wherein the control bus is in electrical communication with the controller, the I/O module, and the logic segments. 10. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a plurality of chips, wherein individually reconfigurable units are part of the chips. 11. The system as claimed in claim 5 wherein access to the one or more common data buses is arbitrated among the reconfigurable units and the I/O module. 12. A method for processing that employs a system comprising a controller, a memory, and a single chip comprising a plurality of reconfigurable units, the method comprising the steps of: transmitting a control signal from the controller to a first group of one or more reconfigurable units while at least one other reconfigurable unit is in operation, the control signal including data associated at least one function; in response to the control signal, pulling configuration data for the first group of reconfigurable units from the memory; with the configuration data, reconfiguring the first group of reconfigurable units to a first state, the reconfiguring including partitioning a plurality of logic gates in a first reconfigurable unit into at least a first processing element and a second processing element or re-combining one or more portions of the plurality of logic gates with some or all logic gates of a second reconfigurable unit to form a third processing element, wherein the first, second and third processing elements have quantities of logic gates based on the at least one function, at least one of the processing elements being reconfigurable during runtime and operating independently of other processing elements in the system, and at least two of the processing elements being logically separate and not interacting directly with each other; arranging or assigning conductors among the first group of reconfigurable units to reallocate bandwidth of at least one local bus to the processing elements based at least in part on the runtime partitioning or re-combination of the reconfigurable units, each local bus, when configured, being dedicated to interconnecting two or more of the processing elements; wherein the processing elements execute the at least one function when in the first state, and wherein the reconfigurable units are individually reconfigurable during runtime and are in electrical communication with a common data bus. 13. The method according to claim 12, further comprising the step of: reconfiguring a second group of one or more reconfigurable units while the first group of reconfigurable units executes the at least one function. 14. The method according to claim 12, the reconfiguring step further comprising the step of: combining a first reconfigurable unit with a second reconfigurable unit. 15. The method according to claim 12, the reconfiguring step further comprising the step of: partitioning at least one reconfigurable unit into two or more individually reconfigurable units. 16. The method according to claim 12, the reconfiguring step further comprising the step of: changing a bandwidth of the common data bus. 17. The method according to claim 16 wherein the common data bus is external to the single chip. 18. A single-chip FPGA comprising: a plurality of individually reconfigurable units that are part of a single chip; an I/O segment; and a controller dedicated to reconfigure the reconfigurable units during runtime and to coordinate the reconfigurable units in performing their respectively programmed functions, wherein the controller initiates reconfiguration of a first group of reconfigurable units while a second group of reconfigurable units are still executing instructions, wherein the reconfiguration causes a plurality of logic gates of at least one reconfigurable unit in the first group of reconfigurable units to be partitioned into a first processing element and a second processing element and/or re-combined with another reconfigurable unit to form a third processing element, wherein the first, second and third processing elements have quantities of logic gates based on processing tasks, at least one of the processing elements being reconfigurable during runtime and operating independently of other processing elements, and at least two of the processing elements being logically separate and not interacting directly with each other, and wherein the reconfiguration further reallocates bandwidth of at least one of a common data bus and a local data bus based at least in part on the partitioning or re-combination of reconfigurable units, the local bus being dedicated to interconnecting to or more of the processing elements. 19. The FPGA according to claim 18 wherein the data bus is in electrical communication with the reconfigurable units, the I/O segment, and the controller. 20. The FPGA according to claim 19 wherein a bandwidth of the data bus employed by the at least one reconfigurable unit is greater when the at least one reconfigurable unit is in a second configuration than when the at least one reconfigurable unit is in a first configuration. 21. The FPGA according to claim 19 wherein a quantity of logic gates in the at least one reconfigurable unit is greater when the at least one reconfigurable unit is in a second configuration than when the at least one reconfigurable unit is in a first configuration. 22. A method for performing multiple tasks comprising a plurality of functions, the method comprising the steps of: providing a device comprising a plurality of reconfigurable units on a single chip; programming the device into a first configuration by partitioning a plurality of logic gates in at least one reconfigurable unit into a first processing element and a second processing element or combining plurality of logic gates with logic gates of another reconfigurable unit to form a third processing element, wherein the first, second and third processing elements have quantities of logic gates based on processing tasks, at least one of the processing elements being reconfigurable during runtime and operating independently of other processing elements in the single chip, and at least two of the processing elements being logically separate and not interacting directly with each other; with the logic in the first configuration, starting the execution of at least a first function and a second function, each function being performed by at least one processing elements; and upon completion of the first function, reconfiguring a portion of the device by partitioning and re-combining logic gates within corresponding reconfigurable units or portions thereof to form at least one new processing element and further by reallocating one or more local data buses among the corresponding reconfigurable units or the at least one new processing element, each local bus, when configured, being dedicated to interconnecting two or more processing elements, wherein the second function continues to be executed during at least a portion of the reconfiguring step. 23. The method according to claim 22 wherein a third function begins execution while the second function continues to be executed. 