A method for putting a glass plate to a target position includes (a) putting the glass plate at a preliminary position above an air table that discharges air upwardly, by moving a suction member that supports the glass plate through suction; (b) releasing suction of the suction member, while air is discharged upwardly from the air table, thereby floating the glass plate at the preliminary position above the air table; and (c) moving a pressing member in a horizontal direction, while the pressing member is in abutment with a top surface of the glass plate and while air is discharged upwardly from the air table, thereby moving the glass plate in the horizontal direction from the preliminary position above the air table to the target position above the air table by a frictional force generated between the pressing member and the glass plate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for putting a glass plate for a vehicle to a target position, comprising: (a) an air table for discharging air upwardly such that the glass plate is floated above the air table by an upward force of the air; and (b) a robot having a robotic arm mounted with: (i) a suction member for supporting the glass plate by applying suction to the suction member, the suction member being movable via the robotic arm to put the glass plate at a preliminary position above the air table when suction is applied to the suction member; and (ii) a pressing member that presses against the glass plate with sufficient frictional force between the pressing member and the glass plate to move the glass plate, and that is movable in a horizontal direction via the robotic arm, while the pressing member is in abutment with a top surface of the glass plate, while suction is released from the suction member, and while air is discharged upwardly from the air table such that the glass plate is floated above the air table by the upward force of the air, thereby moving the glass plate in the horizontal direction from the preliminary position above the air table in the target position above the air table by the frictional force generated between the pressing member and the glass plate; wherein the apparatus further comprises a conveyance chain, and at least two flights that are attached to the chain, and that are aligned along and move along one side of the air table; wherein the pressing member is movable in the horizontal direction to bring an edge of the glass plate into abutment with the at least two flights; wherein each flight has play to bring the edge of the glass plate into abutment with each flight; and wherein the apparatus further comprises a transfer robot arranged to transfer a first glass plate positioned at a forefront of class plates standing in a pallet, onto a positioning table, by supporting the first glass plate with a suction member of the transfer robot, and a sensor arranged to detect a real coordinate of the first glass plate on the positioning table; and the robot arm is arranged to transfer the first glass plate from the positioning table to the preliminary position above the air table, while a position of the first glass plate is corrected based on a difference between the real coordinate and a reference coordinate of the first glass plate on the positioning table. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the pressing member is formed on a bottom surface of the suction member and is made of a sponge rubber. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the pressing member is formed in the vicinity of the suction member, and wherein the pressing member has (a) a sponge rubber member to be in abutment with the top surface of the glass plate and (b) a biasing means for downwardly biasing the sponge rubber member against the top surface of the glass plate. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the pressing member includes a flat surface which confronts the top surface of the glass plate, which extends along the top surface of the glass plate, and which is arranged to be in surface-to-surface contact with the top surface of the glass plate. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of pressing members are mounted to the robotic arm of the robot. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein four pressing members are mounted to the robotic arm of the robot. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the four pressing members are mounted at four corner portions of a movable plate of the robotic arm. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the suction member comprises suction cups. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus further comprises a detection camera arranged to detect the flights. 10. A method for putting a glass plate to a target position, comprising the steps of: (a) providing an apparatus according to claim 1; (b) putting the glass plate at a preliminary position above the air table by moving the suction member while supporting the glass plate through suction of the suction member; (c) releasing suction of the suction member, while air is discharged upwardly from the air table, thereby floating the glass plate at the preliminary position above the air table, and (d) moving the pressing member in a horizontal direction, while the pressing member is in abutment with a top surface of the glass plate and while air is discharged upwardly from the air table, thereby moving the glass plate in the horizontal direction from the preliminary position above the air table to the target position above the air table by a frictional force generated between the pressing member and the glass plate. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the pressing member is disposed on a bottom surface of the suction member or in the vicinity of the bottom surface of the suction member. 12. The method according to claim 10, wherein the step (c) is conducted at a timing such that at the target position an edge of the glass plate is brought into abutment with at least two positioning guides that are aligned along and move along one side of the air table. 