A method for rapidly determining feasibility of a force optimization problem and for rapidly solving a feasible force optimization problem is disclosed. The method comprises formulating the force optimization problem or force feasibility problem as a convex optimization problem, formulating a primal barrier subproblem associated with the convex optimization problem, and solving the primal barrier subproblem. The method and related methods may also be used to solve each problem in a set of force optimization problems, determine the minimum or maximum force required to satisfy any of a set of force optimization problems, solve a force closure problem, compute a conservative contact force vector, or solve a feasible force optimization problem with bidirectional forces.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for solving a force feasibility problem, which is the problem of determining whether it is possible to choose contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, comprising the steps of: (a) formulating the problem of determining whether it is possible to choose contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points on an object to resist a specified external wrench as a convex optimization problem; (b) formulating a primal barrier subproblem associated with the convex optimization problem where the primal barrier subproblem has an accuracy parameter; and (c) solving the primal barrier subproblem for a fixed value of the accuracy parameter. 2. The method of claim 1, where the convex optimization problem is a second-order cone program. 3. A method for solving a force feasibility problem, which is the problem of determining whether it is possible to choose contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, comprising the steps of: (a) formulating the problem of determining whether it is possible to choose contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points on an object to resist a specified external wrench, as a convex optimization problem; (b) formulating a primal barrier subproblem associated with the convex optimization problem; (c) formulating a dual problem having a dual objective such that if the dual problem is satisfied, it is not possible to choose such forces; and (d) solving the primal barrier subproblem, using the dual objective in a convergence test. 4. The method of claim 3, where the step of solving the primal barrier subproblem further comprises expressing the dual objective by an explicit formula. 5. A method for solving a force optimization problem, which is the problem of computing optimal contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, comprising the steps of: (a) formulating the problem of computing optimal contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench as a convex optimization problem; (b) formulating a primal barrier subproblem associated with the convex optimization problem where the primal barrier subproblem has an accuracy parameter; and (c) solving the primal barrier subproblem for a fixed value of the accuracy parameter. 6. The method of claim 5, where the convex optimization problem is a second-order cone program. 7. A method for solving a force optimization problem, which is the problem of computing optimal contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, comprising the steps of: (a) formulating the problem of computing optimal contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, as a convex optimization problem; (b) formulating a primal barrier subproblem associated with the convex optimization problem; (c) formulating a dual problem having a dual objective; and (d) solving the primal barrier subproblem, using the dual objective in a convergence test. 8. The method of claim 7, where the step of solving the primal barrier subproblem further comprises computing the dual objective by an explicit formula. 9. A method solving a force optimization problem, which is the problem of computing optimal contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, comprising the steps of: (a) formulating the problem of computing optimal contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, as a convex optimization problem; (b) formulating a primal barrier subproblem associated with the convex optimization problem where the primal barrier subproblem has an accuracy parameter, and (c) solving the primal barrier subproblem to a guaranteed relative tolerance. 10. The method of claim 9, where the step of solving the primal barrier subproblem to a guaranteed relative tolerance further comprises computing a dual objective. 11. A method for solving a force optimization problem, which is the problem of computing optimal contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, comprising the steps of: (a) formulating the problem of computing optimal contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, as a convex optimization problem; (b) constructing a system of linear equations associated with the convex optimization problem; and (c) solving the system of linear equations using a custom block elimination method. 12. The method of claim 11, where the system of linear equation includes primal variables associated with contact force at contact points and dual variables, and where the custom block elimination method comprises the steps of: (a) eliminating one or more of the primal variables by symbolic substitution; (b) solving for the dual variables; and (c) solving for the eliminated primal variables. 13. The method of claim 12, where the convex optimization problem is a second-order cone program. 14. A method for solving a set of force optimization problems, each problem in the set being that of computing optimal contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, comprising the steps of: (a) formulating the set of force optimization problems as a set of convex optimization problems; (b) solving one or more of the convex optimization problems in the set so that a solution state is obtained for each solved convex optimization problem; (c) retaining one or more of the solution states; and (d) using one of the retained solution states as a starting point in solving subsequent convex optimization problems in the set. 15. The method of claim 14, where the convex optimization problems are solved via a primal barrier method. 16. The method of claim 15, where the primal barrier method includes an infeasible start Newton method. 17. The method of claim 14, where each force optimization problem has a set of contact points which may be different from the contact points of the other force optimization problems, and an external wrench which is common to all of the force optimization problems. 18. The method of claim 14, where each force optimization problem has a set of contact points which is common to all of the force optimization problems and an external wrench which may be different from the external wrenches of the other force optimization problems. 19. The method of claim 14, where one or more of the convex optimization problems of the set is a second-order cone program. 20. A method for determining the minimum force required to satisfy any of a set of force optimization problems, each problem in the set being that of computing optimal contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, comprising the steps of: (a) formulating each force optimization problem as a convex optimization problem; (b) solving one of the convex optimization problems; (c) retaining a best-case minimum value over the set of problems solved; (d) solving other convex optimization problems; (e) updating the best-case minimum value if the solution of any convex optimization problem produces a force smaller than the prior best-case minimum value; and (f) terminating the solution of one or more of the convex optimization problems if the minimum force for a convex optimization problem can be demonstrated to be larger than the best-case minimum value. 21. The method of claim 20, where the minimum force for a problem is demonstrated to be larger than the best-case minimum value by evaluating a dual objective. 22. The method of claim 20, where the solution method uses a warm-start method. 23. The method of claim 20, where each force optimization problem has a set of contact points which may be different from the contact points of the other force optimization problems, and an external wrench which is common to all of the force optimization problems. 24. The method of claim 20, where one or more of the convex optimization problems is a second-order cone program. 25. A method for determining the maximum force required to solve each of a set of force optimization problems, each problem in the set being that of computing optimal contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, comprising the steps of: (a) formulating each force optimization problem as a convex optimization problem; (b) solving one of the convex optimization problems; (c) retaining a worst-case maximum value over the set of problems solved; (d) solving other convex optimization problems; (e) updating the worst-case maximum value if a solution to a convex optimization problem produces a force larger than the prior worst-case maximum value; and (f) terminating the solution of one or more of the convex optimization problems if the minimum force for a convex optimization problem can be demonstrated to be smaller than the worst-case maximum value. 26. The method of claim 25, where the minimum force for a convex optimization problem is demonstrated to be smaller than the worst-case maximum value by evaluating a primal objective. 27. The method of claim 25, where the solution method uses a warm-start method. 28. The method of claim 25, where each force optimization problem has a set of contact points which is common to all of the force optimization problems and an external wrench which may be different from the external wrenches of the other force optimization problems. 29. The method of claim 25, where one or more of the convex optimization problems is a second-order cone program. 30. A method for solving a force closure problem, which is the problem of determining whether it is possible to choose contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points on an object to resist arbitrary external wrenches, each external wrench corresponding to a choice of forces, comprising the steps of (a) computing a set of wrenches having a convex hull with an interior, such that the origin is in the interior of the convex hull; (b) forming, for each wrench in the set of wrenches, a problem of determining whether it is possible to choose contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points on the object to resist the specified external wrench; and (c) determining whether each of the problems is feasible. 31. The method of claim 30, where the set of wrenches consists of 7 wrenches. 32. A method for computing a conservative contact force vector for any of a set of external wrenches, comprising the steps of: (a) computing a set of base contact force vectors that are independent of the external wrenches, and (b) computing a conservative contact force vector for any external wrench as a linear combination of the base contact force vectors. 33. The method of claim 32, where the set of base contact force vectors consists of 12 vectors. 34. The method of claim 33, where the coefficients in the linear combination are the positive and negative components of the new external wrench. 35. A method for solving a force optimization problem with bidirectional forces, which is the problem of computing optimal bidirectional contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain an object against a specified external wrench, comprising the steps of: (a) formulating the force optimization problem of computing optimal bidirectional contact forces to be applied at a set of specified contact points to restrain the object against the specified external wrench as a convex optimization problem involving two classes of forces, the first class of forces being friction-related forces and the second class of forces being forces directed outward from contact surfaces; (b) formulating a primal barrier subproblem associated with the convex optimization problem; and (c) solving the primal barrier subproblem. 36. The method of claim 35, where the convex optimization problem includes equality constraints requiring that each force of the second class either be zero or equal to the other non-zero forces of the second class. 37. The method of claim 35, where the convex optimization problem involves a trade-off between the first class of forces and the second class of forces. 38. The method of claim 35, where the convex optimization problem includes inequality constraints requiring that that each force of the second class be no larger than some fixed value. 