An automated laboratory device that comprises a mechanism that performs operations on laboratory samples, a scheduler that causes the mechanism to process laboratory samples in accordance with programmed processes, logic that detects an error occurring in a process controlled by the scheduler, logic that accepts a user-defined error handling routine for the error, and logic that executes the error handling routine when the error is encountered. Also described is an embodiment of the invention directed to a laboratory automation system, a method of laboratory automation, a computer implemented software program product, a method of doing business, and a laboratory automation network.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated laboratory device comprising: a mechanism that performs operations on laboratory samples; a scheduler that causes the mechanism to process laboratory samples in accordance with programmed processes; logic that detects an error occurring in a process controlled by the scheduler; logic that accepts a user-defined error handling routine for the error; and logic that executes the user-defined error handling routine when the error is encountered. 2. The automated laboratory device of claim 1, further including logic that causes execution of the user-defined error handling routine when the error is encountered in a particular process in which the error occurred and does not cause execution of the user-defined error handling routine when the error occurs in at least one other process. 3. The automated laboratory device of claim 1 further including logic that allows a user to associate the user-defined error handling routine with at least a particular process for which the user-defined error handling routine will-be executed when the error is encountered. 4. The automated laboratory device of claim 1, further including logic that applies, to an error, an error handling routine not provided by a user when the error handling routine not provided by the user is applicable to the error, and otherwise allows the user to provide the user-defined error handling routine. 5. The automated laboratory device of claim 1, further including logic that presents to a user a selection of multiple error handling routines if multiple error handling routines are stored that are associated with the error. 6. The automated laboratory device of claim 1 further including logic that provides a user interface to allow a user to enter a series of steps comprised by the error handling routine. 7. The automated laboratory device of claim 1, further including logic that provides an interface that allows a user to select from a limited set of actions comprised by the user-defined error handling routine. 8. The automated laboratory device of claim 7, wherein the actions include at least an action from a set of actions consisting of ignore and retry. 9. The automated laboratory device of claim 1, wherein the user-defined error handling routine comprises retrying a step for which an error was detected. 10. The automated laboratory device of claim 1, wherein the error includes an operator error. 11. The automated laboratory device of claim 1, wherein the error includes a mechanical error. 12. The automated laboratory device of claim 1, wherein the error includes a software error. 13. The automated laboratory device of claim 1, wherein the logic comprises software. 14. The automated laboratory device of claim 1, wherein the mechanism includes at least a mechanism from a set consisting of a robotic movement device, a sample storage device, a sealing mechanism, a liquid dispensing mechanism, a labeler, a centrifugation mechanism, and a sample reader. 15. The automated laboratory device of claim 1, wherein at least some of the laboratory samples are held within microplates and at least some of the devices include mechanisms to manipulate microplates. 16. A laboratory automation system comprising: a set of devices that perform operations on laboratory samples; a scheduler that causes the devices to process laboratory samples in accordance with programmed processes, wherein at least a process from among the programmed processes involves use of more than one of the devices to perform a set of operations on the laboratory samples; logic that detects an error occurring in a process controlled by the scheduler; logic that accepts a user-defined error handling routine for the error; and logic that executes the user-defined error handling routine when the error is encountered. 17. The laboratory automation system of claim 16, wherein at least a process from among the programmed processes includes tasks performed on a first laboratory sample sequentially by more than one device from among the set of devices. 18. The laboratory automation system of claim 16, wherein at least a task from among the tasks includes moving the laboratory sample from a first device to a second device. 19. The laboratory automation system of claim 16, including a chassis coupled to the set of devices of the system that allows for installation and movement of the system as a unit. 20. The laboratory automation system of claim 16, wherein the devices include a device that moves the laboratory samples to at least one other device. 21. The laboratory automation system of claim 16, wherein at least a process from among the programmed processes includes moving a laboratory sample to a device, and adding liquid to a laboratory sample holding container. 22. The laboratory automation system of claim 16, wherein a device from the set of devices includes (a) a notch sensor that detects orientation of a notch on a sample holding container and logic that determines presence of the error based on output of the notch sensor, (b) a bar code reader and logic that determines presence of the error based on the bar code reader, (c) a sensor and logic that determines presence of the error based on sensing whether a laboratory sample holder is present, and (d) an air pressure sensor and logic that determines presence of the error based on output of the air pressure sensor. 23. The laboratory automation system of claim 16, further including logic that causes execution of the user-defined error handling routine when the error is encountered in a particular process in which the error occurred and does not cause execution of the user-defined error handling routine when the error occurs in at least one other process. 24. The laboratory automation system of claim 16, further including logic that allows a user to associate the user-defined error handling routine with at least a particular process for which the user-defined error handling routine will be executed when the error is encountered. 25. The laboratory automation system of claim 16, further including logic that applies to another error an error handling routine not provided by a user when the error handling routine not provided by the user is applicable to the error, and otherwise allows the user to provide the user-defined error handling routine. 26. The laboratory automation system of claim 16, wherein the devices include at least a device from a set consisting of a robotic movement device, a sample storage device, a sealer, a liquid dispenser, a labeler, a centrifugation device, and a sample reader. 27. The laboratory automation system of claim 16, including logic that causes a graphical user interface to be displayed, the graphical interface including a user-defined error handling routines that was accepted and stored by the system. 28. A method of laboratory automation comprising: performing a programmed process on laboratory samples, the process including steps performed by various electronically controlled devices; detecting an error occurring in the process; prompting a user for an error handling routine for the error; and executing the error handling routine when the error later occurs, wherein the method further includes executing the error handling routine when the error is encountered in the particular process in which the error occurred and not executing the error handling routine when the same error occurs in at least one other process. 29. The method of laboratory automation of claim 28, further including accepting user selection of an error handling routine to be applied to at least a programmed process other than the process in which the error on which the routine was based was encountered. 30. The method of laboratory automation of claim 28, further including alerting a remote user of the error. 31. A computer implemented software program product, comprising a tangible computer storage medium having thereon computer-readable computer software code that: causes a programmed process to be performed on laboratory samples, the process including steps performed by various electronically controlled devices; receives an indication that an error has occurred in the process; prompts a user for an error handling routine for the error; and causes the error handling routine to be executed when the error later occurs, and further including computer-readable computer software code that causes the error handling routine to be executed when the error is encountered in the process in which the error occurred and not to execute the error handling routine when the same error occurs in at least one other process. 32. The computer-implemented software program product of claim 31, further including computer-readable computer code that accepts user selection of application of the error handling routine to at least a programmed process other than the process in which the error on which the routine was based was encountered. 33. The computer-implemented software program product of claim 31, further including computer-readable computer code that causes a remote user to be alerted of the error. 