The present invention provides a robotic surgical tool for use in a robotic surgical system to perform a surgical operation. The robotic surgical tool includes a wrist mechanism disposed near the distal end of a shaft which connects with an end effector. The wrist mechanism includes a distal member configured to support the end effector, and a plurality of rods extending generally along an axial direction within the shaft and movable generally along this axial direction to adjust the orientation of the distal member with respect to the shaft. Advancement or retraction of a first rod generally along the axial direction tips the base through a first angle. The addition of a second angle allows the distal member to direct the end effector in essentially a compound angle. The robotic surgical tool may also include provisions for roll movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical tool comprising: a distal member configured to support an end effector; a plurality of rods mechanically coupled to the distal member and movable generally along an axial direction to adjust an orientation of the distal member with respect to the axial direction; and a tool base including a first rotational actuation mechanism mechanically coupled to at least one of the plurality of rods so as to control movement of the at least one rod generally along the axial direction, and a roll actuation mechanism mechanically coupled to the distal member to control rotation of the distal member about the axial direction, wherein first and second rods of the plurality of rods are coupled to the first rotational actuation mechanism so that rotation of the first rotational actuation mechanism in a first direction causes advancement of the first rod and retraction of the second rod, the first rotational actuation mechanism includes a first sector gear and a first pitch/yaw gear, the first sector gear having an axis of rotation and two pivot pins positioned on opposite sides of the axis of rotation, the first and second rods are respectively connected to the two pivot pins so as to advance and retract the first and second rods when the first sector gear is rotated about the axis of rotation, the first pitch/yaw gear engaged with the first sector gear so as to controllably rotate the first sector gear. 2. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 1, wherein rotation of the first rotational actuation mechanism in a second direction causes retraction of the first rod and advancement of the second rod. 3. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 2, further comprising: a second rotational actuation mechanism, wherein third and fourth of the plurality of rods are coupled to the second rotational actuation mechanism so that rotation of the second rotational actuation mechanism in the first direction causes advancement of the third rod and retraction of the fourth rod. 4. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 3, wherein rotation of the second rotational actuation mechanism in the second direction causes retraction of the third rod and advancement of the fourth rod. 5. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 4, wherein the first and second rods are positioned diametrically opposite each other relative to an axis of rotation of the first rotational actuation mechanism, and the third and fourth rods are positioned diametrically opposite to each other relative to an axis of rotation of the second rotational actuation mechanism. 6. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 1, wherein a corresponding pair of the plurality of rods is coupled to the first rotational actuation mechanism in diametrically opposed positions so that rotation of the first rotational actuation mechanism causes the corresponding pair of rods to move in opposite directions. 7. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 6, wherein distal ends of the corresponding pair of the plurality of rods are connected to a base of the distal member so that the distal ends rotate about the axial direction when the distal member is rotated about the axial direction by the roll actuation mechanism. 8. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 7, wherein proximal ends of the corresponding pair of the plurality of rods are substantially held in place so that when the distal member is rotated about the axial direction by the roll actuation mechanism, the proximal ends of the corresponding pair of rods do not substantially rotate about the axial direction and flex to accommodate such rotation. 9. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 1, wherein the roll actuation mechanism comprises: a roll pulley mechanically coupled to the distal member so as to rotate the distal member about the axial direction when the roll pulley is rotated; and a roll gear engaged with the roll pulley so as to controllably rotate the roll pulley. 10. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 9, wherein the first and second rods pass through an inner passage of the roll pulley in order to mechanically couple to the first rotational actuation mechanism. 11. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 10, further comprising: a second rotational actuation mechanism, wherein third and fourth of the plurality of rods are coupled to the second rotational actuation mechanism so that rotation of the second rotational actuation mechanism in the first direction causes advancement of the third rod and retraction of the fourth rod. 12. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 11, wherein the second rotational actuation mechanism comprises: a second sector gear having an axis of rotation and two pivot pins positioned on opposite sides of the axis of rotation, wherein the third and fourth rods are respectively connected to the two pivot pins of the second sector gear so as to advance and refract the third and fourth rods when the second sector gear is rotated about the axis of rotation; and a second pitch/yaw gear engaged with the second sector gear so as to controllably rotate the second sector gear. 13. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 12, wherein the plurality of rods are mechanically coupled to corresponding of the pivot pins of the first and second sector gears on facing sides of the first and second sector gears. 14. The robotic surgical tool according to claim 13, wherein the first and second sector gears are mounted on a common sector pivot pin. 