An apparatus and method for characterizing gas flow through features fabricated in a hollow part. A pressure regulated cooled gas is applied to an interior of the part to the features fabricated in the part. At the same time, a pressure regulated heated gas is applied to an exterior part skin; and the heated gas has a controlled temperature differential from the pressure regulated cooled gas applied to the part interior. An infrared signature of escaping gas and the surrounding part skin is analyzed by a classification method to identify acceptable and unacceptable fabricated features.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for inspecting features extending from a cavity within a structure to an outer surface of the structure, the apparatus comprising: a thermal imaging device comprising a lens; a positioning system for supporting the thermal imaging device and operable to position the lens at a desired position and orientation with respect to one of the features; a heating component supported by the positioning system and operable to heat an area of the outer surface around the one of the features; a first source of gas; a flow controller connected to the first source of gas and operable to supply a pressure regulated flow of gas; a chiller receiving the pressure regulated flow of gas and providing a pressure regulated flow of cooled gas into the cavity and to the one of the features; and a programmable control in electrical communications with the thermal imaging device, the positioning system, the heating component, the flow controller and the chiller and operable to first heat the outer surface around the one of the features and thereafter cause the pressure regulated of cooled gas to flow into the cavity, the control being further operable to cause the thermal imaging device to capture and save thermal images of the outer surface including the one of the features. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the heating component is mounted on the thermal imaging device. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the heating component is mounted circumferentially around the lens of the thermal imaging device. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the heating component heats the area of the outer surface by thermal radiation. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the heating component heats the area of the outer surface by thermal convection. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the heating component comprises: a second source of gas; a flow controller connected to the second source of gas and operable to supply a second pressure regulated flow of gas; and a heater receiving the second pressure regulated flow of gas and providing a pressure regulated flow of heated gas onto the outer surface around the one of the features. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the heating component further comprises: a plurality of nozzles mounted circumferentially around the lens of the thermal imaging device, the plurality of nozzles being in fluid communication with the pressure regulated flow of heated gas; and a plurality of infrared emitters mounted circumferentially around the lens of the thermal imaging device. 8. A method of inspecting features extending from a cavity within a structure to an outer surface of the structure, the method comprising: (a) positioning a thermal imaging device at a desired position and orientation with respect to one of the features; (b) heating an area of the outer surface including the one of the features; (c) thereafter, initiating a pressure regulated flow of a cooled gas into the cavity to the one of the features; (d) thereafter, capturing a first thermal image of the area of the outer surface including the one of the features; and (e) saving the first thermal image; (f) terminating the pressure regulated flow of the cooled gas; and (h) iterating steps (a)-(f) for others of the features. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein heating an area of the outer surface continues for a programmable period of time before initiating a pressure regulated flow of a cooled gas. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the pressure regulated flow of a cooled gas continues for a programmable period of time before capturing a first thermal image. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the method further comprises capturing and saving a second thermal image of the area of the outer surface a programmable period of time after capturing the first thermal image. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein capturing a first thermal image comprises capturing a plurality of first thermal images of the area of the outer surface starting immediately after initiating a pressure regulated flow of a cooled gas. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the method further comprises capturing and saving a plurality of second thermal images of the area of the outer surface while heating an area of the outer surface. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein capturing a plurality of second thermal images further comprises: capturing one of the second thermal images; pausing for a first period of time; capturing another of the second thermal images; and iterating the steps of capturing, pausing and capturing for a second period of time. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the method further comprises analyzing at least one of the first and the second thermal images to identify a qualitative characteristic of the one of the feature. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein capturing a plurality of first thermal images further comprises: capturing one of the first thermal images; pausing for a first period of time; capturing another of the first thermal images; and iterating the steps of capturing, pausing and capturing for a second period of time. 17. The method of claim 8 wherein heating an area of the outer surface comprises heating the area of the outer surface by thermal radiation. 18. The method of claim 8 wherein heating an area of the outer surface comprises heating the area of the outer surface by thermal convection. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein heating an area of the outer surface further comprises heating the area of the outer surface by thermal radiation. 20. The method of claim 8 wherein heating an area of the outer surface comprises initiating a pressure regulated flow of a heated gas over the area of the outer surface. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the heated gas and the cooled gas are air. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein the heated gas is air and the cooled gas is helium. 