An exemplary ion source for creating a stream of ions has a chamber body that at least partially bounds an ionization region of the arc chamber. The arc chamber body is used with a hot filament arc chamber housing that either directly or indirectly heats a cathode to sufficient temperature to cause electrons to stream through the ionization region of the arc chamber. A seals has a ceramic body having an outer wall that abuts the arc chamber body along a circumferential outer lip. The seal also has one or more radially inner channels bounded by one or more inner walls spaced inwardly from the outer wall.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Apparatus comprising: a) an arc chamber body having a chamber interior bound by chamber walls providing a confined region for generating ions from a source gas within the confined region and having an exit through which ions exit the arc chamber body; said arc chamber body including an access opening passing through a chamber wall of the chamber body for routing ionization energy from outside the arc chamber to the chamber interior; b) a cathode supported in relation to the chamber interior for injecting ionizing electrons into the confined region for ionizing gas in the chamber interior when energized by energization signals entering the chamber through the access opening; c) an electrically insulating seal comprising a ceramic body having an exterior wall that abuts an outer surface of the arc chamber body and circumferentially bounds the access opening which passes through the chamber wall for impeding material from exiting the chamber interior through the access opening of the arc chamber body. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the arc chamber body has an additional access opening and a further comprising a repeller extending through the additional access opening into the chamber interior for prolonging electron movement within the confined region of the chamber interior by deflecting the electrons as they move through the chamber interior and further comprising an additional electrically insulating seal engaging an outer surface of the arc chamber body for impeding material from exiting the chamber interior through the additional access opening of the arc chamber body. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the seal comprises a curved wall bounding one or more inner channels spaced outwardly from a central throughpassage of the seal. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the inner channels are curved and extend around the central throughpassage. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the seal is constructed of two seal portions that mate along an engagement surface. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the seal comprises two generally symmetric half ceramic seal portions. 7. A seal for impeding gas flow from an arc chamber comprising: a ceramic body including i) an outer wall that includes a bounding wall having an outer surface for abutting an arc chamber body along a sealing surface and which bounds a throughpassage extending through the ceramic body for routing electrode energization signals into the arc chamber ii) an outer wall spaced from the bounding wall and iii) one or more one or more interior walls that extend away from the outer wall that define a cavity in the ceramic body having one or more channels that increase a surface area of exposed interior walls and which communicates with a portion of an arc chamber interior and collect material in the arc chamber interior. 8. The structure of claim 7 wherein the ceramic body is formed of two parts that mate along a contact surface. 9. A seal for impeding gas flow from an arc chamber comprising: a ceramic body including i) a bounding wall having an outer surface for abutting an arc chamber body along a sealing surface and which bounds a throughpassage extending through the ceramic body for routing electrode energization signals into the arc chamber and ii) one or more one or more cylindrical interior walls that bound a cylindrical channel or channels that define a cavity in the ceramic body and which communicates with a portion of an arc chamber interior for collecting material exiting the arc chamber interior through the throughpassage. 10. A seal for impeding gas flow from an arc chamber comprising: a ceramic body including i) a bounding wall having an outer surface for abutting an arc chamber body along a sealing surface and which bounds a throughpassage extending through the ceramic body for routing electrode energization signals into the arc chamber ii) an exterior wall spaced from the bounding wall and has a smaller opening in the exterior wall than a size of the throughpassage extending through the bounding wall and iii) one or more one or more interior walls that define a cavity in the ceramic body and which communicates with a portion of an arc chamber interior and collects material in the arc chamber interior. 11. The structure of claim 10 wherein the exterior wall bounds a base of the cavity and one or more interior walls extend away from the base to increase the surface area of the cavity. 12. The structure of claim 11 wherein in a region of the exterior wall the throughpassage is circular and is bound by a lip radially inward of the interior walls. 13. For use in an ion implanter, an ion source comprising: a) an arc chamber body for generating ions in a chamber interior having an exit for allowing ions generated inside the chamber interior to exit the arc chamber body and a cathode opening extending through a wall of the arc chamber body for positioning a cathode with respect to said chamber interior; b) a cathode supported in communication with the chamber interior for injecting ionizing electrons for movement through the chamber interior; c) a seal that contacts an outer surface of the arc chamber body and impedes material from exiting the chamber through the cathode opening in said arc chamber body comprising a ceramic body having a wall that abuts the chamber body and further defining one or more inner channels bounded by one or more inner walls recessed from an interface between the seal and the chamber body and spaced outwardly from a region occupied by the cathode. 14. For use in an ion implanter, a method for sealing an ion source comprising: a) generating ions in a chamber interior having an exit for allowing ions generated inside the chamber interior to exit an arc chamber body; b) supporting a cathode within a cathode opening which extends through a chamber wall bounding the chamber interior for injecting ionizing electrons for movement through the chamber interior; c) sealing an outer surface of the arc chamber body for impeding material from exiting the chamber through said cathode opening in said arc chamber body by positioning a ceramic body having an outer wall in abutting relation to the chamber body and further spacing one or more radially inner channels bounded by one or more recessed inner walls spaced from a region occupied by a cathode support to collect material from the chamber in said channels. 