An intrinsically stable neuromorphic motion controller comprising of two an agonistic actuators coupled with paired torque and position sensors. Each mechanical linkage having at least one degree of freedom is actuated by two motors via two flexible tendons with built-in stretch (torque) sensors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A neuromorphic motion controller comprising: (a) a movable joint having at least one degree of rotational or transitional freedom and an inducer operatively interconnected with the joint; (b) a flexor channel comprising of a first actuator operatively connected via a flexor tendon to the joint; (c) a flexor stretch sensor operatively connected with the flexor tendon; (d) an extensor channel comprising of a second actuator operatively connected via extensor tendon to the joint; (e) an extensor stretch sensor operatively connected to the extensor tendon; (f) a flexor channel positional transducer coupled to the inducer, wherein the flexor channel positional transducer is adapted to produce a flexor positional response characteristic; (g) an extensor channel positional transducer coupled to the inducer, wherein the extensor channel positional transducer is adapted to produce an extensor positional response characteristic; (h) module adapted to calculate a difference of products of outputs of the first and second stretch and positional sensors of the extensor channel and the flexor channel by: E=.omega..sub.f*.theta..sub.f*T.sub.f-.omega..sub.e*.theta..sub.e*T.sub.e- ; wherein E comprises a energy characteristics of the joint; wherein Wf comprises a flexor weight multiplier coefficient and We comprises an extensor weight multiplier coefficient; wherein Of comprises an output of a flexor positional sensor and 0e comprises an output of a extensor positional sensor; and wherein Tf comprises an output of the first stretch sensor and Te comprises an output of the second stretch sensor, wherein the first and second actuators operate antagonistically to each other; wherein the flexor response characteristic and the extensor response characteristic are combined to produce a neuromorphic motion controller response characteristic that produces a winner take all operation on flexor-extensor response; and wherein the neuromorphic motion controller is at a zero attractor point at a point of intersection of the extensor positional response characteristic and the flexor positional response characteristic on the combined response characteristic. 2. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 1 wherein the first and second stretch sensors comprise, spring loaded transducers. 3. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 1 wherein the first and second stretch sensors comprise spring-loaded Hall-effect transducers. 4. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 1 wherein the flexor channel transducer and the extensor channel transducer are arranged so that when the inducer generates a maximum response in the flexor channel transducer, a minimum response is generated in the extensor channel transducer. 5. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 4 wherein the extensor positional response characteristic and the flexor positional response characteristic are sigmoid shaped. 6. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 1 wherein the flexor channel transducer and the extensor channel transducer are arranged so that when the inducer generates a maximum response in the extensor channel transducer, a minimum response is generated for the flexor channel transducer. 7. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 1 wherein a soft lock point is associated with the joint by generating a dip in at least one of the extensor response characteristic and the flexor response characteristic. 8. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 1 wherein one of the extensor response characteristic and the flexor response characteristic is biased from an original state to thereby form an offset attractor. 9. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 8 wherein the offset attractor causes the joint to drift to a location defined by the offset attractor. 10. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 8 wherein a flexor stretch sensor output and a extensor stretch sensor output are fed back into inputs of flexor and extensor channels correspondingly providing means for optimal force-feedback loop. 11. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 10 further comprising a first energy input to accept an energy characteristics E.sub.i-1 of a first attached neuromorphic motion controller and a second energy input to accept an energy characteristics E.sub.i-1 of a second attached neuromorphic motion controller. 12. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 11 further comprising: means for receiving a first input energy state E.sub.i-1 from a first neuromorphic motion controller and a second input energy stat E.sub.i+1 from a second neuromorphic motion controller to adjust the position of an offset attractor in order to minimize one or both inputs E.sub.i-1 and E.sub.i+1; and means for receiving a parameter defining a desired behavioral pattern. 13. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 12, when a neuromorphic motion controller is adapted to receive an input energy state from another neuromorphic motion controller. 14. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 1 further comprising a module adapted to receive a first input energy state from a first neuromorphic motion controller and a second input energy state from a second neuromorphic motion controller, the module further adapted to receive a parameter defining a desired behavioral pattern. 15. A neuromorphic motion controller comprising: a joint operatively connected to a flexor channel and an extensor channel; an inducer operatively interconnected with the joint, the inducer coupled to means for producing a flexor response characteristic and means for producing an extensor response characteristic; means for combining the flexor response characteristic and the extensor response characteristic to form a combined response characteristic; and wherein the point of equilibrium exists for the joint at a point of intersection of the extensor response characteristic and the flexor response characteristic on the combined response characteristic. 16. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 15 wherein one of the extensor response characteristic and the flexor response characteristic is biased from an original state to thereby form an offset attractor. 17. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 16 wherein the offset attractor causes the joint to drift to a location defined by the offset attractor. 18. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 15 further comprising means for biasing one of the extensor response characteristic and the flexor response characteristic from an original state to thereby form an offset attractor. 19. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 15 further comprising: means for receiving a first input energy state from a first neuromorphic motion controller and a second input energy state from a second neuromorphic motion controller; and means for receiving a parameter defining a desired behavioral pattern. 20. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 15 wherein the flexor channel transducer and the extensor channel transducer are arranged so that when the inducer generates a maximum response characteristic for the flexor channel transducer, a minimum response characteristic is generated for the extensor channel transducer. 21. The neuromorphic motion controller of claim 15 wherein the flexor channel transducer and the extensor channel transducer are arranged so that when the inducer generates a maximum response characteristic for the extensor channel transducer, a minimum response characteristic is generated for the flexor channel transducer. 22. A method for neuromorphically controlling motion of a joint comprising the steps of: sensing a flexor response characteristic of a flexor interconnected with the joint; sensing a response characteristic of a tendon interconnected with the joint; combing the flexor response characteristic and the flexor response and thereby driving a combined response characteristic; and establishing an equilibrium point at a point of intersection of the flexor response characteristic and the flexor response characteristic on the desired response characteristic. 23. A system for controlling a joint comprising: a combiner that receives and combines a flexor response characteristic associated with the joint and a exterior response characteristic associated with the joint and a an extensor response characteristic associated with the joint into a combined response characteristic; and wherein the joint is in equilibrium at a point in which the flexor response characteristic and the exterior response characteristic intersect the combined characteristic. 