There are described methods and apparatus for assessing foams generated from liquids. Existing methods are slow and labor intensive. The new methods involve generating foams from liquids and optically obtaining information to enable parameters relating to the generated foam to be measured. Although single samples of liquids may be processed the methods are particularly suited to processing multiple samples to obtain data relating to foams at a high rate. The apparatus includes automated handling equipment to enable samples to be moved between workstations and relative to associated optical equipment that is used to obtain information relating to the foams.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of assessing foam generated from a liquid comprising: a) introducing a measured quantity of the liquid into at least one tube; b) passing a gas of a predetermined flow rate through the liquid to generate foam; c) sensing the presence of foam using an opto-electronic that is positioned proximate the exterior of the at least one tube; and d) controlling the flow rate of said passing gas based on a signal from either said sensor or a timer or both. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the signal is generated upon the sensor detecting the presence of foam. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the signal is generated from the timer that is set for a predetermined period of time. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein controlling the flow rate of said passing gas includes stopping said flow rate. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor detecting the presence of the foam generated is proximate the air/foam interface. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the position of either the tube or the sensor, or both, relative to each other, to enable the sensor to sense the presence of foam. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the adjusted position of the sensor enables detection of the foam proximate either the air/foam or foam/liquid interface. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the position of the tube is adjusted. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the position of the sensor is adjusted. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor is a photodiode turbidity detector capable of sensing the presence of foam proximate the air/foam interface. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor is a photodiode turbidity detector capable of sensing the presence of foam proximate the foam/liquid interface. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: a) capturing an image of the foam with at least one camera; and b) analyzing the captured image for foam quality parameters. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least one camera is a COD camera. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one tube is two but not more than 100 tubes. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is assessing foam generated from a plurality of liquids, comprising more than 1 but not more than 100 liquids. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of liquids are assessed in parallel. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the plurality of liquids are assessed using a high-throughput screening apparatus comprising a plurality of workstations and a robotic arm having access to the workstations. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of workstations comprises: i) a first workstation, wherein one or more racks of tubes are located and cleaned; ii) a second workstation, wherein a liquid dispensing means is located, comprising a plurality of liquid dispensors; iii) a third workstation, wherein cleaning tubes are locatable; iv) a fourth workstation, having a parking location for receiving a gas diffuser means can be placed within a liquid such that gas can be passed through the liquid to generate foam, and having a means to control the flow of gas passed through the liquid, and v) a fifth workstation, having more than one sensor capable of sensing foam generated from a liquid located in the tube. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of liquids are assessed sequentially. 