The present invention is a wafer engine for transporting wafers. The wafer engine includes a linear drive for moving the wafer along an x axis, a rotational drive for rotating the wafer about a theta axis, a linear drive for moving the wafer along a z axis, and a linear drive for moving the wafer along a radial axis. The linear drive for moving the wafer along a z axis is offset from the rotational drive. When the rotational drive rotates about the theta axis, both the z axis and radial axis drives are also rotated about the theta axis. Preferably, the linear drive for moving the wafer along a radial axis is a dual or rapid swap slide body mechanism having an upper and lower end effector. The slide body mechanism preferably also has means to align the wafer and perform various inspection and marking procedures.
Claims We claim: 1. A module having a workpiece engine for moving a workpiece, comprising: an equipment front end module (EFEM) having a plurality of port doors along a horizontal axis; a slide body disposed in the EFEM substantially enclosing a first drive mechanism, said first drive mechanism for moving an end effector between a retracted position and an extended position, the slide body moveably attached to a rail extending along a surface below the plurality of port doors, and an elevator, including: a horizontally oriented base having a proximal end and a distal end; a rotational drive coupled with said distal end of said base, said rotational drive for rotating said base about a vertical theta axis; a support member having a first end and a second end, the first end secured to said slide body; a single vertical column extending from said proximal end of said base to a distal end, said single vertical column offset from and rotating about said vertical theta axis, said single vertical column enclosing a second drive mechanism for moving said support member vertically between said base and said distal end of said single vertical column, wherein the second end of the support member is secured to the second drive mechanism. 2. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 1, further including a third drive mechanism coupled with said rotational drive for moving said elevator horizontally. 3. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 1, wherein said slide body includes a gas-flow slot. 4. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 3, further including a fan/filter unit for drawing gas into said slide body through said gas-flow slot. 5. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 4, wherein said fan/filter unit re-circulates filtered gas back into a clean portion of a mini-environment surrounding said slide body. 6. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 1, wherein said slide body is substantially orthogonal to said single vertical column. 7. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 1, wherein a center of rotation of said slide body is offset from said vertical theta axis and said slide body travels a length of said single vertical column. 8. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 1, further including a first and a second end effector. 9. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 1, wherein said slide body includes at least one component selected from the group consisting of (i) a workpiece ID reader, (ii) a workpiece aligner, (iii) a workpiece notch detector, (iv) a workpiece edge detector, (v) a workpiece marking tool, (vi) a workpiece processing module, (vii) a workpiece inspection device, (viii) an environmental control device, and (ix) a measurement instrument. 10. A module having a workpiece engine for moving a workpiece within a clean region of a mini-environment, comprising: an equipment front end module (EFEM) having a plurality of port doors along a horizontal axis; a first drive mechanism for moving an end effector between a retracted position and an extended position, said first drive mechanism enclosed in a housing, the first drive mechanism and the end effector moveably attached to a rail extending along a surface below the plurality of port doors; an elevator, including: a horizontally oriented base having a proximal end and a distal end; a support member having a first end and a second end, the first end secured to said housing; a single vertical column extending from said proximal end of said base and having a distal end, said single vertical column offset from and rotating about a vertical theta axis, said single vertical column substantially enclosing a second drive mechanism for moving said housing vertically between said base and said distal end of said single vertical column, wherein the second end of the support member is secured to the second drive mechanism; a rotational drive coupled with said distal end of said base, said rotational drive for rotating said base about said vertical theta axis; a fan/filter unit coupled with said housing; and said housing offset horizontally with respect to said single vertical column. 11. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 10, wherein said housing is detachably secured to said second drive mechanism. 12. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 10, further including a third drive mechanism, coupled with said rotational drive, for moving the workpiece engine horizontally. 13. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 12, wherein said third drive mechanism comprises: a linear rail; a workpiece engine mount being adapted to couple with said rotational drive; and a motor assembly for moving said workpiece engine mount along said linear rail. 14. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 10, wherein said housing includes a gas-flow slot. 15. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 14, wherein said fan/filter unit draws gas into said housing through said gas-flow slot and re-circulates the gas back into a clean region of the mini-environment surrounding said housing. 16. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 10, wherein a center of rotation of said slide body is offset from said vertical theta axis and said slide body travels a length of said single vertical column. 17. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 10, wherein said housing includes at least one component selected from the group consisting of (i) a workpiece ID reader, (ii) a workpiece aligner, (iii) a workpiece notch detector, (iv) a workpiece edge detector, (v) a workpiece marking tool, (vi) a workpiece processing module, (vii) a workpiece inspection device, (viii) an environmental control device, and (ix) a measurement instrument. 18. A module containing a workpiece engine, comprising: an equipment front end module (EFEM) having a plurality of port doors along a horizontal axis; an end effector; a slide body substantially enclosing a first drive mechanism for moving said end effector between a retracted position and an extended position, the slide body moveably attached to a rail extending along a surface below the plurality of port doors; an elevator, including: a horizontally oriented base having a first end and a second end; a support member having a first end and a second end, the first end secured to said slide body; a single vertical column extending from said first end of said base and having a distal end, said single vertical column offset from and rotating about said vertical theta axis, said single vertical column enclosing a second drive mechanism for moving said support member vertically between said base and said distal end of said single vertical column, wherein the second end of the support member is secured to the second drive mechanism; and a third drive mechanism, coupled with said base, for moving said elevator horizontally. 19. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 18, wherein said slide body includes a gas-flow slot. 20. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 19, further including a fan/filter unit for drawing gas into said slide body through said gas-flow slot and re-circulating filtered gas back into a clean region of a mini-environment surrounding said slide body. 21. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 18, wherein said third drive mechanism comprises: a linear rail; a workpiece engine mount being adapted to couple with said base; and a motor assembly for moving said workpiece engine mount along said linear rail. 22. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 18, wherein said slide body includes at least one component selected from the group consisting of (i) a workpiece ID reader, (ii) a workpiece aligner, (iii) a workpiece notch detector, (iv) a workpiece edge detector, (v) a workpiece marking tool, (vi) a workpiece processing module, (vii) a workpiece inspection device, (viii) an environmental control device, and (ix) a measurement instrument. 23. A module containing a wafer engine for moving a semiconductor wafer, comprising: an equipment front end module (EFEM) having a plurality of port doors along a horizontal axis; an elevator, including: a horizontally oriented base having a proximal end and a distal end, said base including a rotational drive coupled to said distal end for rotating said base about a vertical theta axis; a support member having a first end and a second end, the first end secured to a slide body; a single vertical column extending from said proximal end of said base to a distal end, said single vertical column enclosing a first drive mechanism for moving said support member vertically between said base and said distal end of said single vertical column, said single vertical column offset from and rotating about said vertical theta axis, wherein the second end of the support member is secured to the second drive mechanism; said slide body coupled with said support member, said slide body substantially enclosing a second drive mechanism for moving an end effector between a retracted position and an extended position, the slide body moveably attached to a rail extending along a surface below the plurality of port doors. 24. The wafer engine as recited in claim 23, wherein said slide body includes a gas-flow slot. 25. The wafer engine as recited in claim 24, further including a fan/filter unit for drawing gas into said slide body through said gas-flow slot and filtering the gas. 26. The wafer engine as recited in claim 25, wherein said fan/filter unit re-circulates the filtered-gas back into a clean region of a mini-environment surrounding said slide body. 27. The wafer engine as recited in claim 23, wherein a center of rotation of said slide body is offset from said vertical theta axis and said slide body travels a length of said single vertical column. 28. The wafer engine as recited in claim 23, wherein said slide body includes at least one component selected from the group consisting of (i) a workpiece ID reader, (ii) a workpiece aligner, (iii) a workpiece notch detector, (iv) a workpiece edge detector, (v) a workpiece marking tool, (vi) a workpiece processing module, (vii) a workpiece inspection device, (viii) an environmental control device, and (ix) a measurement instrument. 29. The wafer engine as recited in claim 23, wherein said single vertical column includes a gas-flow slot. 30. The wafer engine as recited in claim 29, further including an exhaust device for drawing gas into said gas-flow slot in said single vertical column, through said base and exhausting the gas external to the wafer engine. 31. The wafer engine as recited in claim 23, further including a wafer engine support coupled with said base. 32. The wafer engine as recited in claim 31, further including a linear drive mechanism coupled with said wafer engine support for moving said wafer engine support horizontally. 33. A workpiece engine for moving a workpiece, comprising: an equipment front end module (EFEM) having a plurality of port doors along a horizontal axis; an elevator, including: a horizontally oriented base; a support member having a first end and a second end, the first end secured to a slide body; a single vertical column extending from said base to a distal end and enclosing a first drive mechanism, said first drive mechanism for moving said support member vertically between said base and said distal end of said single vertical column, said single vertical column offset from and rotating about said vertical theta axis, wherein the second end of the support member is secured to the first drive mechanism; a rotational drive coupled with said base, said rotational drive for rotating said base about a vertical theta axis; said slide body substantially enclosing a second drive mechanism for moving an end effector mount between a retracted position and an extended position, the slide body moveably attached to a rail extending along a surface below the plurality of port doors; and wherein said slide body, when secured to said support member, is offset with respect to a vertical plane passing through said vertical theta axis and a central portion of said single vertical column. 34. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 33, wherein said slide body includes a gas-flow slot. 35. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 34, further including a fan/filter unit for drawing gas into said slide body through said gas-flow slot and filtering the gas. 36. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 35, wherein said fan/filter unit re-circulates the filtered-gas back into a clean region of a mini-environment surrounding said slide body. 37. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 33, wherein a center of rotation of said slide body is offset from said vertical theta axis and said slide body travels a length of said single vertical column. 38. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 33, wherein said slide body includes at least one component selected from the group consisting of (i) a workpiece ID reader, (ii) a workpiece aligner, (iii) a workpiece notch detector, (iv) a workpiece edge detector, (v) a workpiece marking tool, (vi) a workpiece processing module, (vii) a workpiece inspection device, (viii) an environmental control device, and (ix) a measurement instrument. 39. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 33, wherein said single vertical column includes a gas-flow slot. 40. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 39, further including an exhaust device for drawing gas into said gas-flow slot in said single vertical column, through said base and exhausting the gas external to the wafer engine. 41. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 33, further including a workpiece engine support coupled with said base. 42. The workpiece engine as recited in claim 41, further including a linear drive mechanism coupled with said workpiece engine support for moving said workpiece engine support horizontally. 