A radiosurgery system is described that delivers a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, ocular structures are placed in a global coordinate system, based on ocular imaging, which leads to direction of an automated positioning system. In some embodiments, the position of an ocular structure is tracked and related to a radiosurgery system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilized for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial aids in positioning the system. In some embodiments, a reflection off the eye is used to aid in positioning. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method, of planning radiation therapy for an eye, comprising: preparing a treatment plan for delivery of radiation to a target at a region of the eye, the preparing comprising: determining a first dose of radiation to be delivered from a radiation source outside the eye to the target; determining at least one of a width of at least one x-ray radiation beam and a distance from the radiation source to the target, and determining a trajectory of the x-ray beam; and wherein the at least one of the width of the at least one x-ray radiation beam, the distance from the radiation source to the target, and the trajectory of the beam is selected such that an amount of radiation to be received outside the target from the radiation source is equal to or less than about 40 percent of the first dose; wherein determining the trajectory of the beam is based on at least a point on the retina and a point on an outer surface of the eye, and outputting information, to an output module, indicative of at least one of the width of the at least one x-ray radiation beam, the distance from the radiation source to the target, and the trajectory of the beam; and wherein the x-ray beam has a maximum energy of less than about 400 keV. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the target comprises a region of the retina, and at least one of the optic nerve and the lens of the eye is outside the target. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the region of the retina comprises the macula. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the amount of radiation to be received outside the target is equal to or less than 20 percent of the first dose. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the amount of radiation to be received outside the target is equal to or less than 10 percent of the first dose. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the amount of radiation to be received outside the target is equal to or less than 5 percent of the first dose. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the amount of radiation to be received outside the target is equal to or less than 1 percent of the first dose. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the output module comprises at least one of a computer monitor, an LCD, an LED, a handheld device, a paper, a computer-readable medium, a computer-executable instruction, and a communication link to the radiation source. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising delivering thermal energy to the eye during a period of between about 10 days before and about 3 days after delivery of approximately the first dose to the target. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising delivering approximately the first dose to the target. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: collimating, with a collimator, the at least one radiation beam; and delivering approximately the first dose to the target while the collimator is positioned within about 25 centimeters of the target. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising collimating the at least one radiation beam to a cross-sectional dimension of less than about 6 mm. 13. The method of claim 10, further comprising collimating the at least one radiation beam to a geometric cross-sectional shape. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the geometric cross-sectional shape comprises at least one of an ellipse, a circle, a ring, concentric rings, a polygon, and a crescent. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first dose and the second dose is determined by a Monte Carlo simulation. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first dose and the second dose is determined based on a surface-to-depth beam energy representation. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the amount of radiation to be received outside the target is determined based on tracing diverging rays from an x-ray source with a maximum beam energy less than about 250 keV. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining trajectories of a plurality of radiation beams to be delivered to the target, such that each of the plurality of beams traverses the sclera of the eye at a respective traversal zone; and wherein none of the traversal zones overlaps substantially with any other traversal zone. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein at least one of the traversal zones overlaps with another traversal zone. 20. The method of claim 18, further comprising determining an amount of filtration of each of the plurality of radiation beams such that a dose of radiation to an exterior surface of the eye is less than 3 times a dose of radiation to be delivered to the target by each of the plurality of radiation beams, wherein each of the plurality of radiation beams has a maximum energy of from about 50 keV to about 300 keV. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising filtering each of the plurality of radiation beams with a filter that comprises a heavy metal. 22. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a current of from about 1 mA to about 40 mA to be applied to the radiation source, such that a therapeutic dose of radiation to the target is administered in less than about 30 minutes. 23. The method of claim 1, further comprising delivering the at least one radiation beam from a nasal direction to a temporal direction, or from an inferior direction to a superior direction, with respect to delivery from outside the eye to the target inside the eye. 24. A method, of planning radiation therapy for an eye, comprising: preparing a treatment plan for a delivery of radiation to a target at a region of the eye from at least one x-ray radiation beam, the preparing comprising: determining a first dose of radiation to be delivered from a radiation source outside the eye to the target; determining at least one of a width of the at least one x-ray radiation beam, a distance from the radiation source to the target, and determining a trajectory of the beam; and wherein the at least one of the width of the at least one x-ray radiation beam, the distance from the radiation source to the target, and the trajectory of the beam is selected to effect delivery of the first dose to the target such that a second dose of radiation, to be received from the radiation source at other eye tissue located less than about 6 mm from a center of the target, is equal to or less than about 40 percent of the first dose, wherein determining the trajectory of the beam is based on at least a point on the retina and a point on an outer surface of the eye; and outputting information, to an output module, indicative of at least one of the width of the at least one x-ray radiation beam, the distance from the radiation source to the target, and the trajectory of the beam. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the output module comprises at least one of a computer monitor, an LCD, an LED, a handheld device, a paper, a computer-readable medium, a computer-executable instruction, and a communication link to the radiation source. 26. The method of claim 24, further comprising delivering approximately the first dose of radiation to the target. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising: collimating, with a collimator, the at least one radiation beam; and delivering approximately the first dose to the target while the collimator is positioned within about 25 centimeters of the target. 28. The method of claim 26, further comprising collimating the at least one radiation beam to a cross-sectional dimension of less than about 6 mm. 29. The method of claim 26, further comprising collimating the at least one radiation beam to a cross-sectional shape of an ellipse, a circle, a ring, concentric rings, a polygon, or a crescent. 