A video game device calculates an angle of an object 71, etc., with respect to a reference direction in a three-dimensional space. Then, the video game device defines a virtual cylindrical model for each of a plurality of objects so that a bottom surface of each cylindrical model is perpendicular to the reference direction. The video game device defines a plurality of cylindrical models for a predetermined object if the inclination of the predetermined object with respect to the reference direction is greater than a predetermined angle. Then, the video game device determines whether or not the defined cylindrical models have an overlap therebetween. Then, if two cylindrical models are determined to be overlapping with each other, the video game device gives a predetermined change to the two objects in response to the collision.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-readable storage medium storing an image processing program to be executed by a computer of an image processing device for displaying, on a display device, a virtual three-dimensional space where there are a plurality of objects each having a cylindrical collision detection region defined therefor, wherein the image processing program instructs the computer to perform: an inclination angle calculation step of calculating an inclination of an object with respect to a predetermined reference direction in the three-dimensional space; a number-of-regions determining step of determining the number of cylindrical collision detection regions to be defined for the object according to the inclination of the object; and a collision detection region defining step of defining the determined number of collision detection regions for the object in an arrangement being determined according to the inclination of the object so that a bottom surface of each of the collision detection regions is perpendicular to the reference direction. 2. The storage medium according to claim 1, wherein the inclination calculated in the inclination calculation step is represented by an angle between the reference direction and a direction of a ground at a position where the object is located. 3. The storage medium according to claim 1, wherein the inclination calculated in the inclination calculation step is represented by an angle between a predetermined central axis of the object and the reference direction. 4. The storage medium according to claim 1, wherein in the number-of-regions determining step, the computer determines the number of regions to be defined for the object to be one if the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is less than a predetermined angle. 5. The storage medium according to claim 1, wherein in the number-of-regions determining step, the computer determines the number of regions to be defined for the object to be more than one if the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is greater than a predetermined angle. 6. The storage medium according to claim 4, wherein in the number-of-regions determining step, the computer determines the number of regions to be defined for the object to be more than one if the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is greater than the predetermined angle. 7. The storage medium according to claim 4, wherein a sum of bottom-surface diameters of the number of cylindrical collision detection regions defined for the object is greater than or equal to a height of a single cylindrical collision detection region to be defined for the object when the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is less than the predetermined angle. 8. The storage medium according to claim 6, wherein a sum of bottom-surface diameters of a plurality of cylindrical collision detection regions defined for the object when the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is greater than the predetermined angle is greater than or equal to a height of a single cylindrical collision detection region to be defined for the object when the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is less than the predetermined angle. 9. The storage medium according to claim 1, wherein if the number of regions is determined to be two or more in the number-of-regions determining step, the computer arranges, in the collision detection region defining step, the cylindrical collision detection regions defined for the object so that each collision detection region is in contact with at least one of the other collision detection regions and so that the collision detection regions are combined into a single integral region. 10. The storage medium according to claim 1, wherein the collision detection region defining step includes a size changing step of changing a size of the collision detection region defined for the object according to the angle of the object if the inclination of the object with respect to the reference direction is greater than a predetermined angle. 11. An image processing device for displaying, on a display device, a virtual three-dimensional space where there is at least one object each having a cylindrical collision detection region defined therefor, the image processing device comprising: inclination angle calculation means for calculating an inclination of an object with respect to a predetermined reference direction in the three-dimensional space; number-of-regions determining means for determining the number of cylindrical collision detection regions to be defined for the object according to the inclination of the object; and collision detection region defining means for defining the determined number of collision detection regions for the object in an arrangement determined according to the inclination of the object so that a bottom surface of each of the collision detection regions is perpendicular to the reference direction. 