Automated transaction machines dispense currency notes and enable the conduct of transactions. In some cases a user is enabled to dispense merchandise from a self-service dispensing machine and is also enabled to selectively receive cash value by charging the amount of such value to a source of monetary source associated with data read from a machine readable article such as a card (80, 82). A user may receive cash value by presenting a printed voucher or other item to a service provider located at a facility (14) at which the service provider exchanges the voucher or other item for cash. Alternatively, cash may be dispensed to the user directly from the self-service dispensing machine. Alternatively the user may pick up merchandise ordered through the machine at a delivery station disposed from the machine.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus comprising: a customer-accessible facility, wherein the facility includes: a merchandise order station, wherein the merchandise order station includes an automated transaction machine including: a housing having a secure chest portion; at least one output device operative to provide instructions to customers of the facility, wherein the at least one output device includes a touchscreen display, wherein the machine is operative to offer a plurality of merchandise items for sale to a customer through the touchscreen display by simultaneously displaying on the touchscreen display corresponding representative visual images of the merchandise items, wherein a customer tactually selects a particular merchandise item for order by touching a displayed representative visual image of the particular merchandise item, wherein the machine is operative to display through the touchscreen display a cost associated with at least one ordered merchandise item; a card reader operative to read data on cards corresponding to at least one non-cash source of monetary value; wherein the machine is operative to cause the cost to be assessed to the non-cash source of monetary value through communication between the machine and at least one remote computer; a cash acceptor operative to receive at least one currency note, to evaluate each note, and to separate suspected invalid notes from valid notes, wherein the machine is operative to determine a total value associated with valid notes received from a customer, wherein the machine is operative to cause the cost to be deducted from the total value; a cash recycler, wherein the cash recycler extends in the chest portion, wherein the cash recycler is operative to selectively dispense cash stored in the chest portion, and wherein the cash recycler is operative to receive valid notes from the cash acceptor through an opening in the chest portion and store the valid notes for dispense to subsequent customers; and a merchandise delivery station where merchandise items are receivable by customers of the facility, wherein the merchandise delivery station is disposed from the merchandise order station enabling one customer to provide inputs at the merchandise order station while another customer receives ordered merchandise items at the merchandise delivery station. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the facility includes a vehicle drive-through lane, wherein the merchandise order station is arranged adjacent the vehicle drive-through lane, wherein the machine is operative to receive a cash withdrawal request from a customer positioned in a vehicle located in the vehicle drive-through lane, wherein responsive to the cash withdrawal request, the machine is operative to cause the cash recycler to dispense cash previously received from the cash acceptor to the customer. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the facility comprises a fast food restaurant, wherein the fast food restaurant includes the vehicle drive-through lane, wherein the machine is operative to offer a plurality of food items for selection through the touchscreen display by displaying representative visual images of the food items, wherein a customer orders a particular food item by touching a displayed representative visual image of the particular food item. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the cash acceptor is operative to receive a stack of notes and to separate each note from the stack prior to an evaluation of the note. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the plurality of merchandise items include at least one food product. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the facility comprises an indoor fast food restaurant. 7. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein responsive to the total value exceeding the cost, the merchandise order station is operative to dispense from the merchandise order station at least a portion of a difference between the total value and the cost through operation of the cash recycler. 8. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the facility includes at least one vehicle drive-through lane, and wherein the card reader and the at least one output device are accessible to customers positioned in vehicles in the vehicle drive-through lane. 9. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the facility includes a vehicle drive-through lane, and wherein the merchandise order station and the merchandise delivery station are arranged along the vehicle drive-through lane. 10. The apparatus according to claim 9 wherein the automated transaction machine is operative to receive cash withdrawal requests from customers. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein the cash dispenser is operative to dispense cash responsive to both merchandise orders and cash withdrawal requests. 12. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the automated transaction machine is operative to receive cash withdrawal requests from customers, wherein responsive to receiving a cash withdrawal request the automated transaction machine is operative to dispense, to customers through operation of the cash recycler, notes previously received by the cash recycler from the cash acceptor. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the merchandise order station is operative to dispense cash to customers who have not selected for purchase any merchandise item. 14. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein responsive to the total value exceeding the cost, the merchandise order station is operative to dispense from the merchandise order station at least a portion of a difference between the total value and the cost through operation of the cash recycler. 15. Apparatus comprising: an automated transaction machine including: at least one display device, wherein the machine is operative to display to machine users, through the at least one display device, information about merchandise items available to be ordered, wherein the machine is operative to receive from a machine user both a cash withdrawal request and a merchandise item order for at least one merchandise item corresponding to information displayed through the at least one display device, a housing, wherein the housing includes an upper portion and a lower portion, wherein the upper portion includes a cash acceptor operative to receive cash from machine users, wherein the machine is operative to receive, through operation of the cash acceptor, cash payment for a merchandise item order, wherein the machine is operative to determine a change amount corresponding to a cash over payment received from a user for a merchandise item order, wherein the lower portion includes a secure chest portion, a cash recycler, wherein the cash recycler extends in the chest portion, wherein the cash recycler is operative to receive cash from the cash acceptor through an opening in the chest portion, wherein the cash recycler is operative to store, in the chest portion, cash received from the cash acceptor, wherein the cash recycler is operative to selectively dispense to machine users previously stored cash received from the cash acceptor, wherein the machine operates the cash recycler to dispense previously stored cash to a user responsive to receiving a cash withdrawal request from the user, wherein the machine operates the cash recycler to dispense previously stored cash to a user responsive to a determined change amount being greater than a minimum dispensable amount of previously stored cash, at least one communication device operative to provide information to at least one remote merchandise provider related to at least one merchandise item included in a merchandise item order, and a merchandise delivery station where merchandise items ordered through the machine are receivable, wherein the merchandise delivery station is disposed from the machine, wherein the merchandise delivery station is associated with the at least one merchandise provider. 16. A method comprising: (a) offering a plurality of merchandise items for sale to a customer of an automated transaction machine, wherein the machine includes a currency note dispenser and a touchscreen display, wherein the offering includes simultaneously displaying, on the touchscreen display, corresponding representative visual images of the merchandise items, wherein the customer tactually selects a particular merchandise item for order by touching a displayed representative visual image of the particular merchandise item; (b) receiving an order for at least one merchandise item by receiving at least one tactile input through the touchscreen display; (c) displaying an output through the touchscreen display indicative of a cost associated with at least one merchandise item ordered in (b); (d) receiving with the machine from the customer at least one of at least one note and at least one source input corresponding to a non-cash source of monetary value, wherein the machine is operative to receive a stack of notes, separate each note from the stack, evaluate each note, segregate suspected invalid notes from valid notes, store the valid notes in the machine in a manner that enables dispense to subsequent machine customers, and determine a total value associated with all valid notes, wherein the machine is operative to read at least one source input from a card and to communicate data corresponding to at least one portion of the at least one source input to at least one remote computer; (e) charging the cost to the customer through operation of the machine by: (e)(i) when the at least one note is received in (d), deducting the cost from the total value; (e)(ii) when the at least one source input is received in (d), causing the cost to be assessed to the non-cash source of monetary value through communication between the machine and the at least one remote computer; and (f) providing the at least one merchandise item ordered in (b), to the customer, at a delivery location disposed from the machine so that another customer can operate the machine while the customer is being provided the at least one merchandise item. 17. The method according to claim 16 and further comprising: (g) receiving, with the automated transaction machine, a cash withdrawal request to receive cash in a particular cash amount without ordering any merchandise items; (h) responsive to (g), dispensing the cash amount from the machine. 18. The method according to claim 16 wherein the machine includes a cash acceptor and a cash recycler, wherein the cash recycler is operative to receive cash from the cash acceptor, wherein the cash recycler is operative to dispense cash previously received from the cash acceptor, and further comprising: (g) receiving, with the machine from a customer, a cash withdrawal request; (h) responsive to (g), dispensing through operation of the cash recycler, cash previously received from the cash acceptor. 19. The method according to claim 18 wherein the automated transaction machine is arranged adjacent a vehicle drive-through lane, wherein step (b) includes receiving input through the touchscreen display from a customer positioned in a vehicle located in the vehicle drive-through lane. 20. The method according to claim 19 wherein a fast food restaurant includes the vehicle drive-through lane, wherein step (b) includes receiving a fast food order through the touchscreen display. 21. The method according to claim 20 wherein step (a) includes displaying on the touchscreen display representative visual images of selectable food items, wherein a customer can order a particular food item by touching the displayed representative visual image of the particular food item. 