Apparatus, systems and methods are described to assist in reducing dark current in an active pixel sensor. A potential barrier arrangement is configured to block the flow of charge carriers generated outside a photosensitive region. In various embodiments, a potential well-potential barrier arrangement is formed to direct charge carriers away from the photosensitive region during an integration time.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An active pixel sensor comprising: a photosensitive region including a pinned photodiode structure, the pinned photodiode structure operatively coupled to an n-type conductivity region; a first electron gate located adjacent to the n-type conductivity region and to the photosensitive region, the first electron gate operatively coupled to an adjustable voltage; and a second electron gate located adjacent the n-type conductivity region and to a drain region, the second electron gate operatively coupled to the first electron gate, wherein a second electron barrier associated with the second electron gate is less than a first electron barrier associated with the first electron gate, and wherein a drain potential associated with the drain region is less than a first potential associated with the n-type conductivity region during an integration time. 2. The active pixel sensor of claim 1, wherein the first electron barrier is configured to limit the transmission of electrons from the n-type conductivity region to the photosensitive region during the integration time. 3. The active pixel sensor of claim 1, wherein the first electron barrier is greater than the second electron barrier, a third electron barrier associated with a region adjacent the pinned photodiode structure, and the drain potential. 4. The active pixel sensor of claim 1, wherein first electron barrier and the second electron barrier are formed from the same semiconductor material with different dopant profiles. 5. The active pixel sensor of claim 4, wherein the semiconductor material is selected from a group consisting essentially of Si, Ge, and C. 6. The active pixel sensor of claim 1, wherein the photosensitive material includes at least one of a Si, a SiC, a SiGe, and a SiGeC. 7. The active pixel sensor of claim 1, wherein the photosensitive region is configured to generate carriers using light of a predetermined wavelength range. 8. The active pixel sensor of claim 1, wherein the first electron barrier is configured to block transmission of electrons from the n-type conductivity region to the photoactive region using a doping profile. 9. The active pixel sensor of claim 1, wherein the pinned photodiode structure is adapted to absorb light of a predetermined wavelength range. 10. The active pixel sensor of claim 1, wherein the photosensitive region is configured to receive light using a filter material attached to a substrate supporting the photosensitive region. 11. The active pixel sensor of claim 10, wherein the photosensitive region is configured to receive light using an antireflective material attached to at least one of the filter material and the substrate. 