An automated storage system for storing large quantities of samples in trays includes a storage compartment, a tray shuttle compartment abutting the storage compartment on one side and a plurality of independent modules on the other side. The modules perform processing of samples that are retrieved from the storage compartment by a tray shuttle, including extraction of selected samples from retrieved source trays and transfer of the selected samples into a separate, destination tray that can be further processed or removed from the system for use. The independent operation of the modules permits handling and processing to be performed simultaneously by different modules while the tray shuttle accesses additional samples within the storage compartment. In one embodiment, a vertical carousel is used to vertically align a desired tray with the tray shuttle, while the tray shuttle operates within a horizontal plane.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for partitioning compartments within a storage volume, the system comprising: a temperature controlled compartment having a width and a height for enclosing a plurality of storage racks for supporting trays containing a plurality of vials at different vertical and horizontal positions within the compartment; a robotics compartment having a robotics mechanism having vertical and horizontal movement for removing trays from and replacing trays into the plurality of storage racks; an insulating wall having vertical and horizontal dimensions defining a wall area disposed between the temperature controlled compartment and the robotics compartment, the insulating wall comprising a plurality of separable bricks slidably stacked within a plurality of vertical guides to define a plurality of columns, each column comprising multiple separable bricks, wherein the bricks are held in a closed position by gravity and each brick has dimensions that are much smaller than both the vertical and horizontal dimensions of the wall area, and wherein each brick has a recess formed in its front face; wherein the robotics mechanism has a lifting pin that fits within the recess in the brick and further comprises means for: aligning the lifting pin with the recess in one brick of the plurality of bricks that is located nearest to a pre-determined storage position; inserting the lifting pin into the recess and lifting the one brick and any bricks stacked on top of the one brick to open a gap in the insulating wall, wherein the gap has dimensions that are no larger than the one brick and much smaller than the wall area; while the lifting pin holds the gap open, retrieving or replacing a tray from or into the temperature controlled compartment by reaching through the gap; and after the tray has been retrieved or replaced, lowering the lifted bricks to close the gap. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of bricks is formed from an insulating foam. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the temperature controlled compartment is ultra-cold and the robotics compartment is temperature controlled at a higher temperature than ultra-cold. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the robotic mechanism comprises a gantry slidably disposed on a gantry rail and a tray shuttle that moves vertically on the gantry. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the tray shuttle comprises a tray support surface for supporting the tray, and wherein the lifting pin is disposed on the tray shuttle at a fixed height above the tray support surface. 6. A system for partitioning temperature controlled volumes, comprising: a temperature controlled compartment having a width and a height for enclosing a plurality of storage racks for supporting trays containing a plurality of vials at different vertical and horizontal positions within the compartment, the temperature controlled compartment having an access side; an insulating wall having a height and a width disposed along the access side, the insulating wall comprising a plurality of separable bricks slidably stacked within a plurality of vertical guides to define a plurality of columns, each column comprising multiple bricks, wherein the multiple bricks in the column are held in a closed position by gravity and wherein each brick has dimensions that are much smaller than both the height and the width of the wall and has a recess formed in its front face; a robotics compartment disposed along a side of the insulating wall opposite the temperature controlled compartment, the robotics compartment enclosing a robotics mechanism having vertical and horizontal movement for removing trays from and replacing trays into the plurality of storage racks, wherein the robotics mechanism has a lifting pin that aligns with and fits within the recess in a brick that is located nearest to a pre-determined storage rack, lifts the brick and any bricks stacked on top of the brick to open a gap in the insulating wall, wherein the gap has dimensions that are no larger than the one brick and much smaller than the wall area, and while the lifting pin holds the gap open, retrieves or replaces a tray from or into the storage rack by reaching through the gap, and lowers the lifted bricks to close the gap after the tray has been retrieved or replaced. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein each of the plurality of bricks is formed from an insulating foam. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the temperature controlled compartment is ultra-cold and the robotics compartment is temperature controlled at a higher temperature than ultra-cold. 9. The system of claim 6, wherein the robotic mechanism comprises a gantry slidably disposed on a gantry rail and a tray shuttle that moves vertically on the gantry. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the tray shuttle comprises a tray support surface for supporting the tray, and wherein the pin is disposed on the tray shuttle at a fixed height above the tray support surface. 11. A system for partitioning compartments within a storage volume, the system comprising: an environmentally-controlled compartment having a width and a height for enclosing a plurality of storage racks for supporting trays at different vertical and horizontal storage positions within the compartment; a robotics compartment having a robotics mechanism having vertical and horizontal movement for removing trays from and replacing trays into the plurality of storage racks; an insulating wall having vertical and horizontal dimensions defining a wall area disposed between the environmentally-controlled compartment and the robotics compartment, the insulating wall comprising a plurality of columns of separable foam bricks slidably stacked within a plurality of vertical guides, wherein the bricks within each column are gravitationally held in a closed position and each brick has a brick area that is much smaller than the wall area; wherein the robotics mechanism comprises means for: separately lifting a brick that is located nearest to a pre-determined storage position and any bricks in the column stacked on top of the brick to open a gap in the insulating wall, wherein the gap has dimensions that are no larger than the one brick and much smaller than the wall area, wherein the means for separatley lifting a brick comprises a lifting pin; while holding the gap open, retrieving or replacing a tray from or into the environmentally-controlled compartment by reaching through the gap; and after the tray has been retrieved or replaced, lowering the lifted bricks to close the gap and restore the insulating wall. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the robotics compartment is temperature controlled at a different temperature than the environmentally-controlled compartment. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the robotic mechanism comprises a gantry slidably disposed on a gantry rail within the robotics compartment and a tray shuttle that moves vertically on the gantry. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the tray shuttle comprises a tray support surface for supporting the tray, and wherein the means for separately lifting the brick is disposed on the tray shuttle at a fixed height above the tray support surface. 