This invention provides a signal processing and signal synthesis technique from a family of signal processing and signal synthesis techniques designed to readily interwork or be used individually in creating new forms of rich musical timbres. A multi-channel cross-flanger with differing modulation signals for each flanger element deepens synthesized sounds. The configuration may process outputs from a plurality of distortion signal processors, each driven by a related signal, to create new levels of distortion richness. Each distortion signal processor may be driven by an output of a multiple-output spatializing signal processor. The characteristics and parameters of the processors and modulations may be recalled from stored program control or varied by real-time control signals, including those derived from the original input signal. The invention may be used individually or in conjunction with other signal processing and signal synthesis techniques in creating new forms of rich musical timbres. The invention may also be used in spatially-distributed timbre construction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for enriching the timbre of audio signals, said system comprising: a plurality of incoming audio signals; a plurality of signal processors, wherein each signal processor of said plurality of signal processors receives one incoming audio signal of said plurality of incoming audio signals, wherein each signal processor of said plurality of signal processors induce a variable delay on a received incoming audio signal to generate a variable-delay audio signal, and wherein said variable delay is controlled by an oscillator signal generated by an associated low-frequency control oscillator; and a plurality of mixers, wherein each mixer of said plurality of mixers receives a variable-delay audio signal generated by an associated signal processor of said plurality of signal processors and at least one incoming audio signal of said plurality of incoming audio signals, wherein said at least one incoming audio signal includes all of said plurality of incoming audio signals, except for the particular incoming audio signal received at said associated signal processor, and wherein each mixer of said plurality of mixers generates an outgoing audio signal comprising a variable mix of received audio signals. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said associated low-frequency control oscillators is controlled responsive to incoming MIDI control signals. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of signal processors is implemented using two signal processors and said plurality of mixers is implemented using a multi-channel mixer, and wherein said outgoing audio signal generated by said multi-channel mixer comprises a stereo audio output signal. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of incoming audio signals are generated by a corresponding plurality of distortion signal processors. 5. The system according to claim 4, wherein each processor of said plurality of distortion signal processors are driven by an associated distinct output of at least one spatializer signal processor. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein each outgoing audio signal generated by each mixer of said plurality of mixers is further mixed to generate an outgoing stereo mix audio signal. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system provides one signal processing layer of a multi-layered signal processing system. 8. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system is incorporated into a spatially-distributed timbral realization system. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein an incoming oscillator frequency control signal controls the frequency of said oscillator signal generated by said associated low-frequency oscillator. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein an incoming oscillator amplitude control signal controls the waveform amplitude of said oscillator signal generated by said associated low-frequency oscillator. 11. The system according to claim 1, wherein an incoming oscillator waveshape control signal controls the waveshape of the waveform of said oscillator signal generated by said associated low-frequency oscillator. 12. The system according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said plurality of signal processors is further controlled by an incoming control signal. 13. The system according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said plurality of signal processors is further controlled by an envelope generator control signal. 14. The system according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said plurality of mixers is controlled by an incoming mixer control signal. 15. The system according to claim 4, wherein at least one of said plurality of distortion signal processors is controlled by an incoming distortion control signal. 16. The system according to claim 15, wherein said incoming distortion control signal is a signal of MIDI format. 17. A method for enriching the timbre of audio signals, said method comprising: receiving a plurality of incoming audio signals at an associated plurality of signal processors, wherein each signal processor of said plurality of signal processors receives one incoming audio signal of said plurality of incoming audio signals, wherein each signal processor of said plurality of signal processors induce a variable delay on a received incoming audio signal to generate a variable-delay audio signal, and wherein said variable delay is controlled by an oscillator signal generated by an associated low-frequency control oscillator; receiving a separate variable-delay audio signal at each mixer of a plurality of mixers, wherein each variable-delay audio signal of said plurality of variable-delay audio signals is generated by an associated signal processor of said plurality of signal processors; and receiving at least one incoming audio signal of said plurality of incoming audio signals at each mixer of a plurality of mixers, wherein said at least one incoming audio signal includes all of said plurality of incoming audio signals, except for the particular incoming audio signal received at said associated signal processor, and wherein each mixer of said plurality of mixers generates an outgoing audio signal comprising a variable mix of received audio signals. 18. The method according to claim 17, wherein at least one of said associated low-frequency control oscillators is controlled responsive to incoming MIDI control signals. 19. The method according to claim 17, wherein said plurality of signal processors is implemented using two signal processors and said plurality of mixers is implemented using a multi-channel mixer, and wherein said outgoing audio signal generated by said multi-channel mixer comprises a stereo audio output signal. 20. The method according to claim 17, wherein said plurality of incoming audio signals are generated by a corresponding plurality of distortion signal processors. 21. The method according to claim 20, wherein each processor of said plurality of distortion signal processors are driven by an associated distinct output of at least one spatializer signal processor. 22. The method according to claim 17, wherein each outgoing audio signal generated by each mixer of said plurality of mixers is further mixed to generate an outgoing stereo mix audio signal. 23. The method according to claim 17, wherein said method is implemented within one signal processing layer of a multi-layered signal processing system. 24. The method according to claim 17, wherein said method is implemented within a spatially-distributed timbral realization system. 25. The method according to claim 17, wherein an incoming oscillator frequency control signal controls the frequency of said oscillator signal generated by said associated low-frequency oscillator. 26. The method according to claim 17, wherein an incoming oscillator amplitude control signal controls the waveform amplitude of said oscillator signal generated by said associated low-frequency oscillator. 27. The method according to claim 17, wherein an incoming oscillator waveshape control signal controls the waveshape of the waveform of said oscillator signal generated by said associated low-frequency oscillator. 28. The method according to claim 17, wherein at least one of said plurality of signal processors is further controlled by an incoming control signal. 29. The method according to claim 17, wherein at least one of said plurality of signal processors is further controlled by an envelope generator control signal. 30. The method according to claim 17, wherein at least one of said plurality of mixers is controlled by an incoming mixer control signal. 31. The method according to claim 20, wherein at least one of said plurality of distortion signal processors is controlled by an incoming distortion control signal. 32. The method according to claim 31, wherein said incoming distortion control signal is a signal of MIDI format. 