An optical assembly includes a light path and at least one optic to be positioned in the path. A support arrangement supports the optic having a foot arrangement including at least one foot that receives a direct manipulation with the foot slidingly engaged against a support surface to move the optic relative to the light path. Movement of the foot may move the optic along a predetermined path. The foot defines a footprint for engaging the support surface and receives the direct manipulation in a way which changes the footprint on the support surface to move the optic responsive to changes in the footprint. A movement arrangement may selectively bias the foot against the support surface during a movement mode, intended to permit movement of the foot against the support surface, and in a locked mode, intended to lock the foot against the support surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a system for use in producing an optical assembly which itself includes a light path and an optical component to be positioned in said light path as part of the optical assembly, a method comprising the steps of: defining a support surface as part of said optical assembly; providing movement means for controlling alignment movements of the optical component in a particular way relative to the light path; supporting said optical component using at least one foot which forms one part of a support arrangement for supporting the optical component; directly engaging said foot with said movement means; biasing the foot against the support surface in a movement mode which permits movement of the foot against the support surface; using the movement means, moving the foot against the support surface in the movement mode to orient said optical component in said particular way with respect to said light path; locking said foot against the support surface; and with continuing use of the movement means, biasing the foot against the support surface in a locked mode and deforming a shape of the foot to further orient said optical component with respect to said light path. 2. The method of claim 1 including the step of using the movement means for biasing the foot against the support surface in said movement mode and said locked mode. 3. The method of claim 2 including the steps of using a first force in said movement mode to bias the foot against the support surface and using a second force in said locked mode to bias the foot against the support surface such that the second force is substantially greater than the first force. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said support surface is at least generally planar and including the step of configuring said foot to include an at least generally planar foot surface for engaging said support surface. 5. The method of claim 4 including the steps of engaging the foot surface against said foot surface with a coefficient of friction and configuring said movement means to apply a first biasing force in said movement mode and a second biasing force in said locked mode such that magnitudes of each of the first and second biasing forces are based, at least in part, on an area of said foot surface and said coefficient of friction. 6. The method of claim 5 including the step of selecting said second biasing force to cooperate with the coefficient of friction in the locked mode so as to at least limit lateral movement of the foot during attachment thereof to the support surface. 7. The method of claim 1 including the step of providing attachment means configured for cooperating with said movement means for fixedly attaching the foot to the support surface. 8. The method of claim 7 including the step of laser welding said foot to the support surface using said attachment means. 9. The method of claim 7 including the step of lap welding said foot to said support surface. 10. The method of claim 7 including the step of forming said foot having (i) an at least generally plate-like configuration including, (ii) a lower surface for at least initially engaging the support surface forming part of the optical assembly, (iii) an upper surface spaced-apart from the lower surface such that the foot includes a first thickness therebetween, (iv) and at least one weld region having a second thickness which is less than said first thickness for use in welding the foot to said support surface. 11. The method of claim 10 including the steps of further forming said foot such that said lower surface extends across said weld region and defining a stepped periphery in said upper surface to provide a weldable surface which is spaced from said lower surface by said second thickness. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said forming step forms said foot having a peripheral sidewall such that the upper surface extends from the peripheral sidewall to the weld region to define a peripheral area which surrounds said weld region and which is configured for engaging said movement means for biasing the peripheral area toward the support surface which, in turn, biases the lower surface of the foot against said support surface in said movement mode and in said locked mode. 13. The method of claim 12 including the step of configuring the movement means for biasing the peripheral area against the support surface prior to and during welding of the weld region of the foot to the support surface. 14. The method of claim 11 including the step of configuring said movement means for engaging said stepped periphery to move said foot against said support surface. 15. The method of claim 14 including the steps of configuring said movement means to include a movement arm having a distal end including a peripheral shoulder surrounding said distal end for engaging the stepped periphery of the foot for use in biasing the foot against the support surface and for use in moving the foot against the support surface and forming said distal end to define a through-opening that is configured for passing a laser beam to the weld region for use in welding the weld region of the foot to the support surface. 16. In a system for use in producing an optical assembly which itself includes a light path and an optical component to be positioned in said light path as part of the optical assembly, a method comprising the steps of: positioning a bracket attached to said optical component on a support surface that is part of said optical assembly; moving a foot of said bracket relative to said support surface and initially aligning said optical component with said light path; attaching said foot to said support surface; after attaching said foot, deforming said foot and further aligning said optical component with said light path; and thereafter, further attaching said foot to said support surface. 17. The method of claim 16 including attaching a first portion of said foot to said support surface after initially aligning said optical component with said light path and attaching a second portion of said foot to said support surface after further aligning said optical component with said light path. 18. The method of claim 16 further including engaging a movement means with a first engagement position on said foot and initially aligning said optical component with said light path and engaging the movement means with a second different engagement position on said foot and further aligning said optical component with said light path. 19. In a system for use in producing an optical assembly which itself includes a light path and an optical component to be positioned in said light path as part of the optical assembly, a method comprising the steps of: defining a support surface as part of said optical assembly; providing movement means for controlling alignment movements of the optical component in a particular way relative to the light path; supporting said optical component using at least one foot which forms one part of a support arrangement for supporting the optical component; using the movement means, moving said foot relative to said support surface and coarsely adjusting said optical component relative to said light path; connecting said foot to said support surface after said coarse adjustment; and using the movement means while said foot is connected to said support surface and finely adjusting said optical component relative to said light path. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein coarsely adjusting said optical component includes moving said foot about said support surface and finely adjusting said optical component includes deforming said foot. 