Systems and methods for closed-loop feedback control of controllable devices using motion capture systems are disclosed. In one embodiment, a system includes a motion capture system configured to measure one or more motion characteristics of one or more controllable devices as the one or more controllable devices are operating within a control volume. A processor receives the measured motion characteristics from the motion capture system and determines a control signal based on the measured motion characteristics. A position control system receives the control signal and continuously adjusts at least one motion characteristic of the one or more controllable devices in order to maintain or achieve a desired motion state. The controllable device may be equipped with passive retro-reflective markers. The motion capture system, the processor, and the position control system comprise a complete closed-loop feedback control system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling one or more controllable devices, comprising: a motion capture system to measure one or more motion characteristics of one or more controllable devices as the one or more controllable devices are operating within a control volume, the one or more controllable devices having a plurality of retro-reflective markers positioned thereon in a pattern unique to each of the one or more controllable devices, the motion capture system including a plurality of motion detection devices operatively positioned with respect to the control volume to detect at least some of the retro-reflective markers positioned on the one or more controllable devices and to determine an orientation of each of the at least one controllable device based on a position of the retro-reflective markers; a processing component to receive the one or more motion characteristics from the motion capture system including the orientation of each of the at least one controllable devices, to compare the received motion characteristics with desired motion characteristics, and to determine a command signal based on the compared motion characteristics, wherein the processing component includes: (1) at least one communication network operatively coupled to the motion capture system to transmit the one or more motion characteristics measured by the motion capture system, and (2) an on-board processing component positioned on each of the one or more controllable devices, the on-board processing component to receive the one or more motion characteristics from the at least one communication network, and to determine the command signal; and a position control system to receive the command signal and to adjust at least one motion characteristic of the one or more controllable devices in a closed-loop feedback manner. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing component includes: at least one communication network operatively coupled to the motion capture system; an application computer operatively coupled to the at least one communication network to compute the command signal; and one or more control modules operatively coupled to the at feast one communication network to receive the command signal, and to transmit the command signal to the one or more controllable devices. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the one or more control modules recondition the command signal into a format suitable for use by the one or more controllable devices. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of motion detection devices determine six-degree-of-freedom information for each of the controllable devices operating within the control volume. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of motion detection devices comprise a plurality of motion detection cameras. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the plurality of camera devices track the retro-reflective markers using at least one of a visible wavelength portion of the spectrum and an infrared wavelength portion of the spectrum. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of motion detection devices track the one or more controllable devices based on plurality of retro-reflective markers positioned on each controllable device. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the plurality of motion detection devices include multiple correlated motion measurement cameras that measure position to within approximately one centimeter accuracy, have update frequencies of at least 20 Hz, and have latency periods of 1/20th second or less. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein a plurality of secondary passive reflector devices are positioned on a moveable component of at least some of the controllable devices, and wherein the plurality of motion detection devices track a secondary motion characteristic of the moveable component using the plurality of secondary passive reflector devices. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the moveable component comprises a rotating component and the secondary motion characteristic comprises an angular velocity. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more controllable devices includes at least one of a vehicle, and a robot. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one vehicle includes at least one of a flight vehicle, a rotary-powered flight vehicle, a lighter-than-air flight vehicle, and a ground based vehicle. 13. A manufacturing system, comprising: at least one controllable device including a position control system to controllably position a workpiece; a plurality of retro-reflective markers positioned on the workpiece in a pattern unique to the type of workpiece; a motion capture system to repetitively measure one or more motion characteristics of the plurality of markers as the workpiece is controllably positioned within a control volume by the controllable device and to determine an orientation of the workpiece based on a position of the retro-reflective markers; a processing component to receive the one or more motion characteristics from the motion capture system and to determine at least one command signal based on the one or more motion characteristics, wherein the processing component includes: (1) at least one communication network operatively coupled to the motion capture system to transmit the one or more motion characteristics measured by the motion capture system, and (2) an on-board processing component positioned on the controllable device, the on-board processing component to receive the one or more motion characteristics from the at least one communication network and to compute the command signal; and wherein the position control system of the controllable device receives the command signal and adjusts at least one motion characteristic of the workpiece in a closed-loop feedback manner, the closed-loop feedback to compare the one or more motion characteristics with desired motion characteristics. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the processing component includes: at least one communication network operatively coupled to the motion capture system; an application computer operatively coupled to the at least one communication network to compute the command signal; and one or more control modules operatively coupled to the at least one communication network to receive the command signal, and to transmit the command signal to the position control system of the controllable device. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more control modules recondition the command signal into a format suitable for use by the position control system of the controllable device. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein the motion capture system includes a plurality of detection devices operatively positioned with respect to the control volume, the plurality of detection devices to determine six-degree-of-freedom information for the workpiece. 17. The system of claim 13, wherein the motion capture system includes a plurality of motion detection cameras to detect at least some of the retro-reflective markers positioned on the workpiece. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the plurality of camera devices track the retro-reflective markers using at least one of a visible wavelength portion of the spectrum and an infrared wavelength portion of the spectrum. 19. The system of claim 13, wherein the controllable device comprises at least one of a vehicle, and a robot. 20. A viewing system, comprising: at least one controllable device including a position control system to controllably position a viewing device, and a plurality of retro-reflective markers positioned on the controllable device; a motion capture system to repetitively measure one or more motion characteristics of the controllable device as the controllable device is controllably positioned within a control volume, wherein measuring the one or more motion characteristics of the controllable device includes measuring an angular orientation of the controllable device based on the position of the plurality of retro-reflective markers; and a processing component to receive the one or more motion characteristics from the motion capture system and to determine at feast one command signal based on the one or more motion characteristics, the controllable device to receive the command signal and to adjust at least one motion characteristic of the controllable device in a closed-loop feedback manner, wherein the processing component includes: (1) at least one communication network operatively coupled to the motion capture system to transmit the one or more motion characteristics measured by the motion capture system, and (2) an on-board processing component positioned on the controllable device, the on-board processing component to receive the one or more motion characteristics from the at least one communication network and to compute the command signal. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the processing component includes: at least one communication network operatively coupled to the motion capture system; an application computer operatively coupled to the at least one communication network to compute the command signal; and one or more control modules operatively coupled to the at least one communication network to receive the command signal, and to transmit the command signal to the controllable device. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the motion capture system includes a plurality of detection devices operatively positioned with respect to the control volume, the plurality of detection devices to determine six-degree-of-freedom information for the controllable device. 23. The system of claim 20, wherein the motion capture system includes a plurality of motion detection cameras to detect at least some of the retro-reflective markers. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the plurality of motion detection cameras track the retro-reflective markers using at least one of a visible wavelength portion of the spectrum and an infrared wavelength portion of the spectrum. 25. The system of claim 20, wherein the controllable device comprises at least one of a vehicle, and a robot. 26. A method of operating a controllable device, comprising: measuring one or more motion characteristics of the controllable device using a motion capture system operatively disposed with respect to a control volume as the controllable device operates within the control volume, the one or more motion characteristics measured using a plurality of retro-reflective markers positioned on the controllable device in a pattern unique to the type of controllable device; receiving the one or more motion characteristics from the motion capture system using at least one communication network; comparing the received motion characteristics with desired motion characteristics; determining a command signal based on the compared motion characteristics, wherein the determining the command signal includes: (1) receiving the one or more measured motion characteristics from the at least one communication network into an on-board processing component positioned on the controllable device, and (2) computing the command signal using the on-board processing component; and transmitting the command signal to the controllable device to control at least one motion characteristic of the controllable device in a closed-loop feedback manner. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein: receiving the one or more measured motion characteristics includes receiving the one or more measured motion characteristics using at least one communication network; determining a command signal includes determining a command signal using an application computer operatively coupled to the at least one communication network; and transmitting the command signal to the controllable device includes transmitting the command signal from the application computer to the controllable device. 28. The method of claim 27, further comprising reconditioning the command signal from application computer into a reconditioned signal suitably formatted for the controllable device. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein measuring the one or more motion characteristics includes measuring the one or more motion characteristics using a plurality of motion detection devices operatively distributed about at least a portion of the control volume, the motion detection devices to determine six-degree-of-freedom information for the controllable device operating within the control volume. 30. The method of claim 26, wherein measuring the one or more motion characteristics using a plurality of camera devices to track the retro-reflective markers using at least one of a visible wavelength portion of the spectrum and an infrared wavelength portion of the spectrum. 31. The method of claim 26, wherein measuring the one or more motion characteristics of the controllable device includes measuring the one or more motion characteristics of at least one of a vehicle, and a robot. 32. A method of viewing an activity, comprising: positioning a moveable device within a control volume, the moveable device being equipped with a viewing device to view the activity; measuring one or more motion characteristics of the moveable device using a motion capture system operatively disposed with respect to the control volume as the moveable device operates within the control volume, the motion capture system to measure an orientation of the moveable device by detecting a plurality of retro-reflective markers positioned on the moveable device; receiving the one or more measured motion characteristics from the motion capture system using at least one communication network; determining a command signal based on the one or more motion characteristics, wherein the determining the command signal includes: (1) receiving the one or more measured motion characteristics from the at least one communication network into an on-board processing component positioned on the moveable device, and (2) computing the command signal using the on-board processing component; and transmitting the command signal to the moveable device to control at least one motion characteristic of the moveable device in a closed-loop feedback manner. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein: receiving the one or more measured motion characteristics includes receiving the one or more measured motion characteristics using at least one communication network; determining the command signal includes determining a command signal using an application computer operatively coupled to the at least one communication network; and transmitting the command signal to the moveable device includes transmitting the command signal from the application computer to the moveable device. 34. The method of claim 32, wherein measuring the one or more motion characteristics includes measuring the one or more motion characteristics using a plurality of motion detection devices operatively distributed about at least a portion of the control volume, the motion detection devices to determine six-degree-of-freedom information for the moveable device operating within the control volume. 35. The method of claim 32, wherein measuring the one or more motion characteristics includes measuring the one or more motion characteristics using a plurality of camera devices to track the retro-reflective markers using at least one of a visible wavelength portion of the spectrum and an infrared wavelength portion of the spectrum. 