Methods for determining nucleic acid fragmentation status are provided. A nucleic acid of interest in a reaction mixture is contacted with two or more different probes complementary to sites separated by a point of potential fragmentation. The probes each comprise a detectable marker. The nucleic acid of interest is flowed into a detection region, where two or more coincident detectable marker signals from the probes are detected. Fragmentation status of the nucleic acid of interest is determined, coincident detection of signals from two or more of the different probes indicating the nucleic acid of interest is not fragmented between the probes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining fragmentation status of a nucleic acid of interest in a sample at the start of the method, the method comprising: contacting the nucleic acid of interest in a reaction mixture with two or more different probes complementary to sites separated by a point of potential fragmentation, wherein the probes each comprise a detectable marker; flowing the nucleic acid of interest into a detection region; detecting detectable marker signals from the probes; and determining fragmentation status of the nucleic acid of interest, wherein coincident detection of signals from two or more of the different probes indicates the nucleic acid of interest was not fragmented between the probes at the start of the method and has at least a given length, and wherein detecting a signal from only one of the different probes indicates the nucleic acid of interest was fragmented. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction mixture comprises a single copy of the nucleic acid of interest. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the two or more probes each comprise detectable markers with different signals. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the probes comprise a fluorescent resonant energy transfer (FRET) detectable marker or a molecular beacon (MB) marker. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising correlating one or more lengths of one or more nucleic acids of interest to a disease state by identifying a ratio or quantitative threshold of lengths associated with the disease state. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: contacting the nucleic acid of interest with a first primer pair; contacting the nucleic acid of interest with a second primer pair comprising at least one primer-complementary to a sequence of the nucleic acid of interest or its-complement outside of a sequence defined by the first primer pair; and amplifying the nucleic acid of interest in the reaction mixture contained in a microchannel or microchamber with primer extensions initiated at primers to produce first amplicons defined by the first primer pair or second amplicons defined by the second primer pair; wherein at least a first probe is complementary to a sequence of the first amplicons and at least a second probe is complementary to a sequence of the second amplicons; whereby a sensitivity of said detecting is increased. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein one primer pair comprises control primers defining amplicons of 100 base pairs or less in length and another primer pair comprises test primers defining longer amplicons ranging in length from about 100 base pairs to about 3000 base pairs. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein a region of the nucleic acid of interest defined by the first primer pair does not overlap with a region of the nucleic acid of interest defined by the second primer pair. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the probes is-complementary to an amplicon sequence defined by one primer pair but not complementary to an amplicon sequence defined by another primer pair. 10. The method of claim 6, further comprising: contacting the nucleic acid of interest with one or more additional primer pairs comprising at least one primer complementary to a sequence of the nucleic acid of interest or its complement outside a sequence defined by the first primer pair or second primer pair; whereby one or more additional amplicons are produced, and whereby coincident detection of signals from a probe specific for the one or more additional amplicons and the first or second probes indicates the nucleic acid of interest is not fragmented between sequences complementary to probes providing the signals. 11. The method of claim 6, wherein said amplifying comprises: a polymerase chain reaction (PCR), reverse-transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR), ligase chain reaction (LCR), a Q-.beta. replicase or RNA/transcription mediated techniques. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: aliquotting the sample into at least 25 reaction mixtures comprising 2 or fewer copies of the nucleic acid of interest each; individually subjecting the sample aliquots to the contacting and the detecting; and individually counting a number of aliquots resulting in detection of a signal from one probe or individually counting a number of aliquots resulting in detection of signals from two or more probes. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least 25 reaction mixtures comprise one or more reaction mixtures comprising single copies of the nucleic acid of interest. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least 25 reaction mixtures comprise one or more reaction mixtures comprising zero copies of the nucleic acid of interest. 15. The method of claim 12, further comprising evaluating the number of one probe signals and two probe signals to determine a proportion of nucleic acids of interest having different lengths. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising correlating a disease state with the proportion. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising quantifying the nucleic acid of interest. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said quantifying comprises counting a number of signals from one or more of the different probes. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said quantifying comprises detecting a volume, width, height, length, area, shape, or ratio, of the one or more signals. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein said quantifying comprises comparison of a probe detectable marker signal to an internal standard signal. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein said quantifying comprises comparison of signals from two or more reaction mixtures comprising different degrees of amplification. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the two or more reaction mixtures comprise different amplification due to: flowing through a thermocycler at different flow rates, flowing different distances into a thermocycler, remaining in a thermocycler for different amounts of time, or experiencing different numbers of amplification cycles. 23. The method of claim 1, further comprising diluting the sample to obtain one or more reaction mixtures containing a single copy of the nucleic acid of interest. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the nucleic acid of interest is diluted to a concentration of about 1 molecule per nanoliter or less. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises a sample selected from the group consisting of: whole blood, serum, plasma, stool, urine, vaginal secretions, ejaculatory fluid, a cervical swab, synovial fluid, a biopsy, cerebrospinal fluid, amniotic fluid, sputum, saliva, lymph, tears, sweat, and urine. 