A portable device for collecting data at a geographic location and providing accurate, comprehensive, efficient and timely work prints. The portable device for collecting data at a geographic location, the device including a memory that stores preliminary site information associated with the geographic location; a receiver that receives geographic position data of at least one point at the geographic location; an interface that enables a user to input data corresponding to the received geographic position data; and a processor that supplements the preliminary site information with the received geographic position data and the corresponding input data.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A portable device for collecting data at a geographic location, the device comprising: a memory that stores preliminary site information associated with the geographic location; a receiver that receives geographic position data of at least one selected point at the geographic location, and that automatically checks for and receives an update for the at least one selected point, the update including a change in a desired location and a change in intended purpose for the at least one selected point; an interface that enables a user to input data corresponding to the received geographic position data; and a processor that supplements the preliminary site information with the received geographic position data and the corresponding input data. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the receiver comprises a GPS receiver and the memory stores at least the supplemented site information. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the preliminary site information comprises a work print indicating at least one action to be performed at the location. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein the preliminary site information comprises a topographical plat. 5. The device according to claim 1, wherein the preliminary site information comprises a warehouse plan including inventory information. 6. The device according to claim 1, further comprising: at least one input/output port configured to be coupled to at least one supplemental device, comprising at least one of a satellite signal receiver, a radio frequency signal receiver, a memory card, a range finder, a telephone, and a camera. 7. The device according to claim 1, the interface comprising at least one function activation key configured to execute a predetermined function that provides at least one user selectable choice for the input data. 8. The device according to claim 1, further comprising: a range finder that determines a distance to a remote object, the processor determining a geographic position of the remote object based on the received geographic position data and the determined distance to the remote object. 9. The portable according to claim 1, further comprising: a camera that captures a still or moving image that may be displayed on a display of the interface, the memory storing the image in association with at least one of the geographic position data and the corresponding input data of the at least selected one point. 10. The device according to claim 1, further comprising: a transceiver configured to communicate with a remote work station, the supplemented site information being downloadable to the work station through the transceiver. 11. A work management method comprising: connecting a first device to a second device, the first device being portable; receiving a preliminary plan for at least one planned location at a work site from the second device; receiving actual geographical data associated with the at least one planned location at the work site, and automatically checking for and receiving an update for the at least one planned location, the update including a change in a desired location and a change in intended purpose for the at least one planned location; inputting additional data associated with the received geographic data; and supplementing the preliminary plan with the geographic data and the associated additional data. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein supplementing the preliminary plan comprises overlaying the geographic data and the associated additional data on the preliminary plan. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein inputting the additional data comprises retrieving predetermined data from at least one of the first device and the second device. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: sending the supplemented preliminary plan to the second device; automatically finalizing the preliminary plan; and generating an order based on the finalized plan. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein generating the order comprises: identifying at least one item to be placed at the at least one planned location based on the geographic data; and determining an availability of the at least one item from a database. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: forwarding the order to a project manager for implementation. 17. A method for surveying a location, the method comprising: receiving, at a first device, position data from a geographic position determining system, the position data corresponding to at least one selected geographic point at the location; entering notes in the first device corresponding to the received position data; automatically checking for and receiving an update for the at least one selected geographic point, the update including a change in a desired location and a change in intended purpose for the at least one geographic point; storing the notes and the position data corresponding to the at least one selected geographic point in a first memory of the first device; and generating a plan from the stored notes and position data. 18. The method according to claim 17, generating the plan comprising: connecting the first terminal device to a second device; synchronizing the first device to the second device; downloading the stored notes and position data to the second device; associating the downloaded notes and position data with a preliminary plan; and overlaying the associated notes and position data on the associated preliminary plan. 19. The method according to claim 17, wherein entering notes comprises completing predetermined fields provided on a displayed preliminary plan. 20. The method according to claim 17, wherein entering notes comprises selecting at least one element from a plurality of predetermined descriptive elements displayed at the first device. 