The present invention comprises a vacuum end effector having workpiece supports that work in conjunction with distorted workpiece surfaces. In one embodiment, each workpiece support has the ability to gimbal and conform the workpiece surface in contact with an outer edge of the support. Each workpiece support preferably provides a knife-like contact edge to minimize the contact area between the support and the workpiece while still providing an effective vacuum area to hold the wafer securely on the support. In another embodiment, each workpiece support is replaceable without having to remove the end effector from the robot assembly.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An end effector for transporting a semiconductor workpiece, comprising: a low-profile body having a proximal end and a distal end, said low-profile body including a recessed pocket in fluid communication with a vacuum channel passing through a portion of said low-profile body; a support pad partially seated within said recessed pocket, said support pad having a body with a central workpiece contact surface, a raised edge and at least one vacuum aperture passing through said body, wherein when a workpiece is seated on the end effector, a bottom surface of the workpiece contacts said central workpiece contact surface of said support pad and a gap exists between said raised edge of said support pad and the bottom surface of the workpiece, and the at least one vacuum aperture is in fluid communication with the raised edge of the support pad. 2. The end effector as recited in claim 1, wherein a diameter of said at least one vacuum aperture is greater than a height of the gap between said raised edge and a bottom surface of the workpiece. 3. The end effector as recited in claim 1, wherein said at least one vacuum aperture comprises a first vacuum aperture and a second vacuum aperture. 4. The end effector as recited in claim 3, wherein a height of the gap between said raised edge and a bottom surface of the workpiece is less than the diameter of either said first or said second vacuum apertures. 5. The end effector as recited in claim 1, wherein said support pad comprises a polymer. 6. The end effector as recited in claim 1, wherein said support pad comprises a circular geometry. 7. The end effector as recited in claim 1, wherein said central workpiece contact surface comprises a rounded surface. 8. The end effector as recited in claim 1, wherein said recessed pocket is located in said distal end of said low-profile body. 9. The end effector as recited in claim 8, further including a second recessed pocket located in said proximal end of said low-profile end effector. 10. The end effector as recited in claim 9, further including a second support pad partially seated within said second recessed pocket. 11. The end effector as recited in claim 1, wherein said recessed pocket is located in said proximal end of said low-profile body. 12. The end effector as recited in claim 11, further including a second recessed pocket located in said distal end of said low-profile end effector. 13. The end effector as recited in claim 12, further including a second support pad partially seated within said second recessed pocket. 14. The end effector of claim 1, wherein when a workpiece is seated on the end effector, the gap between said raised edge of said support pad and the bottom surface of the workpiece is less than a shortest distance between the vacuum aperture and the bottom surface of the workpiece. 15. An end effector for transporting a semiconductor workpiece, comprising: a low-profile body having a proximal end and a distal end, the low profile body including a recessed pocket having an opening in a bottom surface connecting said recessed pocket with a vacuum channel passing through a portion of said low-profile body; a support pad partially seated within said recessed pocket, including: a central portion having a first end, a second end and a vacuum channel extending between said first and second ends, said central portion extending through said opening in said recessed pocket such that said first end of said central portion is located within said vacuum channel; and a body extending outward from said second end of said central portion, said body transitioning into an elevated edge contact surface; and a retaining device, affixed to said first end of said central portion, for retaining said support pad within said recessed pocket; and a deformable support for separating said body from a bottom surface of said recessed pocket. 16. The end effector as recited in claim 15, wherein said elevated edge contact surface comprises a circular geometry. 17. The end effector as recited in claim 15, wherein said support pad comprises a polymer. 18. The end effector as recited in claim 15, wherein the recessed pocket is located at the distal end. 