In a semiconductor fabrication facility, a conveyor transports substrate carriers. The substrate carriers are unloaded from the conveyor and loaded onto the conveyor without stopping the conveyor. A load and/or unload mechanism lifts the substrate carriers from the conveyor during unloading operations, while matching the horizontal speed of the conveyor. Similarly, during loading operations, the load/unload mechanism lowers a substrate carrier into engagement with the conveyor while matching the horizontal speed of the conveyor. Individual substrates, without carriers, may be similarly loaded and/or unloaded from a conveyor.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A substrate transport system comprising: a conveyor adapted to transport a substrate carrier, the conveyor including a plurality of suspension assemblies, each suspension assembly adapted to suspend a respective substrate carrier from the conveyor; an unload mechanism adapted to unload the substrate carrier from the conveyor while the conveyor is moving the substrate carrier wherein the unload mechanism includes a support mounted for horizontal movement along a horizontal guide, and wherein the horizontal guide is mounted for vertical movement on vertical guides; and a controller coupled to the unload mechanism and adapted to raise the unload mechanism while substantially matching a velocity of the unload mechanism to a velocity at which the substrate carrier is transported by the conveyor. 2. The substrate transport system of claim 1, further comprising a motion profile for the unload mechanism, wherein the motion profile is determined based on the substrate carrier speed or the conveyor speed. 3. The substrate transport system of claim 1 wherein the controller is further adapted to cause the unload mechanism to contact the substrate carrier with substantially zero or zero velocity in a vertical direction as the substrate carrier is transported by the conveyor. 4. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 1, wherein the unload mechanism is adapted to disengage the substrate carrier from one of the suspension assemblies as the unload mechanism is raised. 5. The substrate transport system of claim 1 wherein the unload mechanism is adapted to contact the substrate carrier with substantially zero or zero velocity in a vertical direction as the substrate carrier is transported by the conveyor. 6. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 1, wherein the unload mechanism includes an end effector mounted on the support and adapted to support the substrate carrier. 7. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 6, wherein the end effector includes kinematic positioning features adapted to cooperate with features on the substrate carrier to guide the substrate carrier into position on the end effector. 8. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 1, wherein the substrate carrier is a single substrate carrier. 9. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 1, wherein the unload mechanism is also adapted to load a substrate carrier onto the conveyor as the conveyor is moving. 10. The substrate carrier transport system of claim 1, wherein the unload mechanism is adapted to move in a non-rotary path. 11. A method of operating a substrate carrier transport system, comprising: using a conveyor to move a substrate carrier, the conveyor including a plurality of suspension assemblies, each suspension assembly suspending a respective substrate carrier from the conveyor; and while the substrate carrier is moving along the conveyor, unloading the substrate carrier from the conveyor by moving an unload mechanism wherein the unloading includes moving the substrate carrier on a support along a horizontal guide while vertically moving the horizontal guide along vertical guides and wherein a controller controls the unload mechanism to raise the unload mechanism while substantially matching a velocity of the unload mechanism to a velocity at which the substrate carrier is transported by the conveyor. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein unloading the substrate carrier from the conveyor comprises moving the unload mechanism so that at a time when the unload mechanism contacts the substrate carrier a velocity of the unload member substantially matches a velocity at which the substrate carrier is moving along the conveyor. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the unload mechanism contacts the substrate carrier with substantially zero or negative acceleration. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein loading the substrate carrier onto the conveyor comprises moving the substrate carrier along the horizontal guide so that at a time when a substrate carrier being transported contacts the conveyor, a horizontal velocity of the substrate carrier substantially matches a velocity at which the conveyor is moving. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the substrate carrier contacts the conveyor with substantially zero or negative acceleration. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein a single mechanism functions to perform the unloading and loading. 17. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining a motion profile for unloading the substrate carrier, wherein the motion profile is determined based on the conveyor speed or the substrate carrier speed. 