A method of diagnosing a disease that includes obtaining experimental data on gene selections. The gene selection functions to characterize a cancer when the expression of that gene selection is compared to the identical selection from a noncancerous cell or a different type of cancer cell. The invention also includes a method of targeting at least one product of a gene that includes administration of a therapeutic agent. The invention also includes the use of a gene selection for diagnosing a cancer.
Claims The claimed invention is: 1. A method for diagnosing a particular type of cancer selected from the group consisting of rhabdomyosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma, neuroblastoma and Burkitt's lymphoma comprising: i) comparing a first expression profile of a set of genes from a human cell sample to the expression profiles of the set of genes from a cell of each of said types of cancer; wherein said set of genes comprises at least the human genes IGF2, CCND1, GAS1, CNN3, FCGRT, a gene that comprises SEQ ID NO: 457, IGFBP2, GYG2, and a gene that comprises SEQ ID NO:462, wherein the first expression profile is obtained by detecting expression of IGF2, wherein IGF2 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:72 or SEQ ID NO:73, of CCND1, wherein CCND1 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:5, of GAS1, wherein GAS1 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:59, of CNN3, wherein CNN3 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:43, of FCGRT, wherein FCGRT comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:20, of a gene that comprises SEQ ID NO:457, wherein the gene comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:77, of IGFBP2, wherein IGFBP2 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:28, of GYG2, wherein GYG2 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:21, and of a gene that comprises SEQ ID NO:462, wherein the gene comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:26; and ii) identifying the human cell sample as one of rhabdomyosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma, neuroblastoma or Burkitt's lymphoma based on the comparison of the first expression profile of the human cell sample to each of the expression profiles of rhabdomyosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma, neuroblastoma and Burkitt's lymphoma. 2. A method for distinguishing one type of human cancer cell from another type of human cancer cell, comprising: i) measuring the expression level of at least the human genes comprising IGF2, CCND1, GAS1, CNN3, FCGRT, a gene that comprises SEQ ID NO: 457, IGFBP2, GYG2, and a gene that comprises SEQ ID NO:462, wherein IGF2 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:72 or SEQ ID NO:73 wherein CCND1 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:5, wherein GAS1 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:59, wherein CNN3 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:43, wherein FCGRT comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:20, wherein the gene that comprises SEQ ID NO:457 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:77, wherein IGFBP2 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:28, wherein GYG2 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:21, and wherein the gene that comprises SEQ ID NO:462 comprises the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:26; and ii) analyzing the expression level of the human genes in the human cancer cell using a pretrained supervised pattern recognition method to obtain an output; and iii) determining whether the human cancer cell is a neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, Burkitt's lymphoma, or Ewing sarcoma cell by determining whether the output falls within the 95% of the output for the pretrained samples for that type of cancer cell. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein a neuroblastoma cell is distinguished from a rhabdomyosarcoma cell, a Ewing's sarcoma cell, or a Burkitt's lymphoma cell or mixtures thereof. 4. A method according to claim 2, wherein a rhabdomyosarcoma cell is distinguished from a neuroblastoma cell, a Ewing's sarcoma cell, or a Burkitt's lymphoma cell or mixtures thereof. 5. A method according to claim 2, wherein a Ewing's sarcoma cell is distinguished from a rhabdomyosarcoma cell, a neuroblastoma cell, or a Burkitt's lymphoma cell or mixtures thereof. 6. A method according to claim 2, wherein a Burkitt's lymphoma cell is distinguished from a rhabdomyosarcoma cell, a Ewing's sarcoma cell, or a neuroblastoma cell or mixtures thereof. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein comparing the expression profile comprises obtaining cDNA from the cell, labeling the cDNA with a detectable label, and identifying the expression levels of the genes by hybridizing the labeled cDNA to cDNA known to code for the genes. 8. The method of claim 2, wherein the supervised pattern recognition method is an artificial neural network. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein artificial neural network comprises an algorithm architecture selected from the group consisting of hard competitive learning, soft competitive learning without a fixed network dimensionality, and soft competitive learning with a fixed network dimensionality. 10. The method of claim 2, wherein the supervised pattern recognition method is trained with the expression levels of at least the genes comprising IGF2, CCND1, GAS1, CNN3, FCGRT, a gene that comprises SEQ ID NO:457, IGFBP2, GYG2, and a gene that comprises SEQ ID NO:462, in each of known cancer cell samples selected from the group consisting of rhabdomyosarcoma, Ewing's tumor, neuroblastoma, and Burkitt's lymphoma. 