A method and apparatus for controlling a haptic device. In one embodiment, the haptic device includes an actuator; an actuator sensor, producing an actuator signal indicative of the actuator velocity; a load; a load output sensor producing a load output signal indicative of the load position; and a controller in electrical communication with the load output sensor, actuator sensor and actuator. The controller controls the actuator in response to the actuator signal and the load output signal to provide a haptic response to a user. In one embodiment, the method for controlling an actuator of a haptic device includes the steps of producing an actuator signal indicative of the velocity of an actuator; producing a position signal indicative of the position of a load; and controlling the actuator in response to the actuator signal and the load output position signal to produce a haptic response to a user.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A haptic device comprising: an actuator; an actuator sensor configured to produce an actuator signal indicative of a velocity of the actuator; a load; a drive transmission coupled at a drive end with the actuator and at a load end with the load; a load output sensor configured to sense a position of the load and to produce a load output signal indicative of the sensed position of the load; and a controller in electrical communication with the load output sensor, the actuator sensor and the actuator, the controller configured to control the actuator in response to the actuator signal and the load output signal to provide a haptic response to a user. 2. The haptic device of claim 1 wherein the drive transmission is a cable drive transmission. 3. The haptic device of claim 1 wherein the controller is further configured to determine a gravity compensation torque and a Cartesian endpoint position in response to the load output signal. 4. The haptic device of claim 1 wherein the controller is further configured to control the actuator by computing an endpoint velocity by filtering the actuator signal to form a filtered actuator velocity and multiplying the filtered actuator velocity by a Jacobian. 5. The haptic device of claim 4 wherein the controller is further configured to compute a damping force by subtracting a reference velocity from the endpoint velocity to form an endpoint velocity difference and by multiplying the endpoint velocity difference by a damping gain. 6. The haptic device of claim 5 wherein the controller is further configured to compute a haptic force in response to the damping force. 7. The haptic device of claim 1 wherein the load output sensor is selected from the group consisting of an optical encoder, an electric encoder, a magnetic encoder, and a potentiometer. 8. A method for controlling an actuator of a haptic device comprising: producing an actuator signal indicative of a velocity of an actuator; sensing a position of a load using a load output sensor, wherein a drive transmission is coupled at a drive end with the actuator and at a load end with the load; producing a load position signal indicative of the sensed position of the load; and controlling the actuator in response to the actuator signal and the load position signal to produce a haptic response to a user. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising determining a gravity compensation torque and a Cartesian endpoint position in response to the load position signal. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein controlling the actuator comprises computing an endpoint velocity by filtering the actuator signal to form a filtered actuator velocity and multiplying the filtered actuator velocity by a Jacobian. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising computing a damping force by subtracting a reference velocity from the endpoint velocity to form an endpoint velocity difference and multiplying the endpoint velocity difference by a damping gain. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising computing a desired haptic force in response to the damping force. 13. A haptic device comprising: a motor; a motor sensor configured to produce a motor signal indicative of a velocity of the motor; a joint; a drive transmission coupled at a drive end with the motor and at a load end with the joint; a joint sensor configured to sense a position of the joint and to produce a joint position signal indicative of the sensed position of the joint; and a controller in electrical communication with the joint sensor, the motor sensor and the motor, the controller configured to control the motor in response to the motor signal and the joint position signal to provide a haptic response to a user. 14. A haptic device comprising: a transmission having an input side and an output side; an actuator in communication with the input side; an actuator sensor configured to produce an actuator signal indicative of an actuator velocity; a position sensor in communication with the output side, the position sensor configured to sense a position of the output side and to produce a position signal indicative of the sensed position of the output side; and a controller in electrical communication with the position sensor, the actuator sensor and the actuator, the controller configured to control the actuator in response to the actuator signal and the position signal to provide a haptic response to a user. 15. The haptic device of claim 14 wherein the controller is further configured to determine a gravity compensation torque and a Cartesian endpoint position in response to the position signal. 16. The haptic device of claim 14 wherein the controller is further configured to determine a damping force by subtracting a reference velocity from an endpoint velocity determined from the actuator signal to form an endpoint velocity difference and by multiplying the endpoint velocity difference by a damping gain. 17. The haptic device of claim 16 wherein the controller is further configured to compute a haptic force in response to the damping force. 18. The haptic device of claim 13 wherein the controller is further configured to determine a gravity compensation torque and a Cartesian endpoint position in response to the joint position signal. 19. The haptic device of claim 13 wherein the controller is further configured to determine a damping force by subtracting a reference velocity from an endpoint velocity determined from the motor signal to form an endpoint velocity difference and by multiplying the endpoint velocity difference by a damping gain. 20. The haptic device of claim 19 wherein the controller is further configured to compute a haptic force in response to the damping force. 