A vehicle framing system for framing an automotive vehicle body from a plurality of separate body components wherein the body components each include a reference surface. The system includes an assembly station having spaced-apart frame members positioned so that, when a vehicle carrier supporting the vehicle body components is positioned at the assembly station, the frame members extend along opposite sides of the vehicle carrier. At least two docking stations are secured to each frame member at predetermined locations. A robot mounts its associated tool arm with a docking station. At least one set of reference block and framing clamp is secured to each tool arm and these framing clamps maintain the reference surfaces of the vehicle body components against the reference blocks to hold the vehicle components at a predetermined position relative to each other. After each robot positions each associated tool arm with the docking station, the robot disengages from the tool arm and then welds the body components together by a welding gun carried by the robots.
Claims We claim: 1. A docking apparatus comprising: a docking station having a docking surface, a tool arm having a docking surface, at least three locator pins mounted on one or both of said docking surfaces, at least three locator sockets complementary in shape to said locator pins mounted on one or both of said docking surfaces, said locator pins and said locator sockets being positioned so that, when said tool arm is moved to a docking position relative to said docking station, each locator pin on each docking surface registers with a locator socket on the other docking surface, an actuator assembly mounted to said docking station and movable between an unlocked position in which said docking station and said tool arm are separable from each other and a locked position in which said docking station and said tool arm are secured against movement relative to each other, wherein said actuator assembly comprises a retainer attached to said tool arm and protruding outwardly from said tool arm docking surface, and a hook mounted to said docking station and movable between a locked position in which said hook disengages from said retainer and a locked position in which said hook engages said retainer. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said locator pin and socket have preferably a 90-degree angle frusto-conical shape. 3. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said locator pins and locator sockets are arranged in a triangle on said docking surfaces and wherein said retainer and said hook are positioned in the center of said triangle on their respective docking surface. 4. The invention as defined in claim 3 and comprising a first T-shaped brace positioned within said tool arm and having its ends aligned with and secured to a center of each locator pin or locator socket on said tool arm docking surface, said retainer being secured to said T-shaped brace. 5. The invention as defined in claim 4 and comprising at least one compressive member sandwiched between one end of said brace, and its associated locator pin or socket supporting structure. 6. The invention as defined in claim 4 and comprising a second T-shaped brace positioned within said docking station and having its ends aligned with and secured to a center of each locator pin or locator socket on said base docking surface, said hook being secured to said T-shaped brace. 7. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising an eccentric shaft, said hook being pivotally mounted to said eccentric shaft, a cam attached to said shaft, and a linear actuator attached to said cam so that said liner actuator pivots said cam and shaft as said linear actuator moves from a first to a second position, wherein said hook engages said retainer at a midpoint of the linear actuator movement from said first to said second position so that further movement of said linear actuator to said second position retracts said hook away from said retainer and imposes a tensile force on said hook and said retainer. 8. The invention as defined in claim 7 and comprising a spring which urges said hook toward said locked position, a dowel attached to said cam, and said hook having a stop surface which abuts against said dowel so that said cam retains said hook in said unlocked position against the force of said spring when said linear actuator is in said first position. 9. The invention as defined in claim 7 and comprising an array of electrical connectors pivotally connected to said base, wherein said cam pivots said electrical connector array outwardly from said docking station docking surface when said linear actuator moves to said second position. 10. The invention as defined in claim 9 wherein said cam comprises a pair of cam plates, said hook being sandwiched between said cam plates. 11. A docking apparatus comprising: a docking station having a docking surface, a tool arm having a docking surface, at least three locator pins mounted on one or both of said docking surfaces, at least three locator sockets complementary in shape to said locator pins mounted on one or both of said docking surfaces, said locator pins and said locator sockets being positioned so that, when said tool arm is moved to a docking position relative to said docking station, each locator pin on each docking surface registers with a locator socket on the other docking surface, an actuator assembly mounted to said docking station and movable between an unlocked position in which said docking station and said tool arm are separable from each other and a locked position in which said docking station and said tool arm are secured against movement relative to each other, a plate having a fluid port on said docking station, a fluid connector mounted on said tool arm which is aligned with said fluid port when said docking station and said tool arm are in said docking position. 12. The invention as defined in claim 11 wherein said fluid connector comprises a bore, a tubular piston mounted in said bore and movable between a retracted and extended position in which a free end of said piston protrudes outwardly from said tool support docking surface, a spring which urges said piston toward said extended position, and a seal mounted to said free end of said piston and adapted to engage said plate. 13. The invention as defined in claim 12 and comprising a seal disposed between an outer surface of said piston and said bore so that, upon pressurization of said fluid port, said fluid pressure generates an outward force on said piston to thereby compress said first seal against said plate. 