The invention relates to methods of measuring an aircraft under simulated flight-loads while the aircraft is not in-flight. While the aircraft is under the simulated flight-loads, positions of one or more portions of the aircraft may be measured in order to determine how the aircraft is performing under such loads. The aircraft may be readjusted and/or redesigned based on the measurements in order to reduce drag on the aircraft.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of measuring an aircraft under simulated flight-loads while not in flight comprising: placing at least one cradle device under each wing of the aircraft while the aircraft is disposed on a surface; placing at least another cradle device against each horizontal stabilizer of the aircraft; raising the aircraft off the surface by jacking up the at least one cradle device under each wing to apply upward forces against each wing; forcing the horizontal stabilizers in a downward direction by forcing the at least another cradle device downward against each horizontal stabilizer; applying simulated flight-loads to said aircraft by applying upward air pressure, supplied by the at least one cradle device, against each wing, and by applying downward air pressure, supplied by the at least another cradle device, against each horizontal stabilizer in order to substantially simulate loads on said aircraft during flight; and measuring a position of one or more portions of said aircraft while under said simulated flight-loads. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said simulated flight-loads are determined by measuring actual flight-loads of a second aircraft during flight. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said actual flight-loads are determined utilizing pressure sensing devices on said second aircraft during flight. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said pressure sensing devices deliver data to one or more computers. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said simulated flight-loads comprise loads determined by a computer model. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the measuring utilizes at least one target, laser tracker, photogrammetry camera, and light-projector. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said at least one target comprises a first portion adapted to reflect a laser beam towards said laser tracker and a second portion adapted to reflect a light beam towards said photogrammetry camera. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein a plurality of said targets are distributed on said aircraft. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein a plurality of said laser trackers are distributed around said aircraft. 10. The method of claim 7 further comprising at least one mobile measurement system. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said at least one mobile measurement system comprises an automated guided vehicle, a robot, said photogrammetry camera, said light-projector, and said target. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said at least one automated guided vehicle travels around said aircraft. 13. The method of claim 7 wherein deflections of wings of said aircraft, while said aircraft is under said simulated flight-loads, are measured utilizing multiple targets. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the measuring utilizes one or more computers. 15. The method of claim 1 further comprising utilizing position data obtained during the measuring in order to readjust said aircraft to reduce drag. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the applying further comprises at least one thin cushion air wall supporting the aircraft. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one cradle device and the at least another cradle device each comprise ribbed surfaces surrounding air chambers, and the applying comprises the air chambers supplying the upward and downward air pressure supporting the aircraft. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the at least one cradle device and the at least another cradle device each comprise at least one sensor, and further comprising measuring with the at least one sensor the air pressure being supplied by the air chambers. 19. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining expected flight-loads on said aircraft to approximate loads said aircraft experiences while in flight; the applying comprises applying said expected flight-loads to said aircraft while said aircraft is not in flight in order to substantially simulate the loads on said aircraft during flight; and the measuring comprises measuring said aircraft while under said expected flight-loads. 