The invention is directed to manipulator assembly (2) for holding and manipulating a surgical instrument (14) in a telerobotic system. The assembly comprises a base (6) fixable by passive or power driven positioning devices to a surface, such as an operating table, and an instrument holder (4) movably mounted on the base. The instrument holder comprises a chassis (6) and an instrument support (70) movably mounted on the body and having an interface engageable with the surgical instrument to releasably mount the instrument to the instrument holder. A drive assembly (7) is operatively coupled to the instrument holder for providing the instrument with at least two degrees of freedom. The instrument holder is separable from the base and the drive assembly so that the holder can be sterilized. The assembly further includes a force sensing element (52) mounted distal to the holder and the drive assembly for detecting forces exerted on the surgical instrument and providing feedback to the surgeon. The assembly is attached to a remote center positioner (300) for constraining the instrument to rotate a point coincident with the entry incision and an inclinometer (350) for preventing gravitational forces acting on the system's mechanisms from being felt by the surgeon.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical instrument comprising: an elongate member comprising a proximal portion, a bendable and steerable distal portion, and an inner lumen; an end effector coupled to the bendable and steerable distal portion of the elongate member; an actuator assembly coupled to the proximal portion of the elongate member, the actuator assembly comprising a drive assembly and an instrument holder, the instrument holder releasably coupled to the proximal portion of the elongate member, the drive assembly operatively coupled to the instrument holder to provide the elongate member with at least two degrees of freedom, the drive assembly releasably coupleable to a robotic manipulator assembly. 2. The surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the inner lumen receives one or more control wires for controlling steering of the distal portion of the elongate shaft. 3. The surgical instrument of claim 2, wherein a first end of the control wires are coupled to the bendable and steerable distal portion of the elongate member and a second end of the control wires are coupled to the actuator assembly. 4. The surgical instrument of claim 3, wherein the actuator assembly comprises one or more control motors coupled to the control wires to operate the control wire(s). 5. The surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the actuator assembly comprises a movable actuator pin laterally extending from the actuator assembly and extending through an axially extending slot in the elongate member to releasably couple the actuator assembly to the robotic manipulator assembly. 6. The surgical instrument of claim 1, the instrument holder comprising an actuator driver, the actuator driver driven by the drive assembly to actuate the end effector. 7. The surgical instrument of claim 6, wherein the end effector comprises jaws, wherein the actuator driver moves the jaw between an open position and a closed position. 8. The surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the end effectors are coupled to the bendable and steerable distal portion of the elongate member with a wrist. 9. The surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the end effector has at least three degrees of freedom. 10. The surgical instrument of claim 1 further comprising a cannula configured to be insertable through a percutaneous incision in the body of a patient during a surgical procedure, the cannula comprising an axial passage for supporting and receiving the elongate member therethrough so that the end effector is disposed adjacent a target site within the body of the patient. 11. The surgical instrument of claim 10, wherein the cannula comprises a force sensing element. 