A chromatography and fluidic device with connections capable of automated component changing, diagnostic leak and current sensing. The chromatography-electrospray device contains a chromatography column, a pre-column, a spray emitter, or other fluidic component imbedded within one or more inserts. The inserts are robotically placed in receiving hardware, and a "plug and play" compression fitting connection mechanism makes the fluidic seals in an automated fashion. A plurality of sensors capable of detecting leaks is situated in the device near leak-prone regions. The electrospray emitter has a current sensing electrode in proximity of the electrospray region, capable of detecting the electrospray current. In conjunction with an electronics system, these sensors allow for system and component diagnostics. The diagnostic information may then be used for manual or automated system repair.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compression connection to connect fluidic system components comprising: a first sealing device having a first elongated body with entry and exit openings at opposite ends, a first flange at the entry, a first cylindrical bore extending from the entry to the exit to hold a tube inside the bore, said first elongated body having a first frusto-conical tapered mating surface originating between said flange and the exit and extending to the exit; and a second sealing device having a second elongated body with entry and exit openings at opposite ends, a second flange at the entry, a second bore extending from the entry to the exit, said second bore proximate the entry having a second frusto-conical tapered mating surface for receiving the oppositely shaped first frusto-conical tapered mating surface of the first sealing device, said second frusto-conical tapered mating surface terminates in a second cylindrical portion of the second bore extending into the second elongated body, said second cylindrical bore having a diameter larger than the outer diameter of said tube, a drive force mechanism to provide a substantially rotational torque-free, axial drive force on one or both flanges to urge the first and second sealing devices towards each other and thereby create a leak-resistant seal between the first and second sealing devices by mating the first tapered frusto-conical tapered mating surface of the first sealing device with the oppositely shaped frusto-conical tapered mating surface of the second sealing device to resiliently compress the diameter of the first cylindrical bore and thereby seal the circumference of the tube; a force measurement sensor to measure the axial force compressing the first sealing device; and a force measurement system to receive feedback from the force measurement sensor and adjust the drive force mechanism to achieve a desired compression force. 2. The compression connection of claim 1 wherein the drive force mechanism advances in the axial direction to provide the substantially rotational torque-free axial drive force. 3. The compression connection of claim 1 further comprising an angled clamping mechanism in communication with the first and second sealing devices having a means for converting a radial force to an axial force, wherein the drive force mechanism advances in the radial direction against the angled clamping mechanism and the angled clamping mechanism converts the radial force to a substantially rotational torque-free axial drive force that compresses the first and second sealing devices in the axial direction. 4. The compression connection of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of drive force mechanisms to independently provide the substantially rotational, torque-free axial force compressing the first sealing device against the second sealing device. 5. The compression connection of claim 1 wherein the drive force mechanism is capable of sealing a plurality of compression connections in series or parallel. 6. The compression connection of claim 1 wherein the force measurement sensor measures the force on the first sealing device, the force provided by the drive force mechanism or both. 