Embodiments of the invention include a load lock chamber, a processing system having a load lock chamber and a method for transferring substrates between atmospheric and vacuum environments. In one embodiment, the method includes maintaining a processed substrate within a transfer cavity formed in a chamber body for two venting cycles. In another embodiment, the method includes transferring a substrate from a transfer cavity to a heating cavity formed in the chamber body, and heating the substrate in the heating cavity. In another embodiment, a load lock chamber includes a chamber body having substrate support disposed in a transfer cavity. The substrate support is movable between a first elevation and a second elevation. A plurality of grooves are formed in at least one of a ceiling or floor of the transfer cavity and configured to receive at least a portion of the substrate support when located in the second elevation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transferring substrates between an atmospheric environment and a vacuum environment, comprising: transferring a first unprocessed substrate from an atmospheric environment onto a first substrate support disposed in a first substrate transfer cavity formed in a load lock chamber body, the first transfer cavity having a first processed substrate that was processed in the vacuum environment positioned on a second substrate support; evacuating the first transfer cavity containing the first unprocessed substrate and the first processed substrate; transferring the first unprocessed substrate into a vacuum environment from the first substrate support; and transferring a second processed substrate that was processed in the vacuum environment from the vacuum environment onto the first substrate support. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: venting the first substrate transfer cavity; and transferring the first processed substrate from the second substrate support to the atmospheric environment. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: transferring a second unprocessed substrate onto the second substrate support from the atmospheric environment evacuating the first substrate transfer cavity containing the second unprocessed substrate and the second processed substrate; transferring the second unprocessed substrate from the second substrate support into the vacuum environment; transferring a third processed substrate that was processed in the vacuum environment to the second substrate support from the vacuum environment; venting the first substrate transfer cavity containing the third processed substrate and the second processed substrate; transferring the second processed substrate from the first substrate support to the atmospheric environment; transferring a third unprocessed substrate from the atmospheric environment onto the first substrate support; and evacuating the first substrate transfer cavity containing the third unprocessed substrate and the third processed substrate. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: transferring a second unprocessed substrate from the atmospheric environment onto a third substrate support disposed in a second substrate transfer cavity formed in the load lock chamber body, the second transfer cavity having a third processed substrate that was processed in the vacuum environment positioned on a fourth substrate support; evacuating the second transfer cavity; transferring the second unprocessed substrate into the vacuum environment from the third substrate support; and transferring a fourth processed substrate that was processed in the vacuum environment from the vacuum environment to the third substrate support. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising: venting the second substrate transfer cavity; and transferring the third processed substrate from the fourth substrate support to the atmospheric environment. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising: transferring a third unprocessed substrate onto the fourth substrate support from the atmospheric environment; evacuating the second substrate transfer cavity containing the third unprocessed substrate and the fourth processed substrate; transferring the third unprocessed substrate from the fourth substrate support into the vacuum environment; transferring a fifth processed substrate that was processed in the vacuum environment onto the fourth substrate support from the vacuum environment; venting the second substrate transfer cavity containing the fourth and fifth processed substrates; transferring the fourth processed substrate from the third substrate support to the atmospheric environment; transferring a third unprocessed substrate from the atmospheric environment to the third substrate support; and evacuating the second substrate transfer cavity containing the third unprocessed substrate and the fifth processed substrate. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: cooling the first processed substrate. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein cooling further comprises: moving the first processed substrate proximate to at least one of a floor or ceiling of the first transfer cavity. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein moving further comprises: placing the first processed substrate in contact with the load lock chamber body. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising: transferring the first unprocessed substrate from the vacuum environment into a heating chamber formed in the chamber body. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein heating further comprises: heating the substrate under vacuum conditions. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein heating further comprises: sealing the heating chamber from a transfer chamber; and raising the pressure within the heating chamber. 13. The method of claim 10 further comprising: transferring the heated, unprocessed substrate from the heating chamber into the vacuum environment. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the first substrate support and the second substrate support are vertically aligned within the first substrate transfer cavity. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising selectively adjusting the vertical alignment of the first and second substrate supports, wherein the first and second substrate supports are independently movable. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the first substrate support and the second substrate support are vertically movable relative to each other within the first substrate transfer cavity. 17. A method for transferring substrates between an atmospheric environment and a vacuum environment, comprising: transferring a first unprocessed substrate from an atmospheric environment onto a first substrate support disposed in a first substrate transfer cavity formed in a load lock chamber body, the first substrate transfer cavity having a first processed substrate that was processed in the vacuum environment positioned on a second substrate support; evacuating the first transfer cavity containing the first unprocessed substrate and the first processed substrate; transferring the first unprocessed substrate to a vacuum environment from the first substrate support; and transferring a second processed substrate that was processed in the vacuum environment from the vacuum environment to the first substrate support, wherein the first processed substrate is moved proximate to the load lock chamber body using the first substrate support when the first processed substrate has been relatively cooled, thereby facilitating heat exchange between the first processed substrate and the load lock chamber body. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the first processed substrate is moved in contact with the load lock chamber body. 