The invention provides an apparatus and method for manipulating parts of the body in surgical procedures, particularly useful for peritoneal distension in laparoscopic surgery. The apparatus comprises a positionable support structure having an extendible horizontal arm rotatably mounted to an extendible vertical post, the post having a clamp at its lower end for mounting to a surgical table. An end segment at the distal end of the horizontal arm has a mount for mounting end-of-arm tooling, for example, peritoneal distension instruments. Locking mechanisms are disposed in the horizontal arm, vertical post and end segment to lock the support structure in a desired position. A motor is disposed within the vertical post for power-assisted extension and retraction of the vertical post. Preferably, the locking mechanisms and motor are controllable using switches mounted on the end segment. The method comprises providing a support structure as described mounted to a surgical table, positioning the distal end of the horizontal arm over a patient on the table, activating locking mechanisms in the horizontal arm and vertical post to lock the support structure in position, attaching peritoneal distension instruments to the distal end of the horizontal arm, and vertically extending the vertical post while the horizontal arm remains locked relative to the post, thereby distending the peritoneum of the patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A positionable support structure adapted to be mounted on a table, said support structure comprising: an extendible vertical post having a lower end and an upper end and comprising plurality of telescoping vertical segments; means for removably securing the lower end of the vertical post to the table; an extendible arm extending generally horizontally from the vertical post and having a proximal end and a distal end, said proximal end being pivotally secured to the a distal end, said proximal end being pivotally secured to the upper end of the vertical post, whereby the horizontal arm can be rotated about an axis defined by the vertical post; means for releasably locking the position of the horizontal arm relative to the vertical post; and means for vertical extension and retraction of the vertical post while the horizontal arm remains locked relative to the vertical post. 2. A positionable support structure as in claim 1, wherein said means for releasably locking includes an actuation switch disposed on the distal end of the horizontal arm. 3. A positionable support structure as in claim 1, wherein said means for power-assisted vertical extension and retraction includes an actuation switch disposed on the distal end of the horizontal arm. 4. A positionable support structure as in claim 1 further comprising an end segment pivotally attached to the distal end of the horizontal arm. 5. A positionable support structure as in claim 1 wherein the extendible horizontal arm comprises a plurality of telescoping horizontal segments. 6. A positionable support structure as in claim 5 wherein the means for releasably locking comprises friction-inducing means in said telescoping horizontal segments for locking said arm in a radial position, said friction-inducing means responsive to loading at the distal end of the horizontal arm. 7. A positionable support structure as in claim 5 wherein said means for releasably locking includes means for rotationally locking said horizontal arm in position relative to said vertical post. 8. A positionable support structure adapted to be mounted on a table, said support structure comprising: an extendible vertical post having a lower end and an upper end, said extendible vertical post comprising a plurality of telescoping vertical segments; means for removably securing the lower end of the post to the table; an extendible horizontal arm having a proximal end and a distal end, said extendible horizontal arm comprising a plurality of telescoping horizontal segments, wherein said proximal end is pivotally secured to the upper end of the extendible vertical post such that the extendible horizontal arm can be rotated about an axis defined by the post; an end segment pivotally attached to the distal end of the horizontal arm; means for releasably locking the relative positions of the vertical post, horizontal arm, and end segment; and means for power-assisted extension of the vertical post, said means including an actuator switch mounted on the end segment. 9. A positionable support structure as in claim 8 wherein the means for releasably locking comprises locking mechanisms mounted interior to said horizontal segments for locking said arm in a radial position. 10. A positionable support structure as in claim 9 wherein said means for releasably locking includes means for rotationally locking said horizontal arm in position relative to said vertical post. 11. A positionable support structure as in claim 10 wherein said means for rotationally locking comprises a plurality of discs in a stacked relationship, a first selected number of said discs being fixed to said horizontal arm and a second selected number of said discs being fixed to said vertical post, and means for fictionally engaging said first selected number with said second selected number. 12. A positionable support structure as in claim 10, further comprising means for releasably locking said end segment in position relative to the horizontal arm. 13. A positionable support structure as in claim 9 wherein said means for releasably locking include an electric solenoid configured so that the horizontal arm is locked in position when no current is applied to said solenoid and the horizontal arm is movable when current is applied to the solenoids. 14. A positionable support structure as in claim 12 wherein said means for releasably locking includes an electric solenoid configured so that the end segment is locked in position when no current is applied to said solenoid and the end segment movable when current is applied to the solenoids. 15. A positionable support structure as in claim 9 further comprising a switch on the end segment for actuating the locking mechanisms. 16. A positionable support structure as in claim 8 wherein the means for releasably locking comprises friction-inducing means in said telescoping horizontal segments, said friction-inducing means responsive to loading at the distal end of the horizontal arm. 17. A positionable support structure as in claim 8 wherein the means for power-assisted extension and retraction includes an electric motor. 18. A positionable support structure as in claim 8 wherein the end segment includes means for mounting tooling thereon. 19. A positionable support structure as in claim 18 wherein the means for mounting allows the tooling mounted thereon to move upward in response to an upward force applied against it. 20. A positionable support structure as in claim 18 further comprising draping means removably covering said vertical post and horizontal arm for isolating the support structure from the surrounding atmosphere, said draping means coupling to said means for mounting. 21. A positionable support structure as in claim 8 wherein the means for releasably locking has a force limit allowing the horizontal arm and end segment to be moved when a force greater than the force limit is applied. 22. A positionable support structure as in claim 8 wherein said means for power-assisted extension and retraction has a selectable load limit preventing said vertical post from further extension when said load limit is exceeded. 23. A positionable support structure as in claim 8 wherein the end segment is attached to the horizontal arm by a rotary joint, said rotary joint comprising: a hub fixed to the horizontal arm; and an axle held by the hub, the end segment being fixed to the axle. 24. A positionable support structure as in claim 8 wherein the end segment is attached to the horizontal arm by a ball-and-socket joint. 25. A positionable support structure as in claim 8 wherein said horizontal segments include means for preventing rotation of said segments relative to each other. 26. A positionable support structure adapted to be mounted on a table, said support structure comprising: an extendible vertical post having a lower end and an upper end; means for removably securing the lower end of the vertical post to a table; an extendible arm extending generally horizontally from the vertical post and having a proximal end and a distal end, said proximal end being pivotally secured to the upper end of the vertical post and comprising a plurality of telescoping horizontal segments, whereby the horizontal arm can be rotated about an axis defined by the vertical post; means for releasably locking the position of the horizontal arm relative to the vertical post; and means for vertical extension and retraction of the vertical post while the horizontal arm remains locked relative to the vertical post. 27. A positionable support structure as in claim 26, wherein said means for releasably locking includes an actuation switch disposed on the distal end of the horizontal arm. 28. A positionable support structure as in claim 26, wherein said means for power-assisted vertical extension and retraction includes an actuation switch disposed on the distal end of the horizontal arm. 29. A positionable support structure as in claim 26 further comprising an end segment pivotally attached to the distal end of the horizontal arm. 30. A positionable support structure as in claim 26 wherein the extendible vertical post comprises a plurality of telescoping vertical segments. 31. A positionable support structure as in claim 26 wherein the means for releasably locking comprises friction-inducing means in said telescoping horizontal segments for locking said arm in a radial position, said friction-inducing means responsive to loading at the distal end of the horizontal arm. 32. A positionable support structure as in claim 26 wherein said means for releasably locking includes means for rotationally locking said horizontal arm in position relative to said vertical post. 