A shaft has a head attached at one end and terminates at the other end in a tapered tip. A slot passes through the shaft, extending from the end opposite the head at least partially along the length of the shaft. Helical thread segments extend along the shaft, matching the thread in the threaded hole. The screw is inserted by pushing it into the threaded hole; the shaft halves are compressed together until the outer diameter of the thread segments on the shaft is smaller than the inner diameter of the threads in the threaded hole. The shaft halves spring back to their uncompressed position after insertion. The thread segments on the shaft mesh with the thread in the hole, retaining the shaft in the hole after insertion. The shaft must be removed by unscrewing the shaft.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A machine screw for attachment to a threaded hole, said machine screw comprising: a head adapted to being rotated; a cylindrical shaft connected to the head and having a proximal portion and a distal portion, the proximal shaft portion being adjacent to the head; the distal shaft portion including an elongated slot therein; at least a portion of the proximal shaft portion adjacent to the distal shaft portion including threads on the surface thereof; the distal shaft portion including a plurality of thread segments on the surface thereof; and a compressible bridge integral with a distal end of the distal shaft portion thereby defining a distal end of the slot and the shaft portion of the machine screw has an undeformed first position wherein the outside diameter of the threads define a cylinder having parallel sides and a deformed second position whereby the compressible bridge portion is deformed by compression and the outside diameter of the threads of the distal shaft portion has a reduced diameter adapted to be smaller than an inside diameter of the threaded hole for longitudinal sliding insertion therein. 2. A machine screw as recited in claim 1, wherein the machine screw is fabricated from a resilient material. 3. A machine screw as recited in claim 1, wherein the head includes a slot for receiving a screwdriver. 4. A machine screw as recited in claim 1, wherein the thread segments terminate in edges parallel to a line tangent to the shaft at the center of the slot. 