A robot arm end effector in the form of a multi-fingered hand having a conformable grasp. Each articulating finger includes multiple phalanges sequentially interconnected by pivot points such that each finger articulates in one plane. One filament pair, which controls finger articulation within the plane, is routed through a respective finger by a system of pulleys and is controlled by a DC motor. Driving the associated motor in a first direction causes a respective finger to articulate in a first direction within the plane. Reversing the motor direction causes the respective finger to articulate in a second direction within the plane. Individual phalanges articulate independently of the motion of adjacent phalanges. A second filament pair may be employed to pivot a respective finger about a base axis resulting in out of plane motion of the finger.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot arm end effector providing conforming, adaptive grasping of varied objects, comprising: a palm having a first surface; a plurality of base couplings disposed on said first surface; a plurality of digits, each of said digits disposed on a respective one of said plurality of base couplings, each of said digits comprised of a plurality of sequentially disposed phalanges; a system of sequentially disposed pulleys within each of said digits, each of said pulleys being freely rotatable; a first pair of antagonistic filaments disposed within said system of pulleys, said first pair of filaments comprised of a first filament and a second filament, said first filament disposed on alternating sides of sequential ones of said system of pulleys, and said second filament disposed on opposing sides of said sequential ones of said system of pulleys with respect to said first filament; and motive means associated with said first pair of antagonistic filaments for simultaneously retracting said first filament and allowing extension of said second filament. 2. The end effector according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of digits is comprised of a thumb digit and a plurality of finger digits. 3. The end effector according to claim 2, wherein said thumb digit is comprised of a proximal phalange and a distal phalange. 4. The end effector according to claim 3, wherein each of said plurality of finger digits is comprised of a proximal phalange, an intermediate phalange, and a distal phalange. 5. The end effector according to claim 4, wherein each of said proximal and intermediate phalanges is comprised of a pair of parallel, spaced apart support elements, at least one spacing element disposed therebetween, and a first and a second joint termination disposed at respective ends of said phalange. 6. The end effector according to claim 5, wherein each of said distal phalanges is comprised of a pair of parallel, spaced apart support elements, and a first joint termination and an anchor location disposed at respective ends of said phalange. 7. The end effector according to claim 6, wherein each of said plurality of base couplings is comprised of a pivotally mounted platform and a pair of parallel support elements extending therefrom, said pair of support elements mated to a respective first joint termination, thus forming a pivot point. 8. The end effector according to claim 7,wherein a pivot point is formed at a juncture of a respective second joint termination and a respective first joint termination of two sequential phalanges. 9. The end effector according to claim 8, each said system of pulleys comprising a joint pin disposed at each of said pivot points and an idler pin centrally disposed within each said proximal phalange and each said intermediate phalange, said idler pin extending between and orthogonal to said parallel support elements thereof. 10. The end effector according to claim 9, wherein said system of pulleys further comprises a joint pulley disposed about each of said joint pins and an idler pulley disposed about each of said idler pins. 11. The end effector according to claim 10, wherein said first pair of antagonistic filaments further comprises a digit contraction filament slidably disposed on a first side of each of said joint pulleys and on a second side of each of said idler pulleys, and a digit retraction filament slidably disposed on a second side of each of said joint pulleys and on a first side of each of said idler pulleys. 12. The end effector according to claim 11, wherein each filament of said first pair of antagonistic filaments has an attachment point at a respective distal phalange anchor point. 13. The end effector according to claim 1, wherein each of said digits further comprises at least one sensor disposed on a respective phalange. 14. A robot hand providing a conformable grasp, comprising: a palm; a plurality of articulable digits disposed on said palm; a plurality of pulley systems, each disposed within a respective one of said plurality of digits and each further comprising a plurality of pulleys, each of said pulleys being freely rotatable, and two non-interfering filament paths defining opposite travel paths on alternating sides of sequential ones of said plurality of pulleys within a respective pulley system; first and second antagonistic filaments disposed within respective ones of said two non-interfering filament paths of each of said plurality of pulley systems; and a motor for simultaneously retracting said first antagonistic filament while slackening said second antagonistic filament to provide independent control over digit contraction and retraction. 15. The robot hand according to claim 14, each of said plurality of articulable digits comprising a plurality of sequentially disposed phalanges, wherein relative motion of said plurality of phalanges of one of said plurality of digits defines a first plane. 16. The robot hand according to claim 15, each of said pulley systems comprising a joint pulley disposed at each intersection of contiguous sequentially disposed phalanges and an idler pulley disposed intermediate said joint pulleys. 17. The robot hand according to claim 16, each of said plurality of articulable digits further comprising a distal phalange, said distal phalange comprising a joint pulley and a filament anchor point. 