A modular product assembly platform which includes a multiple number of industrial robots or other similar assembly devices. The product assembly platform also includes a programmable controller system housed in a logic control cabinet, a vision control system housed in a vision control cabinet and a set of robot controllers which operate together to control the robots or assembly devices for performing product assembly tasks. The layout and configuration of the platform and the control equipment provide for convenience and flexibility in configuring and reconfiguring the assembly platform for different assembly procedures associated with different products.
Claims We claim: 1. A modular product assembly platform, comprising: a plurality of industrial robots adapted for assembly tasks including robot arms and robot tools; a deck for mounting said industrial robots having first and second sides and first and second ends including means for detachably mounting said robots; a plurality of robot controllers for controlling the geographic positioning of said robot arms including said robot tools; a conveyance system for transporting parts or products under assembly across said deck past said robots; a programmable controller mounted at said first end of said deck for coordinating the operations of said robots by controlling the positioning of said robots arms through said robot controllers, by directly controlling said robot tools and by directly controlling said conveyance system for product assembly; and a user configurable vision system mounted on said second end of said deck for use in identifying and locating products or parts in coordination with the operation of said industrial robots. 2. The product assembly platform of claim 1, wherein said means for detachably mounting includes a set of standardized mounting rails secured to a planar mounting bed and said platform further includes one or more standardized sets of utility service outlets along said first side of said deck adjacent to said mounting bed. 3. The product assembly platform of claim 1, further including a control console mounted along said first side of said deck for communicating with said controller and enabling operator control over said platform and a message display device mounted above said control console and connected to said programmable controller. 4. A product assembly network which may be readily reconfigured to assemble different products, comprising: A) a plurality of modular product assembly platforms each of which includes: a deck for mounting industrial robots having mounting gear for mounting said robots onto said deck, a plurality of industrial robots adapted for performing product assembly tasks which are detachably mounted on said deck and each of which includes a movable robot arm and a robot tool attached to this arm, a conveyance system for transporting products under assembly across said mounting deck past said robots, a plurality of robot controllers one of which is associated with each of said robots for controlling the geographic positioning of the arm of the robot with which each robot controller is associated, a programmable controller for regulating and coordinating the operations of said robots by actuating said robot controllers to control said robots in performing robot arm positioning operations and directly controlling the operation of said robot tools on said robots and said conveyance system for product assembly purposes; and B) means for conveying products and parts between said modular platforms; and C) a network controller in communication with said programmable controllers on said platforms for regulating and coordinating the operations of said platforms and said means for conveying products or parts. 5. The product assembly network of claim 4, wherein said network controller comprises a programmable controller which is integrated with an information processing system capable of executing general purposes computer programs. 6. The product assembly network of claim 4, wherein said platforms further include user configurable vision systems for use in detecting the position of products or parts in coordination with one or more of said robots on said platforms. 7. The product assembly network of claim 4, wherein said platforms further include a control console mounted along one side of each of the platforms which is connected to and in communication with the programmable controller for the platform. 8. The product assembly network of claim 7, wherein the mounting gear one each of said platforms includes a set of standardized mounting rails and each platform further includes one or more standardized sets of utility service outlets adjacent to said mounting deck. 9. The product assembly network of claim 7, wherein each of said platforms further include a message display device mounted above said control console and connected to and in communication with the programmable controller for the platform. 10. A modular product assembly platform, comprising: a plurality of industrial assembly machines; a deck for mounting said assembly machines; a set of mounting gear for detachably securing said assembly machines onto said deck at variable locations including; a set of mounting rails characterized by a modified T shape having an incline on one lateral side which intersects said deck at an acute angle and a notch its on the other lateral side which intersects said deck at a right angle; a plurality of machine control units mounted under said deck and connected to said machines for controlling said machines; a conveyance system for transporting products under assembly across said mounting bed past said assembly machines from a first side of said bed to a second side of said bed; a programmable controller connected to said machine control units for controlling and coordinating the operations of said machines and said conveyance system for product assembly purposes; and a control console mounted along a third side of said platform for communicating with said programmable controller. 11. The product assembly platform of claim 10, further including a data display unit for displaying messages pertinent to operations taking place on the platform which is mounted above said control console and connected to said programmable controller. 