The media management system uses a rule based system to manage the media assignment function for a data processor. This apparatus comprises a set of software programs that communicate in real time with various standard software components on the data processor and also retrieves information describing data stored on the data storage devices themselves to compile information concerning data set activity. The media management system reviews data set size, off-site requirements for the data set, space available on DASD as well as other data set characteristics to dynamically select the most appropriate media type and specific device to store the data set. In addition, the media management system dynamically adjusts the data set management policy based upon detected patterns of customer usage of data sets and the size of the data sets that are stored on the peripheral devices in order to meet the customer's specified requirements for availability, accessibility, performance, location (local, remote), retention and security.
Claims I claim: 1. A media management apparatus for use with a data processor that processes data stored in data sets, comprising: a plurality of data storage devices, connected to said data processor, for storing data sets for said data processor, said plurality of data storage devices being divided into at least two classes of data storage devices, each said class of data storage devices differing from others of said at least two classes of data storage devices in data storage characteristics; means, responsive to said data processor generating commands to access an identified data set, for receiving said commands; means for selecting, based on historical data of said identified data set and independent of said data processor, a one of said at least two classes of data storage devices to store said identified data set, wherein said historical data includes data set size of a last most recently created generation of said identified data set; and means for transmitting data to said data processor indicative of said selected one class of data storage devices for said data processor to store said identified data set thereon. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said identified data set is a new data set of an existing generation data set, said selecting means comprises: means for identifying a location on said at least two classes of data storage devices that stores a last most recently created data set of said existing generation data set; means for retrieving data set activity data relating to said last most recently created generation data set stored in said identified location; and means for comparing said activity data to at least one predetermined threshold to identify a one class of data storage devices to store said new generation data set. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said comparing means comprises: means for computing an extent of said last most recently created generation data set; and means for comparing said extent to a predetermined data set size threshold to select said one class of data storage devices to store said new generation data set. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said comparing means comprises: means for collecting data that identifies a migration history of said last most recently created generation data set; and means for comparing said migration history to at least one predetermined threshold to identify said one class of data storage devices to store said new generation data set. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said comparing means comprises: means for collecting data that identifies usage of said last most recently created generation data set; and means for comparing said usage data to at least one predetermined threshold to identify said one class of data storage devices to store said new generation data set. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said selecting means comprises: means, responsive to said data processor retrieving an existing data set from an identified one of said plurality of data storage devices, for determining whether said retrieved data set should be written back to said identified one data storage device. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said selecting means further comprises: means for identifying a one of said plurality of data storage devices, different in data storage characteristics from said identified one data storage device, to store said retrieved data set when said determining means indicates that said retrieved data set should not be written back to said identified one data storage device. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said receiving means comprises: means, responsive to said data processor designating said one of said plurality of classes of data storage devices to store said identified data set, for disabling said selecting means. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least two classes of data storage devices comprise: a plurality of tape drives, connected to said data processor, for reading/writing data sets for said data processor on mountable tape media; and at least one rotating media data storage subsystem, connected to said data processor, for reading/writing data sets for said data processor on rotating data storage media. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least two classes of data storage devices comprise: an automatic mountable tape media handling system, connected to said data processor, for robotically storing and retrieving a plurality of mountable tape media for a plurality of tape drives that are connected to said data processor, to read/write data sets for said data processor on selected ones of said mountable tape media that are mounted by said automatic mountable tape media handling system in said plurality of tape drives; and at least one rotating media data storage subsystem, connected to said data processor, for reading/writing data sets for said data processor on rotating data storage media. 11. The media management apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for selecting also includes means for accessing a system catalog to obtain said historical data of said identified data set. 12. A method of managing media for use with a data processor that processes data stored in data sets on a plurality of data storage devices connected to said data processor, said plurality of data storage devices being divided into at least two classes of data storage devices, each said class of data storage devices differing from others of said at least two classes of data storage devices in data storage characteristics, said method comprising the steps of: receiving, in response to said data processor generating commands to access an identified data set, said commands; selecting, based on historical data of said identified data set and independent of said data processor, a one of said at least two classes of data storage devices to store said identified data set, wherein said historical data includes data set size of a last most recently created generation of said identified data set; and transmitting data to said data processor indicative of said selected one class of data storage devices for said data processor to store said identified data set thereon. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said identified data set is a new data set of an existing generation data set, said step of selecting comprises: identifying a location on said at least two classes of data storage devices that stores a last most recently created data set of said existing generation data set; retrieving data set activity data relating to said last most recently created generation data set stored in said identified location; and comparing said activity data to at least one predetermined threshold to identify a one class of data storage devices to store said new generation data set. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said step of comparing comprises: computing an extent of said last most recently created generation data set; and comparing said extent to a predetermined data set size threshold to select said one class of data storage devices to store said new generation data set. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein said step of comparing comprises: collecting data that identifies a migration history of said last most recently created generation data set; and comparing said migration history to at least one predetermined threshold to identify said one class of data storage devices to store said new generation data set. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein said step of comparing comprises: collecting data that identifies usage of said last most recently created generation data set; and comparing said usage data to at least one predetermined threshold to identify said one class of data storage devices to store said new generation data set. 17. The method of claim 12 wherein said step of selecting comprises: determining, in response to said data processor retrieving an existing data set from an identified one of said plurality of data storage devices, whether said retrieved data set should be written back to said identified one data storage device. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said step of selecting further comprises: identifying a one of said plurality of data storage devices, different in data storage characteristics from said identified one data storage device, to store said retrieved data set when said determining means indicates that said retrieved data set should not be written back to said identified one data storage device. 19. The method of claim 12 wherein said step of receiving comprises: disabling, in response to said data processor designating said one of said at least two classes of data storage devices to store said identified data set, said selecting means. 20. The method of managing media of claim 12, wherein said step of selecting further comprises a step of accessing a system catalog to obtain said historical data of said identified data set. 21. A media management apparatus for use with a data processor that processes data stored in data sets and maintains data in a memory that identifies a physical storage location of each said data sets, comprising: a plurality of tape drives connected to said data processor, for reading/writing data sets for said data processor on mountable tape media; at least one rotating media data storage subsystem, connected to said data processor, for reading/writing data sets for said data processor on rotating data storage media; means, responsive to said data processor generating commands to access an identified data set, for receiving said commands; means for selecting, based on historical data of said identified data set and independent of said data processor, a one of said plurality of tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said identified data set, wherein said historical data includes data set size of a last most recently created generation of said identified data set; and means for transmitting data to said data processor indicative of said selected one of said plurality of tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem for said data processor to store said identified data set thereon. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said identified data set is a new data set for an existing tape generation data set, said selecting means comprises: means for identifying a location on said mountable tape media that stores a last most recently created data set of said existing tape generation data set; means for retrieving data set activity data from said memory relating to said last most recently created tape generation data set stored in said identified location; and means for comparing said activity data to at least one predetermined threshold to identify a one of said tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said new generation data set. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said comparing means comprises: means for computing an extent of said last most recently created tape generation data set; and means for comparing said extent to a predetermined data set size threshold to select said one of said tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said new tape generation data set. 24. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said comparing means comprises: means for collecting data that identifies a migration history of said last most recently created tape generation data set; and means for comparing said migration history to at least one predetermined threshold to identify said one of said tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said new tape generation data set. 25. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said comparing means comprises: means for collecting data that identifies usage of said last most recently created tape generation data set; and means for comparing said usage data to at least one predetermined threshold to identify said one of said tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said new tape generation data set. 26. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said selecting means comprises: means, responsive to said data processor retrieving an existing data set from an identified one of said mountable tape media mounted on a one of said plurality of tape drives, for determining whether said retrieved data set should be written to said rotating media data storage subsystem. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said transmitting means comprises: means for identifying said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said retrieved data set when said determining means indicates that said retrieved data set should not be written back to said identified mountable tape media. 28. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said receiving means comprises: means, responsive to said data processor designating said one of said plurality of tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said identified data set, for disabling said selecting means. 29. A method of managing media for use with a data processor that processes data stored in data sets and maintains data in a memory that identifies a physical storage location of each said data sets as stored on a plurality of tape drives, connected to said data processor, for reading/writing data sets for said data processor on mountable tape media and at least one rotating media data storage subsystem, connected to said data processor, for reading/writing data sets for said data processor on rotating data storage media, comprising the steps of receiving, in response to said data processor generating commands to access an identified data set, said commands; selecting, based on historical data of said identified data set and independent of said data processor, a one of said plurality of tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said identified data set, wherein said historical data includes data set size of a last most recently created generation of said identified data set; and transmitting data to said data processor indicative of said selected one of said plurality of tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem for said data processor to store said identified data set thereon. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein said identified data set is a new data set for an existing tape generation data set, said selecting means comprises: means for identifying a location on said mountable tape media that stores a last most recently created data set of said existing tape generation data set; means for retrieving data set activity data from said memory relating to said last most recently created tape generation data set stored in said identified location; and means for comparing said activity data to at least one predetermined threshold to identify a one of said tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said new generation data set. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein said step of comparing comprises: collecting data that identifies usage of said last most recently created tape generation data set; and comparing said usage data to at least one predetermined threshold to identify said one of said tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said new tape generation data set. 32. The method of claim 30 wherein said step of comparing comprises: computing an extent of said last most recently created tape generation data set; and comparing said extent to a predetermined data set size threshold to select said one of said tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said new tape generation data set. 33. The method of claim 30 wherein said step of comparing comprises: collecting data that identifies a migration history of said last most recently created tape generation data set; and comparing said migration history to at least one predetermined threshold to identify said one of said tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said new tape generation data set. 34. The method of claim 29 wherein said step of selecting comprises: determining, in response to said data processor retrieving an existing data set from an identified one of said mountable tape media mounted on a one of said plurality of tape drives, whether said retrieved data set should be written to said rotating media data storage subsystem. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein said step of transmitting comprises: identifying said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said retrieved data set when said step of determining indicates that said retrieved data set should not be written back to said identified mountable tape media. 36. The method of claim 29 wherein said step of receiving comprises: disabling, in response to said data processor designating said one of said plurality of tape drives and said rotating media data storage subsystem to store said identified data set, said step of selecting. 