A processor for processing integrated circuit wafers, semiconductor substrates, data disks and similar units requiring very low contamination levels. The processor has an interface section which receives wafers in standard wafer carriers. The interface section transfers the wafers from carriers onto trays for processing. The interface unit can hold multiple groups of multiple trays. A conveyor having an automated arm assembly moves wafers supported on a tray. The conveyor moves the trays from the interface along a track to several processing stations. The processing stations are accessed from an enclosed area adjoining the interface section.
Claims We claim: 1. A semiconductor processor for processing wafers, comprising: a frame; an enclosure connected to the frame for providing an enclosed work space; an interface port in said general enclosure through which wafers are moved relative to said work space; an interface for moving wafers through said interface port relative to said work space; a wafer transfer for transferring wafers from a wafer carrier to a wafer tray; a plurality of processing stations; said processing stations having access openings which open to the work space to allow installation and removal of wafers relative to said processing stations; a conveyor for conveying wafers loaded onto said wafer trays to and from said plurality of processing stations. 2. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising at least one wafer tray; said wafer tray being constructed such that wafers positioned therein have greater exposure of wafer surfaces than when said wafers are positioned in said wafer carrier. 3. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said wafer transfer includes a first carriage which is movable. 4. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said wafer transfer includes a first carriage which is movable; said first carriage having a transfer opening through which a wafer tray is elevated to remove wafers from the wafer carrier. 5. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said wafer transfer includes a transfer elevator. 6. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said wafer transfer includes: a first carriage which is movable; said first carriage having a transfer opening through which a wafer tray is elevated to remove wafers from the wafer carrier; a transfer elevator. 7. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising a loaded tray holding station for holding wafer trays which are loaded with wafers. 8. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising a second carriage which is movable. 9. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising a second carriage which is movable; said second carriage having a loaded tray holding station for holding wafer trays which are loaded with wafers. 10. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising a movable first carriage and a movable second carriage. 11. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising a movable first carriage and a movable second carriage; said first movable carriage forming part of said interface; said second movable carriage having a loaded tray holding station for holding wafer trays which are loaded with wafers. 12. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising: a movable first carriage; said first carriage forming part of said interface; said first carriage having a transfer opening through which a wafer tray is elevated to remove wafers from the wafer carrier; a movable second carriage; said second carriage having a loaded tray holding station for holding wafer trays which are loaded with wafers; a transfer elevator for moving the wafer tray through the transfer opening and wafer carrier to transfer wafers onto the wafer tray. 13. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising: a movable first carriage; said first carriage forming part of said interface; said first carriage having a transfer opening through which a wafer tray is elevated to remove wafers from the wafer carrier; said first carriage further having an empty tray pass-through opening through which an empty wafer tray is lowered by said elevator; a movable second carriage; said second carriage having a loaded tray holding station for holding wafer trays which are loaded with wafers; a transfer elevator for moving the wafer tray through the transfer opening and wafer carrier to transfer wafers onto the wafer tray. 14. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising: a movable first carriage; said first carriage forming part of said interface; a transfer opening through said first carriage and through which a wafer tray is elevated to remove wafers from the wafer carrier; an empty tray pass-through opening in said first carriage through which an empty wafer tray is lowered by said elevator; empty wafer tray storage for holding empty wafer trays; a movable second carriage; said second carriage having a loaded tray holding station for holding wafer trays which are loaded with wafers; a transfer elevator for moving the wafer tray through the transfer opening and wafer carrier to transfer wafers onto the wafer tray. 15. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising a transfer elevator having an enlarged elevator head and a relatively narrow elevator stem. 16. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes a mechanical arm assembly with a hand portion that engages a wafer tray. 17. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes a mechanical arm assembly; said mechanical arm assembly having: an upper arm portion; a lower arm portion connected to the upper arm portion; a hand portion connected to the lower arm portion, said hand portion serving to engage a wafer tray. 18. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes a conveyor tram carriage movably mounted upon the frame. 19. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor includes a mechanical arm assembly; said mechanical arm assembly having: a conveyor tram carriage movably mounted upon the frame; an upper arm portion mounted upon said conveyor tram carriage for pivotal motion at a shoulder pivot; a lower arm portion connected to the upper arm portion for pivotal motion at an elbow pivot; a hand portion connected to the lower arm portion for pivotal motion at a wrist pivot; a wafer tray engagement tool connected to the hand portion. 20. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of processing stations includes at least one centrifugal processing station. 21. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of processing stations includes at least one centrifugal processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted to controllably open and close the access opening. 22. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of processing stations includes at least one processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted for controlled upward and downward action; said processing closure serving to controllably close and open the access opening. 23. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of processing stations includes at least one centrifugal processing station having an access opening with a processing closure mounted for controlled upward and downward action; said processing closure serving to controllably close and open the access opening. 24. A wafer handling interface for moving and transferring wafers positioned in a wafer carrier onto a wafer tray, comprising: a frame; a first carriage mounted upon said frame for lateral movement; a carrier positioner on said first carriage for stabilizing the position of a wafer carrier positioned thereon; a transfer opening through said first carriage and through which a wafer tray is elevated to remove wafers from the wafer carrier; a transfer elevator for moving a wafer tray through the transfer opening and wafer carrier to transfer wafers onto the wafer tray. 25. A wafer handling interface according to claim 24 and further comprising at least one wafer tray; said wafer tray being constructed such that wafers positioned therein have greater exposure of wafer surfaces than when said wafers are positioned in said wafer carrier. 26. A wafer handling interface according to claim 24 and further comprising a loaded tray holding station for storing wafer trays which have been loaded with wafers. 27. A wafer handling interface according to claim 24 and further comprising a second carriage mounted upon said frame for lateral movement. 28. A wafer handling interface according to claim 24 and further comprising a second carriage mounted upon said frame for lateral movement; said second carriage having a loaded tray holding station for storing wafer trays which have been loaded with wafers. 29. A wafer handling interface according to claim 24 and further comprising an empty tray pass-through opening in said first carriage through which an empty wafer tray is lowered by said elevator. 30. A wafer handling interface according to claim 24 and further comprising: an empty tray pass-through opening in said first carriage through which an empty wafer tray is lowered by said elevator; empty wafer tray storage for holding empty wafer trays. 31. A wafer handling interface according to claim 24 and further comprising: an empty tray pass-through opening in said first carriage through which an empty wafer tray is lowered by said elevator; empty wafer tray storage for holding empty wafer trays; a movable second carriage; said second carriage having a loaded tray holding station for holding wafer trays which are loaded with wafers. 32. A wafer handling interface according to claim 24 wherein said transfer elevator has an enlarged elevator head and a relatively narrow elevator stem. 33. A wafer transfer apparatus for transferring wafers positioned in a wafer carrier onto a wafer tray, comprising: a frame; a wafer carrier positioner for stabilizing the position of a wafer carrier positioned thereon; a transfer opening through said wafer carrier positioner and through which a wafer tray is elevated to remove wafers from the wafer carrier; a transfer elevator for moving a wafer tray through the transfer opening and wafer carrier to transfer wafers onto the wafer tray. 34. A wafer transfer apparatus according to claim 33 and further comprising a movable carriage which is connected to the frame for lateral motion; said movable carriage having a loaded tray holding station for holding wafer trays which are loaded with wafers. 35. A wafer transfer apparatus according to claim 33 and further comprising said wafer tray; the wafer tray having spaced parallel grooves for receiving wafers therein. 36. A wafer transfer apparatus according to claim 33 and further comprising said wafer tray; the wafer tray having spaced parallel grooves which are shaped semi-circularly for receiving wafers therein. 37. A wafer handling interface according to claim 24 and further comprising said wafer tray having a profile height less than one-quarter the height of said wafers. 38. A wafer handling interface according to claim 24 and further comprising said wafer tray having a profile height less than one-quarter the height of said wafers; the wafer tray having spaced parallel grooves which are shaped semi-circularly for receiving wafers therein. 