A production line tracking and quality control system and method thereof comprises a series of pallets for carrying one or more first contact lens mold halves or one or more complementary second contact lens mold halves throughout a contact lens fabrication facility. Each pallet of the series is transported on a conveyor device throughout the fabrication facility, and each pallet includes a unique identifying code. The fabrication facility includes one or more process stations and a control device provides real time monitoring of contact lens fabrication processes at the one or more process stations. The control device further includes a tracking device for identifying the unique code of each of the pallets at one or more process stations while continually receiving monitored process condition values at each station. For each identified pallet, the control device generates process status information for memory storage in the form of a reject flag, when the process conditions are out of predetermined limits, or, an acceptance flag indicating that process conditions are within predetermined limits. The process status information is updated when the pallets are identified and the status of each pallet is checked when entering or exiting a process station.
Claims We claim: 1. A production line tracking and quality control system comprising: (a) a series of pallets for carrying one or more first contact lens mold halves or one or more complementary second contact lens mold halves throughout a contact lens fabrication facility, each said pallet including a unique identification code; (b) a conveyor apparatus for transporting said series of pallets throughout said contact lens fabrication facility, said fabrication facility including one or more process stations; (c) a controller for providing real time monitoring of contact lens fabrication processes at said one or more process stations, said controller including first tracking means for identifying said unique identification code of each said pallets at said one or more process stations of said facility, said controller receiving process conditions values at each station and generating process status information for each identified pallet in the form of a reject flag when said process conditions are out of predetermined limits, said controller including memory storage means having unique memory locations for storing said process status information corresponding to each pallet of said series of pallets, said process status information further including a flag indicating that an identified pallet is acceptable for further processing at another station when aid received process conditions are within predetermined limits, said controller capable of generating time stamp information indicating a specific time each pallet is identified by said tracking means at each said one or more process stations of said facility, each said time stamp information additionally stored in said unique memory location corresponding to each said identified pallet; (d) first means for depositing said one or more first contact lens mold halves on pallets of said series; (e) second means for depositing said one or more complementary second contact lens mold halves on other pallets of said series, said controller generating an initial time stamp value corresponding to the time of each deposit of said first and complementary second mold halves on their respective pallets; and wherein each said pallets carrying first and complementary second contact lens mold halves are conveyed to a low-oxygen environment for transport therein to another of said process stations of said facility, said low oxygen environment including a nitrogen buffer enclosure containing nitrogen gas, wherein a predetermined number of pallets are present within said enclosure at any one time. 2. The production line tracking and control system according to claim 1 wherein said controller enables said conveyor means to specifically reject and remove from further processing each identified pallet having process status information in the form of a reject flag. 3. The production line tracking and control system according to claim 1 wherein said one or more first contact lens mold halves and one or more complementary second contact lens mold halves are deposited on their respective pallets of said series in an ambient air environment. 4. The production line tracking and quality control system according to claim 1 wherein said first tracking means identifies pallets on said conveyor apparatus at an entrance to said enclosure, and enables said controller to generate time stamp information comprising a first time stamp value corresponding to the time each pallet of said series enters said enclosure, each said time stamp value stored in a respective said unique memory location corresponding to each said identified pallet. 5. The production line tracking and control system according to claim 4 wherein said controller includes calculating means for determining the oxygen exposure time for the first and complementary second contact lens molds carried by respective identified pallets that are carrying said first and complementary second contact lens mold halves, said oxygen exposure time for each identified pallet constituting a time difference between said initial time stamp value and said first time stamp value data of each identified pallet. 6. The production line tracking and quality control system according to claim 5 wherein said controller includes means for determining whether each said first and complementary second contact lens mold oxygen exposure times for each identified pallet are above a predetermined limit, said controller further generating a flag when said calculated first and complementary second contact lens mold oxygen exposure times of each pallet are determined to be above said predetermined limit. 7. The production line tracking and quality control system according to claim 6 wherein said predetermined limit value of said contact lens mold oxygen exposure time is about 15 seconds. 8. The production line tracking and quality control system according to claim 1 wherein said controller further includes second tracking means for tracking a predetermined number of identified pallets within a process station of said facility at any one point in time, said second tracking means including shift register means having unique memory locations for storing data corresponding to each said predetermined number of pallets. 9. The production line tracking and quality control apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said controller further includes oxygen sensor means for monitoring the oxygen concentration in said enclosure and enabling said controller to verify that the oxygen content within said enclosure is within a predetermined range. 10. The production line tracking and quality control apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said controller generates a reject flag for storage in each said unique memory location corresponding to each of said predetermined number of pallets contained in said enclosure when said oxygen content within said enclosure rises above a pre-determined limit. 11. The production line tracking and quality control apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said predetermined range is from about 0.3 per cent to about 0.5 per cent oxygen concentration. 12. The production line tracking and quality control apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said contact lens fabrication facility includes a monomer filling station, said first tracking means identifying pallets on said conveyor means at an entrance to said monomer filling station and enabling said controller to generate a second time stamp value corresponding to the time each pallet of said series exits said nitrogen buffer enclosure and enters said monomer filling station. 13. The production line tracking and quality control apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said controller calculates nitrogen buffer exposure time for each pallet transported through said enclosure, said nitrogen buffer time for each identified pallet constituting a time difference between said second time stamp value and said first time stamp value data of each identified pallet. 14. The production line tracking and quality control apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said controller determines whether each said first and complementary second contact lens mold nitrogen buffer exposure times for each identified pallet are below a predetermined limit, said control means generating a flag when said calculated first and complementary second contact lens mold nitrogen buffer exposure times of each pallet are determined to be below said predetermined limit. 15. The production line tracking and quality control apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said predetermined limit value of said contact lens mold exposure time is about 3.0 minutes. 16. The production line tracking and quality control apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said fabrication facility further includes means located adjacent said conveyor means for positioning pallets carrying said first contact lens mold halves adjacent pallets carrying complementary second lens mold halves, and conveying, in an alternating sequence, pallets carrying complementary second lens mold halves with pallets carrying first contact lens mold halves on said conveyor means for transport to said monomer filling station. 17. The production line tracking and quality control apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said monomer filling station includes means for depositing a predetermined amount of polymerizable compound in each front curve lens mold halves carried by pallets in said alternating sequence of pallets conveyed thereto. 