A three-dimensional measuring method obtains three-dimensional information related to an image including one or a plurality of objects based on input information which describes the image. The method includes the steps of (a) selecting information necessary for calculating marks of presumed information from the input information, where each of the marks are used to evaluate the appropriateness of the presumed information, (b) calculating marks of each pixel of the image based on the information selected by the step (a) and based on feedback information which is derived from an internal state, where the internal state includes information related to the object for each pixel of the image, (c) adding the marks for each pixel calculated in the step (b) for each object so as to obtain a total mark, (d) arbitrarily changing the internal state so as to reduce the total mark, and (e) outputting the internal state in which the total mark is a local minimum as the three-dimensional information.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A three-dimensional measuring method adapted for obtaining three-dimensional information related to an image including at least one object based on input information which describes the image, said three-dimensional measuring method adapted to be utilized during control operations of a robotic device, said image comprising a plurality of pixels, said three-dimensional measuring method comprising the steps of: (a) selecting information necessary for calculating mark values of presumed information from the input information, each of said mark values being used to evaluate the appropriateness of the presumed information, said presumed information modeling said image; (b) calculating mark values corresponding to each pixel of the image based on the information selected by said step (a) and based on feedback information related to said presumed information which is derived from an internal state, said internal state including information related to the object corresponding to each pixel of the image; (c) adding the mark values for each pixel calculated in said step (b) for each object so as to obtain a total mark value; (d) arbitrarily changing the internal state so as to reduce the total mark value; (e) outputting the internal state in which the total mark value is a local minimum as the three-dimensional information; and (f) controlling movement of a robotic device based on the internal state output during said outputting step (e). 2. The three-dimensional measuring method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the internal state includes information indicating the object to which each pixel of said image belongs, information indicating the distance to the object, and information indicating the manner of movement of each pixel of said image. 3. The three-dimensional measuring method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the information indicating the object to which each pixel belongs and the information indicating the manner of movement of each pixel are treated as unknown values. 4. The three-dimensional measuring method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said presumed information includes first information which describes continuity of depth of each object, and second information which describes the depth of each object of said at least on object. 5. The three-dimensional measuring method as claimed in claim 4, wherein said first information includes at least one information selected from a group consisting of hue information related to each pixel, chroma information related to each pixel, luminance information related to each pixel, and feature point distribution related to a distribution of feature points said image. 6. The three-dimensional measuring method as claimed in claim 4, wherein said presumed information further includes third information which describes discontinuity of the depth of each object of said at least one object. 7. The three-dimensional measuring method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the third information includes at least one information selected from a group consisting of information related to a distribution of pixels where hue and chroma suddenly change spatially, information related to a distribution of pixels where luminance suddenly changes spatially, and the feedback information describing the object to which each pixel belongs. 8. The three-dimensional measuring method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the input information includes color and brightness information related to the image. 9. The three-dimensional measuring method as claimed in claim 1, which further comprises the step of: (f) obtaining the distance to the object and reflecting this distance to a distance between each pixel to the object. 10. The three-dimensional measuring method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the input information is received from a single camera which picks up said image of said scene. 11. A three-dimensional measuring system for obtaining three-dimensional information related to an image of a scene including one or a plurality of objects based on input information which describes the image, said three-dimensional measuring system adapted to control movement of a robotic device, said three-dimensional measuring system comprising: selecting means for selecting information necessary for calculating mark values of presumed information from the input information, each of said mark values being used to evaluate the appropriateness of the presumed information, said presumed information modeling said scene; storing means coupled to said selecting means, for storing an internal state of said the three-dimensional measuring system, said internal state including information related to the object for each pixel of the image; calculating means coupled to said selecting means and to said storing means, for calculating mark values of each pixel of the image based on the information selected by said selecting means and based on feedback information related to said presumed information which is derived from an internal state; adding means coupled to said calculating means for adding the mark values for each pixel calculated by said calculating means for each object so as to obtain a total mark value; changing means coupled to said adding means and to said storing means for arbitrarily changing the internal state stored in said storing means so as to reduce the total mark value; output means, coupled to said storing means, for outputting the internal state in which the total mark value is a local minimum as the three-dimensional information; and a control unit configured to control said robotic device based on said internal state as output by said output means. 12. The three-dimensional measuring system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the internal state includes information indicating the object to which each pixel belongs, information indicating the distance to the object, and information indicating the manner of movement of each pixel. 13. The three-dimensional measuring system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the information indicating the object to which each pixel belongs and the information indicating the manner of movement of each pixel are treated as unknowns. 14. The three-dimensional measuring system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the presumed information includes first information which describes continuity of depth of each object, and second information which describes the depth of each object. 15. The three-dimensional measuring system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the first information includes at least one information selected from a group consisting of hue information related to each pixel, chroma information related to each pixel, luminance information related to each pixel, and feature point distribution related to a distribution of feature points in the image. 16. The three-dimensional measuring system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the presumed information further includes third information which describes discontinuity of the depth of each object. 17. The three-dimensional measuring system as claimed in claim 16, wherein the third information includes at least one information selected from a group consisting of information related to a distribution of pixels where hue and chroma suddenly change spatially, information related to a distribution of pixels where luminance suddenly changes spatially, and the feedback information describing the object to which each pixel belongs. 18. The three-dimensional measuring system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the input information includes color or brightness information related to the image. 19. The three-dimensional measuring system as claimed in claim 11, which further comprises means for obtaining the distance to the object and reflecting this distance to a distance between each pixel to the object. 20. The three-dimensional measuring system as claimed in claim 11, which further comprises a single camera for picking up the objects and producing the input information. 