Apparatus is provided for sewing the crotch portion of a pair of aligned blanks of limp fabric and stacking the sewn blanks which comprises robots (10 and 20) located one on each side of an operator. Each of the robots (10 and 20) is capable of gripping and removing a limp fabric blank from an associated stack of blanks and transporting the blanks to an operator. The robots (10 and 20) have arms (26) capable of axial movement and movement in a vertical plane and additionally capable of rotating about their axes through an angle of 180.degree.. At least one of the robots (10,20) is capable of rotation about a vertical axis, effecting horizontal movement of the arm (26). The apparatus also comprises a sewing head (30) for sewing the crotch portion of the pair of aligned blanks, and a blank support/transfer carriage (41) adjacent the sewing head mounted for horizontal movement in a direction substantially parallel with the direction of sewing. A clamp unit (60) is associated with the blank support/transfer carriage (41). The apparatus also includes an integral gripping and stacking mechanism (52,57) which is capable of gripping and stacking the sewed blanks supported on the blank/transfer carriage (41) at the extremity of its movement away from the sewing head (30).
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic unit for removing limp fabric blanks from a stack of blanks and orienting the same for operator grasping, said robotic unit comprising: a gripping device; and an arm mounting said gripping device for translational and rotational movement, whereby said gripping device is positionable to grip a fabric blank in a respective stack of blanks, movable to carry the gripped fabric blank away from the stack of blanks, and rotatable through an angle of 180.degree. to invert the gripped blank; wherein the blank gripping device comprises a pair of wheels and an associated plate, said wheels being rotatable in two directions to provide a pinching grip of the blank on engagement therewith when the wheels rotate in one direction, and to release the blank when rotated in the opposite direction. 2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the arm of the robotic unit is mounted for rotation about a vertical axis to effect horizontal movement of said gripping device. 