An apparatus and method are provided for the reduction of bone fractures. The apparatus includes an x-ray imaging system which compares the fractured bone with an unfractured bone, a robot controller which controls a robot hand so as to move the fractured bone in response to a command from a physician, and a safeguard system to detect abnormal tension in the limbs which can sound an alarm and cease robot motion if an error is detected. The method includes the comparison of x-ray images of unfractured and fractured bones and the movement of a robot hand grasping a fractured bone in a direction suitable for effective bone reduction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for the reduction of bone fractures, comprising: an x-ray system for imaging the bone fractures with at least one x-ray generator and one camera: an imaging system coupled to said x-ray system for accepting image inputs of the bone fractures from said camera and for generating results; a computer image analyzer for analyzing the results of said imaging system; a robot with at least one manipulator for moving the bone fractures imaged by said x-ray system and a robot controller to drivingly control said at least one manipulator, said robot controller accepting commands from said analyzer. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a sensor and a safeguard system to rapidly cease robot movement upon command of said sensor. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said sensor senses a tension transmitted through the robot manipulators to sense the tension in a limb. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said safeguard system includes an operator-operable stop mechanism. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising an alarm, wherein said safeguard system sounds said alarm when an error is detected. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said at least one manipulator is radiotransparent. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said at least one manipulator is in a shape of a cuff. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said at least one manipulator is in a shape of a shallow "U". 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said at least one manipulator is in a shape of a shoe. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said at least one manipulator is in a shape of a glove. 11. A method for reducing bone fractures, comprising the steps of: (a) taking a first x-ray image of a fractured bone at approximately a point of fracture; (b) taking a second x-ray image of the fractured bone at approximately the point of fracture, said second image taken at a predetermined angle from said first image; (c) taking a third x-ray image of an unfractured bone, the unfractured bone having substantially the same shape and size as the fractured bone, said third image taken at approximately the same angle as said first image and viewing approximately the same area of bone as the point of fracture; (d) taking a fourth x-ray image of the unfractured bone at substantially the predetermined angle from said third image, said fourth image taken at approximately the same angle as said second image and viewing approximately the same area of bone as the point of fracture; (e) manipulating at least one section of a limb containing a fractured bone segment with at least one robotic hand; (f) monitoring a difference between said first image and said third image and between said second image and said fourth image; and (g) repeating steps (a)-(f) until said first image and said third image are substantially the same and said second image and said fourth image are substantially the same. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said at least one robotic hand is x-ray transparent. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein said first image and said third image are Anterior-Posterior views. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein said second image and said fourth image are Lateral views. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the manipulating step is performed by a robot controller operated from a remote control. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the manipulating step includes applying traction. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein the manipulating step includes applying counter-rotation. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein the manipulating step includes applying a bone push. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein the manipulating step includes applying anti-angulation. 20. The method of claim 11, wherein the manipulating step includes applying impaction. 21. The method of claim 11, wherein said predetermined angle is approximately ninety degrees. 22. The method of claim 11, further comprising the steps of: (a) analyzing the difference between said first image and said third image, and generating a first signal directly proportional to said difference; (b) analyzing the difference between said second image and said fourth image, and generating a second signal directly proportional to said difference; and (c) incrementally moving said at least one robotic hand such that said first signal and said second signal are reduced. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of: (a) generating a suggested direction corresponding to a direction of a greatest decrease in the values of the first and second signals. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising the step of communticating said suggested direction to an operating physician by way of a display. 25. The method of claim 11, further comprising the steps of taking the images with an x-ray generator and a camera and revolving said generator and camera corresponding to said first image substantially about the point of fracture until a contour of the proximal end of the bone imaged by said first image appears substantially the same as a contour of a proximal end of the bone of said third image. 26. The method of claim 11, further comprising the steps of taking the images with an x-ray generator and a camera and revolving said generator and camera corresponding to said second image substantially about the point of fracture until the proximal end of the bone imaged by said second image appears substantially the same as a contour of a proximal end of the bone of said fourth image. 27. The method of claim 11, wherein step (e) further comprises the steps of: (1) grasping a bone distal of the fractured bone with a manipulator; (2) manipulating said distal bone using said manipulator such that a reduction procedure is performed on the fractured bone; and (3) repeating steps (1) and (2) for different reduction procedures until the fractured bone is successfully reduced. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein said manipulator is a cuff. 29. The method of claim 27, wherein said manipulator is a glove. 30. The method of claim 27, wherein said manipulator is a shoe. 31. A method for reducing bone fractures, comprising the steps of: (a) taking at least two x-ray images of a fractured bone at different angles with respect to a fixed reference point and at approximately a point of fracture; (b) manipulating at least one section of a limb containing the bone fracture with at least one robotic hand; (c) monitoring said at least two x-ray images of the fractured bone; (d) repeating steps (a)-(c) until the bone fracture is reduced. 32. An apparatus for reducing bone fractures, comprising: an x-ray system for imaging at least one section of a limb containing bone fractures and for taking: a first continuous x-ray image of a fractured bone at approximately a point of fracture; a second continuous x-ray image of the fractured bone at approximately the point of fracture, said second image taken at a predetermined angle from said first image; a third continuous x-ray image of an unfractured bone, the unfractured bone having substantially the same shape and size as the fractured bone, said third image viewing approximately the same area of bone as the point of fracture; and a fourth continuous x-ray image of the unfractured bone at substantially the predetermined angle from said third image, said fourth image viewing approximately the same area of bone as the point of fracture; at least one robotic hand for manipulating the at least one section of a limb containing bone fractures; and an image analyzer coupled to said x-ray system for analyzing said x-ray images and for monitoring a difference between and said first image and said third and between said second image and said fourth image. 33. An apparatus for the reduction of bone fractures, comprising: an x-ray system for imaging the bone fractures with at least two x-ray generators and two cameras; an imaging system coupled to said x-ray system for accepting image inputs of the fractures from each of said two cameras and for generating results; a computer image analyzer for analyzing the results of said imaging system; a robot with at least one manipulator for moving the bone fractures and a robot controller to drivingly control said at least one manipulator, said robot controller accepting commands from said analyzer. 34. A method for reducing bone fractures, comprising the steps of: (a) taking two x-ray images of an unfractured bone with a fixed biplane x-ray system, an angle between said two x-ray images being substantially ninety degrees, one of the images being substantially an Anterior-Posterior view, and digitally storing said images; (b) taking two x-ray images of a fractured bone with said fixed biplane x-ray system, one of the images being substantially an Anterior-Posterior view; (c) rotating said fixed biplane x-ray system; (d) repeating steps (b)-(c) until the Anterior-Posterior view of the fractured bone appears substantially the same as the Anterior-Posterior view of the unfractured bone; (e) manipulating at least one section of a limb containing the fractured bone with at least one robotic hand; (f) comparing said two x-ray images of the fractured bone with said two x-ray images of said unfractured bone; and (g) repeating steps (e)-(f) until the bone fracture is reduced. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein step (e) further comprises the steps of: (a) grasping a bone distal of the fractured bone with the at least one robotic hand; (b) rotating said distal bone using said robotic hand such that the distal bone and the distal end of the fractured bone form a predetermined angle; and (c) applying a force to said robotic hand such that the proximal and distal ends of the fractured bone move away from each other in a direction parallel with the axis of the fractured bone. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein said predetermined angle is approximately ninety degrees. 37. The method of claim 35, wherein said robotic hand is a cuff. 38. The method of claim 35, wherein said robotic hand is a glove. 39. The method of claim 35, wherein said robotic hand is a shoe. 40. A method for reducing bone fractures, comprising the steps of: (a) taking a first x-ray image of a fractured bone at approximately a point of fracture; (b) taking a second x-ray image of the fractured bone at approximately the point of fracture, said second image taken at a predetermined angle from said first image; (c) taking a third x-ray image of an unfractured bone, the unfractured bone having substantially the same shape and size as the fractured bone, said third image taken at approximately the same angle as said first image and viewing approximately the same area of bone as the point of fracture, and storing said third image; (d) taking a fourth x-ray image of the unfractured bone at substantially the predetermined angle from said third image, said fourth image taken at approximately the same angle as said second image and viewing approximately the same area of bone as the point of fracture, and storing said fourth image; (e) manipulating at least one section of a limb containing a fractured bone segment with at least one robotic hand; (f) monitoring a difference between said first image and said third image and between said second image and said fourth image; and (g) repeating steps (a), (b), (e), and (f), in that order, until said first image and said third image are substantially the same and said second image and said fourth image are substantially the same. 