A method including a preheating stage wherein rheocast light alloy ingots are preheated to a temperature within the solidification range of the alloy; and a die casting stage wherein a mold is filled with the semiliquid alloy. The preheating stage is performed in a forced-convection-heated tunnel furnace, with the ingots housed inside cup-shaped containers which, following a temperature check, are tipped by a robot to unload the ingots into the injection chamber of a die casting machine. Work is conducted within a temperature range depending on the composition of the alloy, and such that, at the minimum permissible injection temperature, the ingot is incapable of maintaining its own shape, and, at the maximum permissible injection temperature, the apparent viscosity of the ingot is such as to ensure the mold is filled under laminar flow conditions.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of semiliquid die casting a metal alloy comprising: placing a rheocast ingot of the metal alloy in a container; preheating the metal alloy ingot to a semiliquid state in a forced-convection-heated furnace; withdrawing the container and the preheated metal alloy contained therein from the furnace; immersing a thermocouple in the metal alloy during transfer of the container from the furnace thereby determining whether the metal alloy is within an acceptable temperature range, said acceptable temperature range being dependent upon the composition of the metal alloy and ranging from a minimum permissible injection temperature at which the ingot begins to be visibly incapable of maintaining its shape to a maximum permissible injection temperature at which the metal alloy has an apparent viscosity such that the metal alloy may fill a mold under laminar flow conditions; and transferring the metal alloy from the container into an injection chamber operatively connected to the mold when the metal alloy is within the acceptable temperature range and rejecting the metal alloy when the metal alloy is not within the acceptable temperature range. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the mold comprises at least two half molds facing and movable in relation to each other, each of the half molds having an independent preheating means for heating each respective half mold above ambient temperature when the metal alloy is injected into the half molds. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the half molds are maintained at a temperature ranging between 250.degree. C. and 350.degree. C. when the metal alloy is introduced into the half molds. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the mold comprises at least two half molds and the method further comprises: lubricating the half molds; and forming a vacuum inside the half molds when the mold is in a closed position and prior to introduction of the metal alloy into the half molds. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein there is a plurality of ingots and containers and the preheating of the ingots is performed in a tunnel furnace, each ingot being housed inside a respective one of said containers, said containers being advanced through the furnace in a plurality of side by side rows; and said containers having means for maintaining a space between the ingot and an inner surface of the respective container whereby air is circulated about the ingot as long as the ingot is capable of maintaining an independent shape. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the containers and the ingots contained therein are advanced by a first and second powered roller conveyor supporting said containers; the second roller conveyor being located at a furnace unloading station, said second roller conveyor being activated independently of the first roller conveyor and operatively connected to a sensor means whereby one container from each of said side by side rows may be aligned against a limit stop at the unloading station. 7. A system for semiliquid die casting a metal alloy comprising: a tunnel furnace for preheating the ingots to a temperature within the solidification range of said metal alloy; a plurality of containers for holding the ingots; a first robotic handling device operatively associated with a loading station located at a first end of the tunnel furnace whereby said first robotic handling device places each ingot into a respective container and loads a side-by-side plurality of the ingots and respective containers on the loading station; said loading station having means for simultaneously inserting said side-by-side plurality of ingots and respective containers into the furnace; conveying means for conveying said side-by-side plurality of ingots and respective containers from said first end of said furnace to a second end of said furnace opposite said first end; an unloading station located at the second end of the furnace; said unloading station having a limit stop for aligning said side-by-side plurality of ingots and respective containers; a die casting machine comprising an injection chamber for receiving the preheated ingots one at a time and a mold having at least two half molds movable in relation to each other; a second robotic handling device operatively associated with said unloading station, said die casting machine and a rejection bin; whereby said second robotic handling device removes said side-by-side plurality of ingots and respective containers located on said unloading station one ingot and respective container at a time and selectively transfers said one ingot of said side-by-side plurality from said respective container to the injection chamber of the die casting machine when the one ingot is within an acceptable temperature range and to said rejection bin when the one ingot is not within said acceptable temperature range; and a thermocouple which is immersed in the one ingot of said side-by-side plurality during transfer by the second robotic handling device whereby the temperature of the one ingot is determined prior to completion of the transfer of the one ingot. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said half molds further comprise independent preheating means for maintaining the half molds above ambient temperature when the metal alloy is injected into the half molds. 9. The system of claim 7 further comprising: a suction pump which forms a vacuum inside said half molds prior to injection of the metal alloy into the half molds; and a third robotic handling device which lubricates the half molds and removes finished components from the half molds. 10. The system of claim 7 wherein said conveying means comprises: a first and second powered roller conveyor; said first and second roller conveyors being activated independently; and guide means for controlling transverse movement of the containers within the furnace comprising tabs which extend from the containers and engage grooves located in said first and second roller conveyors, said grooves extending in a travel direction. 11. A method of semiliquid die casting a metal alloy comprising: placing a rheocast ingot of the metal alloy in a container; preheating the metal alloy ingot to a semiliquid state in a forced-convection-heated furnace; sensing a temperature of the metal alloy ingot; withdrawing the container and the preheated metal alloy contained therein from the furnace when the metal alloy is within an acceptable temperature range, said acceptable temperature range being dependent upon the composition of the metal alloy and ranging from a minimum permissible injection temperature at which the ingot begins to be visibly incapable of maintaining its shape to a maximum permissible injection temperature at which the metal alloy has an apparent viscosity such that the metal alloy may fill a mold under laminar flow conditions; and transferring the metal alloy from the container into an injection chamber operatively connected to the mold. 