A device for indicating the alignment of a tool held by the arm of a robot includes a frame mounted at a known coordinate, an electrical switch mounted on the frame and connected to the robot, a lever having opposite first and second end portions and a central portion therebetween pivotally connected to the frame such that the first end portion normally makes contact with the switch in the absence of outside forces on the lever. The second end portion of the lever has a target bore therein for receiving the tool with a given tolerance for misalignment of the tool. If the tolerance is exceeded, the tool engages the second end portion of the lever and forcibly pivots the first end portion out of contact with the switch to indicate misalignment of the tool. The method of checking alignment with this device includes positioning the tool in an expected position of alignment with the target bore, moving the tool into the bore, and sending an electrical signal to the robot indicating whether the tool strikes the lever and pivots it out of contact with the switch.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for indicating the alignment of a tool held by an arm of a robot, comprising: a frame mounted at a known coordinate within the reach of the arm of the robot; an electrical switch mounted on the frame and connected to the robot, the switch having a contact member mounted thereon for opening and closing the switch; an elongated lever having top and bottom surfaces, opposite sides, opposite first and second end portions and a central portion therebetween pivotally connected to the frame such that the first end portion normally makes contact with the contact member of the switch in the absence of outside forces on the lever; the second end portion of the lever having a target bore therein for receiving the tool held by the arm of the robot with a given tolerance for misalignment of the tool with respect to the bore; whereby when the given tolerance is exceeded the tool engages the second end portion of the lever and forcibly pivots the first end portion out of contact with the contact member, thereby opening the switch to indicate misalignment of the tool with respect to the target bore. 2. A device according to claim 1 wherein the frame is comprised of a prismatic housing having a plurality of side walls and one of the side walls has an aperture therein for receiving and pivotally mounting the lever. 3. A device according to claim 2 wherein the lever has a mounting hole therein for receiving a pivot pin mounted on the housing for pivotally mounting the lever in the aperture. 4. A device according to claim 3 wherein the target bore is perpendicular to the mounting hole in the lever. 5. A device according to claim 1 wherein the first and second end portions pivot about a horizontal axis defined by the pivotal connection with to the frame. 6. A device according to claim 1 wherein the robot has a stationary potion and the frame is mounted on the stationary portion. 7. A device according to claim 1 wherein the frame is mounted on a welding fixture located adjacent to the robot. 8. A device according to claim 1 wherein the lever has a center of gravity aligned with the pivotal connection of the lever to the frame. 9. A device according to claim 1 wherein the contact member comprises a depressible arm extending from the switch. 10. A device according to claim 1 wherein the tool attached to the arm of the robot is an electrode for arc welding. 11. A device according to claim 1 wherein the target bore has a circular cross-section. 12. A device according to claim 1 wherein the target bore extends completely through the lever. 13. A device according to claim 1 wherein the lever is a thin rectangular plate having a width and a thickness less than one-fourth the width and a low mass moment of inertia with respect to the pivotal connection with the frame such that the lever pivots to break contact with the contact member when the tool strikes the second end portion of the lever without bending the tool. 14. In combination, a robot having a base portion and a positionable arm extending therefrom and a tool held by the arm, and an inspection device for verifying the alignment of the tool with respect to the base portion, comprising: a frame mounted a known coordinate within the reach of the arm of the robot; an electrical switch mounted on the frame and connected electrically to the robot, the switch having a contact member mounted thereon for opening and closing the switch; an elongated lever having top and bottom surfaces, opposite sides, and opposite first and second end portions and a central portion therebetween pivotally connected to the frame, the lever being balanced about the pivotal connection such that the first end portion normally makes contact with the contact member of the switch in the absence of outside forces on the lever and breaks contact with the contact member if sufficient outside forces are applied to the lever; and the second end portion of the lever having a target bore therein for receiving the tool held by the arm of the robot with a given tolerance for misalignment of the tool with respect to the bore; whereby when the given tolerance is exceeded the tool engages the second end portion of the lever and forcibly pivots the first end portion out of contact with the contact member and thereby opening the switch to indicate misalignment of the tool with respect to the target bore and the robot. 15. A method of checking the alignment of a tool held by a positionable arm of a robot, the method comprising: providing a gauge in a known location with respect to the robot, the gauge having a frame with an elongated lever having first and second ends and being pivotally mounted to the frame between the ends, the second end having a target bore therein for receiving the tool with a given tolerance, in the absence of outside forces the first end rests in contact with a switch mounted on the frame and having a contact member thereon; positioning the arm of the robot so that the tool is theoretically aligned with the target bore in the gauge; moving the arm so that the tool should extend a predetermined depth into the target bore; sending a signal to the robot indicative of whether the tool has struck the first end of the lever with sufficient force to pivot the second end out of contact with the contact member of the switch; if the contact between the lever and the switch has been broken, then halting the movement of the arm of the robot and alerting to an operator to investigate and correct the misalignment situation; if the lever remains in contact with the switch, then withdrawing the tool from the target bore; and continuing to perform work tasks with the tool. 