A two-axis Cartesian robot is described comprising a first horizontally disposed support having a first carriage selectively movably mounted thereon. A second support is operatively secured to the first carriage and extends perpendicularly with respect to the longitudinal axis of the first support. A belt pulley is rotated by a reversible drive motor and is operatively connected to the upper and lower ends of the second support by a pulley arrangement. A horizontal brake is provided to control the movement of the carriage with respect to the first support. A vertical brake is provided to control the movement of the second support with respect to the carriage. A workpiece handling member is mounted on the lower end of the second support for manipulating the workpiece being handled.
Claims I claim: 1. A two-axis Cartesian robot, comprising: a first elongated and horizontally disposed support means having first and second ends; said first support means having a first belt pulley rotatably mounted thereon adjacent its said first end; said first support means having a first idler pulley mounted thereon adjacent said second end thereof; a first carriage longitudinally horizontally movably mounted on said first support means; said first carriage having second and third idler pulleys rotatably mounted thereon; a first brake means mounted on said first carriage for selectively preventing longitudinal movement of said first carriage with respect to said first support means; a second elongated and vertically disposed support means operatively vertically movably mounted on said first carriage and having its longitudinal axis disposed in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of said first support means; said second support means having upper and lower ends; a second brake means interconnecting said first carriage and said second support means for selectively preventing the movement of said second support means with respect to said first carriage; a reversible drive motor mounted on said first support means adjacent the said first end thereof and being operatively connected to said first belt pulley; an elongated flexible belt means for selectively moving said first carriage with respect to said first support means and for vertically moving said second support means with respect to said first carriage; said belt means extending upwardly from a fixed connection adjacent said lower end of said second support means, thence around said second idler pulley, thence towards said first end of said first support means, thence around said belt pulley, thence towards said second end of said first support means, thence beneath and around said first idler pulley, thence beneath said third idler pulley, thence upwardly to a fixed connection adjacent the upper end of said second support means; a first workpiece handling apparatus operatively secured to said second support means; and control means for controlling the operation of said drive motor means, said first brake means and said second brake means. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein said first brake means comprises a horizontal brake and said second brake means comprises a vertical brake. 3. The robot of claim 1 wherein said first workpiece handling apparatus is operatively secured to the lower end of said second support means. 4. The robot of claim 1 wherein a fourth idler pulley is rotatably mounted on said first support means between first belt pulley and said first carriage and wherein said belt means extends beneath said fourth idler pulley. 5. The robot of claim 4 wherein a fifth idler pulley is rotatably mounted on said first support means between said first idler pulley and said first carriage and wherein said belt means extends beneath said fifth idler pulley. 6. The robot of claim 1 wherein an elongated, vertically disposed rod is secured to and extends between said upper and lower ends of said second support means and wherein said second brake means is in selective braking engagement with said vertically disposed rod. 7. The robot of claim 6 wherein an elongated, horizontally disposed rod is secured to and extends between said first and second ends of said first support means and wherein said first brake means is in selective braking engagement with said horizontally disposed rod. 