An method and apparatus for automatically forming a plurality of needle-suture assemblies out of a plurality of unsorted needles and an indefinite length strand of suture material, and, automatically positioning them within a package tray, comprises a first machine located at a first location for sorting a plurality of randomly oriented needles and orienting each needle for automatic handling at a first predetermined location, a second machine located at a second predetermined location for automatically drawing and cutting an indefinite length strand of suture material and automatically inserting a free end thereof into a suture receiving opening of the needle, and swaging the needle about the sutures to form a needle suture assembly, and a first indexing device for sequentially receiving individual oriented needles at the first location and transporting each of the needles from the first location to the second location to form the needle-suture assemblies. A second indexing device is provided for registering an empty package tray at a third location for sequentially receiving one or more of the needle-suture assemblies from the first indexing device. A control system computer enables the first indexing device to sequentially transport the needle-suture assemblies from the second location to the third location, and enables the sequential insertion of the needle-suture assemblies to the package tray while registered at the third location.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An electronic control system for automatically swaging a suture receiving end of a sequential plurality of surgical needles about one of a plurality of associated sutures to form a swage bond therebetween, said system comprising: (a) memory means for storing a low failure threshold value and a high failure threshold value; (b) adjustable swaging means for swaging a suture receiving end of one of a sequential plurality of surgical needles about one of a plurality of sutures associated therewith, said means responsive to a first signal to increase swage deformation and responsive to a second signal to decrease swage deformation; (c) means for destructively pull-testing each nth needle in said sequential plurality to obtain an nth sample failure value for the swage bond; and (d) comparator means for comparing each nth sample failure value with said low failure threshold value, and incrementally generating said first signal to incrementally increase swage deformation for subsequent needles in said sequential plurality, until an nth sample failure value is higher than said low failure threshold value. 2. An electronic control system for automatically swaging surgical needles as claimed in claim 1, wherein said comparator means also compares said nth sample failure value with said high failure threshold value and incrementally generates said second signal to incrementally decrease swage deformation in subsequent needles in response thereto. 3. An electronic control system for automatically swaging surgical needles as claimed in claim 2, wherein said adjustable swaging means includes first and second swaging dies, said first swaging die being adjustably fixed in position, said adjustable swaging means including drive means for moving said second movable swage die means toward said first fixed swaging die to swage said needle gripped therebetween. 4. The automated system as claimed in claim 3 wherein said drive means includes a swage air cylinder for supplying air pressure to move said second movable swaging die toward said first fixed swaging die to swage said needle gripped therebetween. 5. The automated system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said swaging means further includes means responsive to said first and second signals for adjusting the position of said first fixed swaging die to adjust the amount of swage die travel applied to said surgical needles. 6. The automated system as claimed in claim 5 wherein said first fixed swaging die includes a wedge follower located at one end thereof, said means for changing the position of said first fixed swaging die means including a wedge assembly positioned to move transverse to said wedge follower to laterally move said wedge follower and said first swaging die in accordance with transverse movement of said wedge assembly. 7. The automated system as claimed in claim 6 wherein said swaging means further includes a servomotor means for precisely controlling transverse movement of said wedge assembly, said servomotor means for rotating a swage adjust screw of a predetermined pitch, said rotation of said swage adjust screw being translated into linear motion of said wedge assembly. 8. The automated system as claimed in claim 7 wherein said servomotor means is responsive to said first and second signals to enable controlled rotation of said swage adjust screw and proper positioning of said first swaging die. 