In a printhead assembly, an ink jet printhead is fixed to the wall of an ink supply manifold. The printhead has an ink inlet in communication with a plurality of nozzles, and the manifold contains liquid ink which flows to the printhead inlet through an outlet in the manifold wall. A preformed hot melt adhesive member with a slot therein is positioned between the manifold wall and the printhead with the slot of the adhesive member surrounding the manifold outlet and printhead inlet, so that when the adhesive member is heated and cooled a hermetic seal is formed.
Claims We claim: 1. A printhead assembly for an ink jet printer, comprising: an ink manifold having a supply of liquid ink and a wall with internal and external surfaces and an outlet therethrough, the internal wall surface being in communication with the ink; a printhead having nozzles and a surface with an ink inlet, the nozzles and inlet being in communication with each other, and the printhead being fixedly attached to the external surface of the manifold with the inlet confronting the manifold outlet; a preformed adhesive member having a predetermined thickness and shape and having a slot therethrough, the adhesive member being positioned between the printhead surface with the inlet and the manifold external surface, the slot of the adhesive being aligned with the printhead inlet, the adhesive member being a hot melt adhesive which is not soluble in any constituent of the ink, the adhesive member being tackified at a first temperature above ambient temperature and flowable at a second temperature above said first temperature and having a high contact angle with the manifold external surface and printhead surface the flowable adhesive member contacting both the manifold external surface and the printhead surface, the high contact angle preventing the adhesive member from flowing beyond the the manifold external surface and the printhead surface which said adhesive member contacts, so that the adhesive member surrounds and seals the manifold outlet with the printhead inlet, but does not flow into the printhead inlet; and means for maintaining a spacing between the manifold wall and the printhead surface with the inlet, so that relative movement cannot occur therebetween when the hot melt adhesive flows at said second temperature, thereby controlling the spacing between the the manifold external surface and the printhead surface to be sealed by said adhesive member. 2. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein the manifold external surface has a recess connected to the manifold outlet. 3. The printhead assembly of claim 2, wherein the first temperature of the hot melt adhesive, whereat the hot melt adhesive becomes tackified, is at about 95.degree. C. to 105.degree. C. to tack the hot melt adhesive to surfaces in contact therewith; wherein the second temperatures of the hot melt adhesive, whereat the hot melt adhesive flows is about 180.degree. C. to 200.degree. C., and fully rehardens at about ambient temperature; and wherein the adhesive member has a thickness of 4 to 10 mils prior to tacking and flowing. 4. The printhead assembly of claim 3, wherein the printhead assembly further comprises: a heat sink on which the printhead is fixedly attached; a printed wire board mounted on the heat sink adjacent the printhead, the printhead and printed wire board being electrically connected by wire bonds; and a passivation layer being formed over the wire bonds in a predetermined shape and having a surface substantially coplanar with the printhead surface. 5. The printhead assembly of claim 4, wherein the adhesive member slot is similar in shape to the printhead inlet and has a geometric shape large enough to cover both the printhead surface and the passivation layer surface. 6. The printhead assembly of claim 4, wherein the adhesive member slot is similar in shape to the recess in the external surface of the manifold wall and has a geometric shape large enough to cover both the printhead surface and the passivation layer surface. 7. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein said printhead is a full width printhead array assembled from a plurality of printhead subunits, with each subunit having at least one inlet; wherein said manifold has an outlet for each printhead subunit; and wherein one adhesive member is provided for each printhead inlet. 8. The printhead assembly of claim 7, wherein said adhesive members are integrally formed in a strip of adhesive material having a length substantially equal to the full width printhead array. 