A vehicle position determination system and method provide accurate vehicle positioning using a global positioning system. Spatial bias techniques are used to improve positioning accuracy while the vehicle is in the midst of a relatively linear path and is not approaching a drastically nonlinear path. The use of spatial bias techniques is suspended while the vehicle is approaching or in a drastically nonlinear path.
Claims The following is claimed: 1. A method for implementing spatial bias techniques in a system that determines the position of a vehicle, comprising the steps of: (1) receiving navigation signals from a terrestrial positioning system; (2) computing position estimates of the vehicle using spatial bias techniques and said navigation signals; (3) if the vehicle approaches a drastic nonlinear path, then ceasing use of said spatial bias techniques; and (4) computing said position estimates without said spatial bias techniques until the vehicle approaches a relatively linear path. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said step (1) of using spatial bias techniques comprises: using an original bias technique to compute a position estimate for the vehicle. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said step (1) of using spatial bias techniques comprises: using a parabolic bias technique to compute a position estimate for the vehicle. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said step (1) of using spatial bias techniques comprises: using a base residual bias technique to compute a position estimate for the vehicle. 5. A method for determining the position of a vehicle at or near the surface of the Earth using navigation signals received from a terrestrial positioning system, comprising the steps of: (1) receiving the navigation signals at a reference receiver at a known position; (2) processing the navigation signals to determine a spatial bias; and (3) computing the position of the vehicle using said spatial bias only when the vehicle is in the midst of a relatively linear path and is not approaching a drastically nonlinear path. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said step (2) of processing the navigation signals comprises: subtracting estimated pseudoranges and a clock bias from actual pseudoranges to compute an original bias. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said step (2) of processing the navigation signals comprises: subtracting an associated value on a parabolic model and a clock bias from actual pseudoranges to compute a parabolic bias, said parabolic model constructed over a time period from prior actual pseudoranges, said clock bias being a difference in clock rates between said reference receiver and the terrestrial positioning system. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein said step (2) of processing the navigation signals comprises: computing an estimated position of said reference receiver; computing a difference between said estimated position and said known position of said reference receiver to yield a base residual bias. 9. A system for determining the position of a vehicle at or near the surface of the Earth using navigation signals received from a terrestrial positioning system, comprising: a reference receiver, located at a known position, for receiving the navigation signals; bias means for computing a spatial bias from said known position and the navigation signals received by said reference receiver; and a vehicle-based receiver for receiving the navigation signals and computing the position of the vehicle using said spatial bias only when the vehicle is in the midst of a relatively linear path and is not approaching a drastically nonlinear path. 10. The system of claim 9, further comprising: means for communicating said spatial bias from said reference receiver to said vehicle-based receiver. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein said bias means comprises: means for subtracting estimated pseudoranges and a clock bias from actual pseudoranges to compute an original bias. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein said bias means comprises: means for subtracting an associated value on a parabolic model and a clock bias from actual pseudoranges to compute a parabolic bias, said parabolic model constructed over a time period from prior actual pseudoranges, said clock bias being a difference in clock rates between said reference receiver and the terrestrial positioning system. 13. The system of claim 9, further comprising: means for computing an estimated position of said reference receiver, and wherein said bias means comprises means for computing a difference between said estimated position and said known position of said reference receiver to yield a base residual bias. 14. A method for determining the position of an autonomous mining vehicle in an open pit mine using navigation signals from a terrestrial positioning system: (1) receiving the navigation signals at a base station located in or near the open pit mine; (2) processing the navigation signals received at said base station to determine a spatial bias; (3) communicating said spatial bias to the vehicle; (4) receiving the navigation signals and said spatial bias at the vehicle; (5) computing the position of the vehicle from the navigation signals and said spatial bias when the vehicle is in the midst of a relatively linear path and is not approaching a drastically nonlinear path; and (6) computing the position of the vehicle from the navigation signals without said spatial bias when the vehicle is approaching a drastically nonlinear path and when the vehicle is in a drastically nonlinear path. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said step (2) of processing the navigation signals comprises: subtracting an estimated pseudorange and a clock bias from an actual pseudorange to compute an original bias. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein said step (2) of processing the navigation signals comprises: subtracting an associated value on a parabolic model and a clock bias from an actual pseudorange to compute a parabolic bias, said parabolic model constructed over a time period from prior actual pseudoranges, said clock bias being a difference in clock rates between said base station and the terrestrial positioning system. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein said step (2) of processing said navigation signals comprises: computing an estimated position of said base station; computing a difference between said estimated position and said known position of said base station to yield a base residual bias. 