An automated cartridge system optimizes the time it takes to execute a series of cartridge requests. After cartridge requests are received, the library controller calculates the approximate time it will take to execute each possible sequence of pending cartridge requests. The library controller then executes the first request in the sequence of pending requests which will take the shortest elapsed time. This series of calculations and executions continues until all requests are completed. It is another object of the present invention to carry out the motion optimization in such a manner that assures that a particular cartridge request is not put off indefinitely. Each time a hand or arm is allocated to a request, all other requests waiting for these mechanisms have their calculated execution times reduced to increase the likelihood of execution.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for transferring objects between locations in a multi-dimensional storage array in response to n pending requests to transfer objects, where n.gtoreq.2, comprising: a robot for transferring said objects between locations in said storage array; and a library controller having: means for controlling said robot in response to the pending requests to transfer objects; and means for determining the shortest possible time to execute m pending requests, where 2.ltoreq.m.ltoreq.n, by considering the time to execute differently ordered sequences of the m pending requests. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the determining means includes: means for ordering different sequences for executing m requests to transfer objects between locations; means for computing the time to execute different sequences of m requests; and means for selecting for execution a first request in the sequence of m requests having the shortest execution time. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for moving said robot to execute the requests. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the determining means includes: means for determining different sequences for executing m requests to transfer objects between locations; means for computing the time to execute different sequences of m requests to transfer objects between locations; and means for selecting for execution a first request in the sequence of m requests to transfer having the shortest execution time. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the determining means includes means for calculating the time to execute a request to transfer an object. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, the determining means further including means for reducing the calculated time to execute a request to transfer an object to increase the likelihood of its execution. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the determining means includes means for executing a procedure for selecting the shortest possible time to execute m requests to transfer objects. 8. A method of transferring objects between locations in a multi-dimensional storage array with robotic means comprising the steps of: controlling said robot means in response to n pending requests to transfer objects between locations in the array, where n.gtoreq.2; and determining the shortest possible time to execute m pending requests, where 2.ltoreq.m.ltoreq.n, by considering the time to execute differently ordered sequences of the m pending requests. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the requests are assigned a priority and the m pending requests are those requests having a priority greater than or equal a predetermined threshold priority. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of moving said robotic means to execute the requests. 11. The method of claim 8, the step of determining the shortest possible time comprising the steps of: determining different sequences for executing m requests to transfer objects between locations; computing the time to execute different sequences of m requests to transfer objects between locations; and selecting for execution a first request in the sequence of m requests having the shortest execution time. 12. The method of claim 8, the step of determining the shortest possible time comprising the step of calculating the time to execute a request to transfer an object. 13. The method of claim 12, the step of determining the shortest possible time further comprising the step of reducing the calculated time to execute a request to transfer an object to increase the likelihood of its execution. 14. The method of claim 8, the step of determining the shortest possible time comprising the step of executing a procedure for selecting the shortest possible time to execute m requests to transfer objects. 15. An apparatus for transferring objects between locations in a multi-dimensional storage array in response to n pending requests to transfer objects, where n.gtoreq.2, comprising: a robot for transferring said objects between locations in said storage array; and a library controller having: means for controlling said robot in response to the pending requests to transfer objects; and means for determining a shortest sequence to execute m pending requests, where 2.ltoreq.m.ltoreq.n by considering differently ordered sequences of pending requests. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the requests are assigned a priority and the m requests are those requests having a priority greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold priority. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising means for moving said robot to execute the first request in the shortest sequence. 18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the determining means includes: means for ordering different sequences of m requests; means for computing the time to execute the different sequences of m requests; and means for selecting for execution a first request in the shortest sequence. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the determining means includes means for calculating the time to execute a request to transfer an object. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, the determining means further including means for reducing the calculated time to execute a request to transfer an object to increase the likelihood of its execution. 21. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the determining means includes means for executing a procedure for selecting the shortest sequence to execute m requests to transfer objects, the procedure comprising the steps of: calculating the time to execute a first request to transfer an object; and recursively calling the procedure for selecting the shortest sequence where the procedure is passed the requests less the first request. 22. A method of transferring objects between locations in a multi-dimensional storage array with robotic means comprising the steps of: controlling said robot means in response to n pending requests to transfer objects between locations in the array, where n.gtoreq.2; and determining a shortest sequence to execute m pending requests, where 2.ltoreq.m.ltoreq.n by considering differently ordered sequences of pending requests. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the requests are assigned a priority and the m pending requests are only those requests having a priority greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold priority. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of moving said robotic means to execute the first request in the shortest sequence. 25. The method of claim 22, the step of determining the shortest sequence comprising the steps of: ordering different sequences of m requests; computing the time to execute the different sequences of m requests; and selecting for execution a first request in the shortest sequence. 26. The method of claim 22, the step of determining the shortest sequence comprising the step of calculating the time to execute a request to transfer an object. 27. The method of claim 26, the step of determining the shortest sequence further comprising the step of reducing the calculated time to execute a request to transfer an object to increase the likelihood of its execution. 28. The method of claim 22, the step of determining the shortest sequence comprising the step of executing a procedure for selecting the shortest sequence to execute m requests to transfer objects, the procedure comprising the steps of: calculating the time to execute a first request to transfer an object; and recursively calling the procedure for selecting the shortest sequence where the procedure is passed the requests less the first request. 