An automatic disc handling system and method for retrieving and positioning information carrying discs between a storage position to a position of use is described. A displaceable robot having a pair of robotic arms is controlled by a computer connected to a robot controller and instructed to move to discrete positions, either in front of storage racks where a plurality of superposed sliding trays containing one or more discs are stored, or to a plurality of playback units disposed at a position of use to move selected ones of the disc to and from these positions as requested by a person accessing the discs from a remote station. The robot is provided with a tray engaging element to move the tray in and out of its storage position, and the robotic arms of the robot are each provided with a picker mechanism to engage and remove the discs from the trays or the playback units and transport them to effect a function as dictated by the computer and the robot controller. The robotic arms are also adapted to invert the disc for access to information recorded on both sides of the disc.
Claims We claim: 1. An automatic disc handling system for retrieving and positioning information carrying discs between a storage means to a position of use where there is provided one or more disc information retrieving devices operated by end user command, said system comprising pivotable robot means having a pair of robotic arms, each of said arms having actuable engaging means for engaging and disengaging one of said discs, said storage means having a plurality of superposed sliding trays containing one or more disc retaining cavities on a top surface thereof, said sliding trays having engageable means for the displacement of said trays from said storage means to a retracted loading or unloading position, said robot means having tray engaging means for engaging said engageable means of a selected one of said trays to displace the same from said storage means to said loading or unloading position and back to said storage means, a control means to cause said robot means to move to a selected position and cause one of said robotic arms to engage a selected one of said discs at a selected location at said storage means or position of use and to effect a specific work function, said pair of robotic arms being individually controllable pivotal arms, said arms each having a picker mechanism at a free end thereof, said picker mechanism engaging a disc for displacement and release of said disc at a desired location, said pair of robotic arms being pivotally connected to said pivotable robot means for simultaneous movement about a respective pivot connection, said control means controlling the pivoting of said arms to cause said disc engaged by said mechanism of one of said arms to be transferred to said picker mechanism of the other arm to invert said disc. 2. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said information carrying discs are laser discs, said one or more disc information retrieving devices being comprised by one or more of laser disc playback units in a selected one of which said selected disc is positioned, and wherein there is further provided user control means to access selected ones of said discs, and monitor means to receive information recorded on said selected one of said discs. 3. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said laser discs and are video laser discs, said laser disc playback units being video laser disc playback units. 4. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 3, wherein said position of use is a remote position of use connected to said control means through a modem. 5. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said laser discs are video laser discs, said laser disc playback units being video laser disc playback units, said monitor means comprising a speaker system. 6. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 2, wherein said control means is a computer control means responsive to said user control means, said user control means identifying said selected one of said discs and feeding demand signals to said computer control means representative of said selected one of said discs, said computer control means locating said selected one of said discs from a memory bank and transmitting command signals to said control means connected to said robot means to position said selected one of said discs in a computer selected one of said playback units for control by said user control means. 7. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said storage means has a frame supporting said superposed sliding trays in a close parallel stacked relationship and disposed along an arc of a fixed central pivot axis of said robot means, said engageable means being an engageable aperture formed in a front edge of each of said sliding trays, said tray engaging means being a finger element which is caused to enter and engage said engageable aperture and to displace said tray to and from said storage means or said loading or unloading position. 8. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 7, wherein said engageable aperture has an undercut groove to one side thereof to define an engageable lip on a right or left side of said aperture, said sliding trays being positioned with said lip in alternating sequence to provide greater tolerance between adjacent right or left sided engageable lips and to provide very close spacing of said trays. 9. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said finger element is a T-shaped finger element having opposed engaging arms at a free end thereof for engaging one of said right or left lips, and optical sensing means associated with said finger element to align with said engageable aperture. 10. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 7 wherein said engageable aperture is a hole formed in a flat horizontal tab protruding from a front edge of said trays, said tabs of adjacent trays being vertically offset from one another. 11. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 10 wherein said finger element is an L-shaped tray engaging rod defining a right angled engaging end for engagement in said hole of a tab of a selected tray. 12. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 7, wherein said trays are rectangular trays having two or more of said disc retaining cavities on said top surface thereof. 13. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 7, wherein there is provided a plurality of said frame on opposed sides of a plurality of said disc information retrieving devices. 14. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 13, wherein said robot means is disposed on a central pivot axis, said plurality of frames and said disc information retrieving devices being disposed on a diametrical arc of said pivot axis to minimize work function time of said robot means. 15. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of said picker mechanisms is an air-operated mechanism controlled by said control means. 16. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of said picker mechanisms comprises fixed disc abutment means and articulated disc aperture engaging fingers, said engaging fingers being displaced from a retracted position to an expanded disc engaging position, said engaging fingers being secured to axially displaceable actuating support means. 17. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 16, wherein said disc abutment means is comprised by at least two abutment members spaced apart to abut a respective outer surface portion of a disc to be engaged and on a respective side of a circular disc engaging aperture formed at a center of said disc. 18. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 16, wherein there are two or more of said engaging fingers spaced from one another, said fingers being pivotally secured to said axially displaceable support means and extending in closely-spaced alignment when in said retracted position, each of said fingers having a hook end, said fingers when in said disc engaging position, extending over an edge portion of said disc on a surface opposite a disc surface abutted by said disc abutment means, said hook end of said fingers urging said disc in clamping position between said hook ends and said abutment means when said axially displaceable support means is axially retracted. 19. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 18, wherein said axially displaceable support means is a piston actuated carriage secured to guide means, and an actuable pivoting mechanism secured to said carriage to cause said fingers to pivot between said disc engaging position and said retracted position. 20. An automatic disc handling system as claimed in claim 19, wherein there are three of said abutment means and three of said engaging fingers equidistantly spaced along a respective concentric circumferential axis, said fingers being spaced along an inner circumferential axis. 21. A method of automatically retrieving and positioning information carrying discs between a storage position where said discs are stored on a plurality of horizontally disposed sliding trays stacked in vertical columns to a position of use in a disc playback unit, said method comprising the steps of: i) identifying a disc to be retrieved and to be positioned in said playback unit, ii) displacing a robot having a pair of pivoting robotic arms to a position where said disc identified is located, each robotic arm having a picker mechanism at a free end thereof, iii) causing said disc to be positioned to a retrievable position, iv) displacing one of said robotic arms of said robot to a disc engaging position to align the picker mechanism of the displaced robotic arm above said disc, v) causing said picker mechanism of the displaced robotic arm to engage said disc, vi) moving said robot to said playback unit, vii) simultaneously pivoting said arms about a common central pivot axis to cause said disc engaged by said one of said picker mechanism of the displaced robotic arm to be transferred to said picker mechanism of the other arm to invert said disc, and viii) releasing said disc on a support base of said playback unit. 22. A method as claimed in claim 21, wherein said step (iii) comprises: a) positioning a tray engaging means of said robot in an engageable aperture formed in a front end of an identified tray having said disc identified to be retrieved, b) engaging said tray engaging means with said engageable aperture, and c) retracting said tray engaging means and said tray from a storage position to said retrievable position. 23. A method as claimed in claim 22, wherein after step (iv) there is further provided the steps of: a) positioning disc aperture engaging fingers through a disc aperture of a disc to be retrieved, actuating said aperture engaging fingers to move from a retracted position to an expanded disc engaging position, c) retracting said engaging fingers to displace said disc, in clamping engagement between said fingers and abutment means on a top surface of said disc adjacent said disc aperture, d) displacing said robotic arm away from said retrievable position, e) pushing said tray back to said storage position. 24. A method as claimed in claim 22, wherein said step (vii) comprises: a) pivoting said robotic arms with aperture engaging fingers of one arm having said identified disc secured thereby so that said engaging fingers of said pair of arms are aligned about a common axis extending through the center of a disc aperture and abutment means of both arms contact a respective side of said disc, b) moving said engaging fingers of said other arm in a retracted position to enter through said disc aperture, c) actuating said engaging fingers of said other arm to move to an expanded disc engaging position, d) actuating said engaging fingers of said one arm to move to a retracted position, and e) pivoting said robotic arms back to their original position prior to step (a). 25. A method as claimed in claim 21, wherein said step (i) comprises: a) identifying said disc to be retrieved, b) feeding demand signals to a computer control means, and c) identifying the location of said disc in a specific one of said sliding trays. 