A two-degree-of-freedom spherical shoulder joint for a robot. The joint consists of a spherical ball member with gear teeth formed in its outer surface and three drive gears that mate with the gear teeth in the outer surface of the spherical member. The joint can rotate about any axis of rotation which lies within a plane defined by the contact points between the drive gears and the spherical member. By controlling the three drive gears to rotate by the proper amounts, the joint can be rotated about the desired axis of rotation. The inverse kinematics for controlling the joint are described.
Claims We claim: 1. A spherical joint comprising: a generally spherical member having a geometric center and an outer surface three drive means, each of which contacts said outer surface at a respective contact point, wherein said contact points and said geometric center are located within and define a plane, and wherein said drive means impart movement to said outer surface, whereby said spherical member is capable of being rotated about any axis of rotation which lies within said plane. 2. A spherical joint comprising: a generally spherical member having a geometric center and an outer surface, said outer surface being formed with gear teeth therein, a plurality of drive gears, each of which mates with said gear teeth in said outer surface at a respective contact point, wherein said contact points and said geometric center are located within and define a plane, and wherein said drive means impart movement to said outer surface, whereby said spherical member is capable of being rotated about any axis of rotation which lies within said plane. 3. A spherical joint comprising: a generally spherical member having a geometric center and an outer surface, said outer surface being formed with gear teeth therein, three drive means, each of which comprises a drive gear that mates with said gear teeth in said outer surface and which impart movement to said outer surface, whereby said spherical member is capable of being rotated about an infinite number of axes which pass through said geometric center. 4. The spherical joint of claim 3 wherein said plurality of drive means are in contact with said outer surface at a plurality of contact points, wherein said contact points and said geometric center are located within and define a plane, and wherein said spherical member is capable of being rotated about any axis of rotation which lies within said plane. 5. The spherical joint of claim 4 wherein said plurality of drive means consists of exactly three drive means. 6. The spherical joint of claim 5 further comprising control means to move each of said drive means through a predetermined displacement whereby said spherical member is rotated about a predetermined axis of rotation. 7. The spherical joint of claim 3 further comprising control means to move each of said drive means through a predetermined displacement whereby said spherical member is rotated about a predetermined axis of rotation. 8. The spherical joint of claim 3 wherein said spherical member has a longitudinal axis and said gear teeth are concentric with said longitudinal axis and extend completely around the periphery of said spherical member. 9. The spherical joint of claim 3 further comprising a plurality of drive motors each connected to a respective one of said drive gears. 10. The spherical joint of claim 9 wherein each of said drive motors is connected to a respective one of said drive gears via a speed reducing gear. 11. The spherical joint of claim 10 wherein said speed reduction gears are spur gears. 12. The spherical joint of claim 10 wherein said speed reduction gears are worm gears. 13. The spherical joint of claim 3 wherein each of said drive gears is rotatably mounted such that the gear teeth on said drive gear remain aligned with said gear teeth in said outer surface when said spherical member is rotated. 14. The spherical joint of claim 13 wherein each of said drive gears is rotatably mounted for rotation about an axis which passes through said geometric center of said spherical member and through the drive gear. 15. The spherical joint of claim 4 wherein said outer surface is formed with gear teeth therein and said drive means comprise drive gears which mate with said gear teeth in said outer surface. 16. The spherical joint of claim 15 wherein said spherical member has a longitudinal axis and said gear teeth are concentric with said longitudinal axis and extend completely around the periphery of said spherical member. 17. The spherical joint of claim 15 wherein each of said drive gears is rotatably mounted such that the gear teeth on said drive gear remains aligned with said gear teeth in said outer surface when said spherical member is rotated. 18. The spherical joint of claim 17 wherein each of said drive gears is rotatably mounted for rotation about an axis which passes through said geometric center of said spherical member and through the drive gear. 19. A robotic joint comprising: a driven member which is rotated about an arbitrary axis of rotation n within an X-Y plane, said axis of rotation having X and Y components n.sub.x and n.sub.y, three driving members, and control means which rotates said driven member through an angle .theta. about said axis of rotation by rotating the three driving members through angles .theta..sub.1, .theta..sub.2, and .theta..sub.3 respectively, wherein the angles .theta..sub.1, .theta..sub.2, and .theta..sub.3 are defined by the equations: where C is a ratio of rotation in the driving members to rotation in the driven member and where .gamma. and .eta. are defined by the equations: 20. The robotic joint of claim 19 wherein said driven member is a spherical member with gear teeth formed in the outer periphery thereof and said driving members are drive gears with teeth which are in driving contact with the gear teeth in the outer periphery of said spherical member. 