A method and apparatus for fabricating a core within a core box 10 having passages and screens 12 through which an air-sand mixture may flow to occupy cavities within the core box 10 by which the core is shaped. The method comprises providing a plurality of pressure switch sensors 14 disposed upon a core replica 16, each sensor being located in communication with a screen 12 within the core box 10; positioning the replica 16 within the core box 10; monitoring a condition at one or more screens 12 to determine a state of accretion thereat and generating a signal indicative of the condition; sending the signal to a processor which is in operative communication with a means for cleaning; and activating the means for cleaning within the core box 10 in response to the signal so that flow impediments are cleared from the screens 12 and so that constrictions in fluid flow within the core box 10 are detected in their early stages of development and acceptable production rates may be maintained. The apparatus includes a replica 16 of a core to be molded within the core box 10 and a plurality of sensors 14 disposed upon the replica 16. Each sensor is located in communication with a screen 12 within the core box 10.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for fabricating a core within a core box having passages and screens through which an air-sand mixture may flow to occupy cavities within the core box by which the core is shaped, the method comprising: providing a plurality of sensors disposed upon a core replica; positioning the replica within the core box; monitoring a condition at one or more screens by the sensors disposed upon the replica to determine a state of accretion thereat and generating a signal indicative of the condition; sending the signal to a processor which is in operative communication with a means for cleaning; and activating the means for cleaning within the core box in response to the signal so that flow impediments are cleared from the screens and so that constrictions in fluid flow within the core box are detected in their early stages of development and acceptable production rates may be maintained. 2. A method for fabricating a core within a core box having passages and screens through which an air-sand mixture may flow to occupy cavities within the core box by which the core is shaped, the method comprising: beginning a core production run; stopping the production run for inspection; removing an unfinished core from the cavities in the core box; inserting a core replica into said cavities within the core box for inspecting the core box; inspecting the core box by electronic sensors disposed upon the core replica; monitoring a condition at one or more screens within the core box to observe a state of accretion of an air-sand mixture thereat; and determining whether there is an obstruction to flow. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: determining that there is little or no obstruction to flow; removing the replica from the core box; and resuming and completing the production run. 4. The method of claim 2 comprising: determining that there is an unacceptable incipient or actual reduction in flow by pressure switch sensors disposed upon the core replica; locating areas to be cleaned; deploying a means for cleaning at the areas to be cleaned; and reinspecting the detected areas. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising: determining that the result of electronic reinspection is satisfactory; and removing the core replica before resuming the production run. 6. The method of claim 4 further comprising: determining that results of the electronic reinspection are unacceptable; and locating the areas to be re-cleaned before automatically re-cleaning and re-inspecting them. 7. An apparatus for fabricating a core within a core box having passages and screens through which an air-sand mixture may flow to occupy cavities within the core box by which the core is shaped, comprising: a replica of a core to be molded within the core box; a plurality of sensors disposed upon-the replica; means for cleaning located around the core box, the means for cleaning being activated in response to a signal indicative of a state of accretion at one or more screens so that flow impediments are cleared therefrom and so that constrictions in fluid flow within the core box are detected in their early stages of development and acceptable production rates may be maintained. 