An integrated compliance electrohydraulic servovalve system connected to a load such as a simulated living being to provide more realistic movement thereto. The system includes a pressure transducer for sensing the pressure appearing at the output of the electrohydraulic servovalve and which is applied to an actuator connected to the load. The pressure as sensed is developed into a corresponding electrical signal which is used as a feed back signal to the drive motor of the electrohydraulic servovalve. The actuator position signal is also provided and is summed with the position command input signal to provide the command signal which is also summed with the pressure signal prior to application to the drive motor. The utilization of the pressure feed back signal provides compliance to the over all system resulting in a realistic movement of the simulated living being.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compliance system for use in providing a natural appearance to the movements of simulated living beings by dynamically altering the apparent stiffness of the system by providing a feedback signal which is proportional to forces applied by and to an actuator but which is completely independent of the actuator position feedback loop gain, said system comprising: an electrohydraulic servovalve including a drive motor for controlling the position of a spool valve to control the flow of fluid from a source thereof; a source of command signals coupled to said electrohydraulic servovalve for commanding at least a portion of said simulated living being to move; an actuator including a piston coupled between said electrohydraulic servovalve and said at least one portion of said simulated living being to receive said fluid from said electrohydraulic servovalve to impart said commanded motion to said being; means for continuously sensing the pressure appearing on each side of said piston and providing a first electrical feedback signal proportional thereto; and means for coupling said first electrical feedback signal to said drive motor. 2. A compliance system as defined in claim 1 which further includes means for generating a second feedback signal representative of the position of said piston; first means for summing said second feedback signal with said command signal to develop a difference signal for application to said electrohydraulic servovalve; and second means for summing, said difference signal and said first feedback signal being applied to said second summing means. 3. A compliance system as defined in claim 2 wherein said first feedback signal is proportional to the differential pressure across said piston. 4. A compliance system as defined in claim 3 wherein said electrohydraulic servovalve is a direct drive valve. 5. A compliance system as defined in claim 1 which further includes: means for providing a third electrical feedback signal representative of the position of said spool valve; means for summing said first and third electrical feedback signals to provide a resultant spool valve position feedback electrical signal; and means for applying said resultant spool valve position feedback electrical signal to said drive motor, said means for coupling said first electrical feedback signal includes said means for summing. 6. A compliance system as defined in claim 5 which further includes means for generating a second feedback signal representative of the position of said piston; first means for summing said second feedback signal with said command signal to develop a difference signal for application to said electrohydraulic servovalve; and second means for summing, said difference signal and said first feedback signal being applied to said second summing means. 7. A compliance system as defined in claim 6 wherein said first feedback signal is proportional to the differential pressure across said piston. 8. A compliance system as defined in claim 7 wherein said electrohydraulic servovalve is a direct drive valve. 