This invention is a robot control system based on a high level language implementing a spatial operator algebra. There are two high level languages included within the system. At the highest level, applications programs can be written in a robot-oriented applications language including broad operators such as MOVE and GRASP. The robot-oriented applications language statements are translated into statements in the spatial operator algebra language. Programming can also take place using the spatial operator algebra language. The statements in the spatial operator algebra language from either source are then translated into machine language statements for execution by a digital control computer. The system also includes the capability of executing the control code sequences in a simulation mode before actual execution to assure proper action at execution time. The robot's environment is checked as part of the process and dynamic reconfiguration is also possible. The languages and system allow the programming and control of multiple arms and the use of inward/outward spatial recursions in which every computational step can be related to a transformation from one point in the mechanical robot to another point to name two major advantages.
Claims Wherefore, having thus described our invention, what is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling a multi-link, multijoint robot comprising: a plurality of joint servos coupled to said robot; a plurality of joint sensors coupled to said plurality of joint servos; a processor coupled to said robot and responsive to said plurality of joint sensors for controlling said plurality of joint servos and for executing arithmetic instructions; first compiler means coupled to said processor for translating each one of a selected sequence of plural low level spatial operators to an equivalent corresponding sequence of arithmetic instructions and transmitting said sequence of arithmetic instructions to said processor, said set of said low level operators comprising: a first type of operator for performing a coordinate transformation to a frame of reference of a current robot link, a second type of operator for propagating vector quantities across at least one of said current robot link and a corresponding robot joint, a third type of operator comprising a combination of operators of said second type, a fourth type of operator for performing a recursion of plural operators of said third type across plural robot links of a robot member, a fifth type of operator including operators produced from operators of said fourth type, and a sixth type of operator for combining operators of said fifth type; and second compiler means coupled to said processor for translating each one of a set of plural high level operators to an equivalent corresponding sequence of at least some of said low level operators and transmitting said sequence of low level operators to said first compiler means as said selected sequence, said sequence of low level operators comprising: plural iterations associated with plural discrete points in time, each iteration comprising: a first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth levels comprising, respectively, low level operators of said first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth types, whereby each high level operator comprises modular assembly of ones of said low level operators. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising: robot architecture memory means for storing a plurality of high level program statements in an order which includes said set of high level operators whereby to define a particular robot architecture, and wherein said memory means transmits said statements to said second compiler means in said order. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said fifth type of operator comprises a Kalman transition operator and said sixth type of operator comprises an operator which performs a Kalman filter operation in combining said operators of said fifth type. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said Kalman filter generates a Kalman gain for each one of said multi-links, and wherein said second type of operator which propagates vector quantities across a robot joint comprises said Kalman gain of said corresponding robot joint. 5. The system of claim 3 wherein said fifth type of operator further comprises a robot joint axis projection operator and a pickoff projection operator. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein the sequence of low level operators of one of said high level operators further comprises another one of said high level operators. 7. The system of claim 5 wherein said recursion comprises one of an inward recursion beginning at a tip joint and concluding at a base joint of said robot and an outward recursion beginning at said base joint and concluding at said tip joint. 8. The system of claim 5 wherein one of said high level operators corresponds to a linearized robot dynamic model and at least one of the fifth type of operators thereof comprise partial derivatives of others of said fifth type of operators. 9. The system of claim 5 further comprising designer input means, external of said robot and connected to said second compiler means, for naming a high level operator and for selecting plural ones of said low level operators and specifying connections among the selected plural low level operators corresponding to an equivalent sequence of said low level operators to which said second compiler means translates the high level operator named by said designer input means. 10. The system of claim 5 wherein said first and second compiler means reside within said robot. 11. A system for controlling a multi-link, multijoint robot comprising: a plurality of joint servos coupled to said robot; a plurality of joint sensors coupled to said plurality of joint servos; a processor coupled to said robot and responsive to said plurality of joint sensors for controlling said plurality of joint servos and for executing arithmetic instructions; first compiler means coupled to said processor for translating each one of a selected sequence of plural low level spatial operators to a sequence of arithmetic instructions which corresponds to each one of said selected sequence of plural low level spatial operators and transmitting said sequence of arithmetic instructions to said processor, said set of said low level operators comprising: a first type of operator for performing a coordinate transformation to a frame of reference of a current robot link, a second type of operator for propagating vector quantities across at least one of said current robot link and a corresponding robot joint, a third type of operator comprising a combination of operators of said second type, a fourth type of operator for performing a recursion of plural operators of said third type across plural robot links of a robot member, a fifth type of operator including operators produced from operators of said fourth type, and a sixth type of operator for combining operators of said fifth type; second compiler means coupled to said processor for translating each one of a set of plural high level operators to a sequence of at least some of said low level operators which correspond to said high level operators and transmitting said sequence of low level operators to said first compiler means as said selected sequence, said sequence of low level operators comprising: plural iterations associated with plural discrete points in time, each iteration comprising: a first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth levels comprising, respectively, low level operators of said first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth types, whereby each high level operator comprises a modular assembly of ones of said low level operators; wherein said fifth type of operator comprises a Kalman transition operator, a robot joint axis projection operator, and a pickoff projection operator wherein said sixth type of operator comprises an operator which performs a Kalman filter operation in combining said operators of said fifth type; wherein the sequence of low level operators of one of said high level operators further comprises another one of said high level operators; and user input means external of said robot for entering said high level program statements into said robot architecture memory means. 12. A method for controlling a multi-link, multijoint robot with a processor controlling a plurality of joint servos and responsive to a plurality of joint sensors for executing arithmetic instructions, said method comprising: compiling by said processor each one of a selected sequence of plural low level spatial operators to an equivalent corresponding sequence of arithmetic instructions and transmitting said sequence of arithmetic instructions to processor, said set of said low level operators comprising: a first type of operator for performing a coordinate transformation to a frame of reference of a current robot link, a second type of operator for propagating vector quantities across at least one of said current robot link and a corresponding robot joint, a third type of operator comprising a combination of operators of said second type, a fourth type of operator for performing a recursion of plural operators of said third type across plural robot links of a robot member, a fifth type of operator including operators produced from operators of said fourth type, and a sixth type of operator for combining operators of said fifth type; translating each one of a set of plural high level operators to a corresponding sequence of at least some of said low level operators and transmitting said sequence of low level operators as said selected sequence for said compiling step, said sequence of low level operators comprising: plural iterations associated with plural discrete points in time, each iteration comprising: a first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth levels comprising, respectively, low level operators of said first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth types, whereby each high level operator comprises a modular assembly of ones of said low level operators. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising: storing a plurality of high level program statements in an order which includes selected ones of said high level operators whereby to define a particular robot architecture, and transmitting said plurality of high level program statements as said set of plural high level operators for said translating step. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein said fifth type of operator comprises a Kalman transition operator and said sixth type of operator comprises an operator which performs a Kalman filter operation in combining said operators of said fifth type. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said Kalman filter generates a Kalman gain for each one of said multi-links, and wherein said second type of operator which propagates vector quantities across a robot joint comprises said Kalman gain of said corresponding robot joint. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein said fifth type of operator further comprises a robot joint axis projection operator and a pickoff projection operator. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising naming a high level operator, selecting plural ones of said low level operators and specifying connections among the selected plural low level operators corresponding to an equivalent sequence of said low level operators to which said translating step translates the named high level operator. 18. The method of claim 12 wherein the sequence of low level operators of one of said high level operators further comprises another one of said high level operators at one of said first, second and third levels. 19. The method of claim 12 wherein said recursion comprises one of an inward recursion beginning at a tip joint and concluding at a base joint of said robot and an outward recursion beginning at said base joint and concluding at said tip joint. 20. The method of claim 12 wherein one of said high level operators corresponds to a linearized robot dynamic model and at least one of the fifth type of operators thereof comprise partial derivatives of others of said fifth type of operators. 