A force transmitting load alleviator apparatus 10 and method are provided for rotatably and pivotally driving a member to be protected against overload torsional and bending (moment) forces. The load alleviator 10 includes at least one bias spring 42 to resiliently bias cam followers 18 and cam surfaces 22 together and to maintain them in locked engagement unless a predetermined load is exceeded whereupon a center housing 12 is pivotal or rotational with respect to a crown assembly 14. This pivotal and rotational movement results in frictional dissipation of the overload force by an energy dissipator 16. The energy dissipator 16 can be provided to dissipate substantially more energy from the overload force than from the bias force that automatically resets the center housing 12 and crown assembly 14 to the normally fixed centered alignment. The torsional and bending (moment) overload levels can designed independently of each other.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A load alleviator, comprising: a crown assembly having a plurality of cam surfaces circumferentially spaced about a portion thereof, a center housing having an end portion thereof engageable with said crown assembly, said end portion having thereon a plurality of cam followers for engaging respective ones of said plurality of cam surfaces; an energy dissipator having a dissipator body and an elongate member, said elongate member being axially moveable within said dissipator body member, said energy dissipator being operable to dissipate energy as a result of relative axial movement between said dissipator body and said elongate member; first and second connectors for securing said crown assembly to said center housing, said first connector mounting said energy dissipator with respect to said crown housing, said second connector mounting said energy dissipator with respect to said center housing, said first and second connectors being operative to allow a range of angular deflection of said crown assembly relative to said center housing; and a biasing member for biasing said crown assembly relative to said center housing. 2. The load alleviator of claim 1, wherein: said energy dissipator is operable to dissipate more energy as a result of relative movement of said crown assembly away from said center housing than as a result of relative movement of said crown assembly toward said center housing. 3. The load alleviator of claim 1, wherein: said first and second connectors are operable to allow relative rotation between said crown assembly and said center housing. 4. The load alleviator of claim 1, wherein: said cam followers are comprised of substantially round rollers. 5. The load alleviator of claim 1, wherein said first connector further comprises: a pivotal member. 6. The load alleviator of claim 1, wherein said second connector further comprises: a bearing member for supporting said dissipator body, said beating member having a first surface and a second surface opposite said first surface, said first surface being substantially rounded to support said dissipator body with said angular deflection of said crown assembly relative to said center housing. 7. A load alleviator, comprising: a crown assembly having a plurality of cam surfaces circumferentially spaced about a portion thereof; a center housing relatively moveable with respect to said crown assembly and having an end portion, said end portion having thereon a plurality of cam followers; a first biasing member for biasing said crown assembly toward said center housing such that said cam followers are biased towards engagement with said cam surfaces, said cam surfaces being profiled such that relative rotation in a first direction of said center housing with respect to said crown assembly results in movement of said crown assembly away from said center housing and such that subsequent relative rotation in an opposite direction results in movement of said crown assembly toward said center housing responsively to said first biasing member; and an energy dissipator secured to said crown assembly and said center housing, said energy dissipator being operable to dissipate more energy as a result of said relative movement of said crown assembly in a direction away from said center housing than as a result of relative movement of said crown assembly in a direction toward said center housing. 8. The load alleviator of claim 2, further comprising: a flexible connector for said energy dissipator operative to allow substantial angular deflection of said crown assembly with respect to said center housing. 9. The load alleviator of claim 7, said energy dissipator having a dissipator body and an elongated dissipator member relatively moveable within said dissipator body, further comprising: a second biasing member disposed within said dissipator body operable for controlling an initial energy dissipation level as a result of said relative movement between said dissipator body and said elongate dissipator member. 10. The load alleviator of claim 7, wherein: said energy dissipator includes frictionally resistive elements. 11. The load alleviator of claim 7, further comprising: said energy dissipator includes substantially spherical elements having frictionally contactable surfaces for dissipating energy. 12. The load alleviator of claim 7, wherein: said energy dissipator is secured to a central portion of said crown assembly and to a central portion of said center housing. 13. A method for limiting torsional and bending forces to a driven member, comprising the steps of: biasing a first member toward a second member; providing a torsional force converter for converting torsional force above a predetermined level applied between said first and second members into relative axial movement of said first member with respect to said second member; providing a lateral force converter for converting lateral force above a predetermined level applied to at least one of said first and second members into pivotal movement of said first member with respect to said second member; and securing at least one of said first and second members to said driven member. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: providing an energy dissipator for absorbing a significant amount of energy associated with said relative axial and said pivotal movement. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said energy dissipator dissipates less energy during resetting than as a result of said torsional or said lateral force above said predetermined level that produce, respectively, said relatively axial and said pivotal movement. 16. The method of claim 14, further comprising: adjusting said energy dissipator to dissipate energy at a predetermined rate of dissipation. 17. The method of claim 13, further comprising: providing an energy dissipator with a shaft and a housing relatively moveable with respect to each other for dissipating energy; and connecting said shaft to said first member and said housing to said second member. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: adjusting a stroke length of a dead band for an initial movement of said shaft with respect to said housing. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein the step of providing a torsional force converter includes: providing cam surfaces on one end of said first member; and providing cam followers on a corresponding end of said second member. 20. The method of claim 13, wherein said step of biasing further comprises: constraining said first and second members into a centered alignment with respect to each other. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein said step of biasing further comprises: resetting said first and second members into said centered alignment with respect to each other after either said relative axial or pivotal movement. 22. The method of claim 13, further comprising: selecting said predetermined level for said torsional force; and selecting said predetermined level for said lateral force substantially independently of said step of setting said predetermined level for said torsional force. 