A micro-component feeder assembly supporting small, odd lot or odd shaped components and subassemblies from a sprocket driven tape carrier including seriatim, annular housings having removeable covers and component pallets. The housing walls include fastener portions which support each pallet and cover. One or more components are indexed to pallet apertures, cavities, projections or resilient restraints. Wound tape supply and take-up cartridges mount to a controlled drive housing which includes tape reel drive, tape splice, tape sprocket drive, cover removal, clamp/test and lift and locate assemblies. Full and depleted component tapes cyclically alternate between upper and lower cartridges. A multi-faceted tool head assembly is controlled to a defined pallet presentation and defined component positions at each pallet. A gripper assembly produces a uniform gripping and insertion action of each component. In a multi-feeder system, a cartridge server assembly maintains a continuous supply of full component cartridges. A robotic arm may be used to pick-and-place components to and from a tape at a supply conveyor or work station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tape feeder system comprising: a) at least one take-up cartridge and one supply cartridge and means for restraining said cartridges to a housing, wherein said at least one take-up cartridge contains a leader tape and said at least one supply cartridge contains a spooled tape carrier including a plurality of drive apertures that longitudinally extend along the tape carrier and a plurality of component storage compartments, wherein each storage compartment includes a component support pallet, a cover and means for securing the cover to the tape carrier; b) tape drive means for securing said leader tape to said tape carrier and for extracting tape from the supply cartridge and collecting the tape at the take-up cartridge; c) a removal station comprising 1) pallet retaining means for restraining the pallet of each storage compartment to a reference location and 2) cover engaging means for removing each cover at said removal station and withdrawing said cover to a location displaced from said removal station and for re-securing the cover to the storage compartment; and d) tool head means indexed to said reference location for positionally accessing one or more components supported in the storage compartment of the restrained pallet. 2. Apparatus as forth in claim 1 wherein said tape drive means comprises a drive wheel which engages a reel containing said tape carrier at at least one of said supply and take-up cartridges to rotate said reel. 3. Apparatus as forth in claim 2 including a tape having a plurality of projecting pins which mate with said drive apertures and means for driving said tape to convey said tape carrier. 4. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 including coupling means engageable with a door of each of said take-up and supply cartridges for raising and lowering said door to uncouple said door from a coupler secured to each of said leader and tape carrier. 5. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4 including means for coupling and decoupling the couplers connected to said leader and tape carrier. 6. Apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein said tape drive means includes a drive wheel which engages and rotates a reel at one of said supply and take-up cartridges and a driven tape having a plurality of projections which mate with said drive apertures, and wherein said coupling means includes means for gripping each of said couplers and for axially conveying a coupler to a mating coupler of said leader or tape carrier. 7. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said removal station includes cylinder means for conveying a gripping means for gripping a cover between said reference location and displaced location and further includes means for vertically extending and retracting said gripping means to remove and re-secure said cover. 8. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said tool head means includes: a) a support base, a driven lead screw and screw follower means for conveying said support base along said driven lead screw; b) a plurality of facets containing a plurality of tools compatible with the components stored at said tape carrier and head means for selectively rotating each facet and the tool secured thereto to a work position; and c) coupler means for coupling said head means to said support base. 9. Apparatus as set forth in claim 8 a) wherein said head means includes a housing having a rotatably mounted head from which said facets radially project, means for coupling control signals to rotate said head and means for counter-balancing rotation of said head; and b) wherein said coupler means includes an annular collar secured to said support base and at least one pivotally mounted arm to interlock with said housing c) means for coupling control signals to manipulate motion of said head and tool. 10. Apparatus as set forth in claim 8 wherein said support base includes means for vertically raising and lowering a selected tool at said work position in relation to a restrained pallet. 11. Apparatus as set forth in claim 8 wherein each of said facets is non-permanently secured to an axle of said head, wherein a radial projection extends from said axle to counterbalance the weight of said facets and tools, and including means for selectively rotating said axle and means for restraining said axle and each facet to the selected work position. 12. Apparatus as set forth in claim 8 including a plurality of gripper means coupled to said facets and wherein each gripper means comprises: a) a piston having at least one projection; and b) first and second finger bases, each finger base including a slot coupling to the piston projection; and c) means for extending and retracting the piston for translating vertical piston movement to lateral movement of said first and second finger bases. 13. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12 wherein each facet includes one of said gripper means and a tool secured to said first and second finger bases having a plurality of fingers, and wherein movement of said first and second finger bases manipulate said fingers. 14. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12 wherein said gripper means includes sensor means for controlling movement of said finger bases. 15. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12 wherein said first and second finger bases are supported on a ball bearing suspension. 16. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said pallet returning means includes a plurality of pins which mate with apertures of said pallet and further includes clamp arms which mate with said drive apertures. 17. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said removal station includes means for testing the integrity of a component restrained to the reference location. 18. Apparatus as set forth in claim 16 wherein ones of said pins are coupled to means for testing a component restrained to the reference location. 19. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 including server means having a carrier which supports said said take-up and supply cartridges and means for manipulating said carrier relative to said housing to load and unload said take-up and supply cartridges from said housing. 20. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said cover engaging means includes a plurality of fingered projections which flex the pallet and cover at each storage location to release and re-secure said covers from said tape carrier. 21. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said cartridge means comprises an enclosed housing having a plurality of side, end, top and bottom walls, wherein one of said walls mates with a slide channel at the feeder housing and another of said walls includes a door, and means for securing and biasing said door between a closed position where said door engages a coupler of said first and second cartridges and an open position. 22. A tape feeder system comprising: a) a take up cartridge and a supply cartridge and means for restraining said take-up and said supply cartridge to a housing, wherein the supply cartridge contains at least one reel containing a spooled tape carrier including a plurality of drive apertures that extend along the edges of the tape carrier and a plurality of component storage compartments, wherein each storage compartment includes a component support pallet and a cover; b) tape drive means including means for engaging said at least one reel containing said tape carrier, a drive tape having a plurality of projections and means for engaging the drive apertures to the drive tape projections for conveying the tape carrier between said supply and take-up cartridges; c) restraint means for selectively restraining one of said pallets at a predetermined reference location; d) cover engaging means for selectively removing and withdrawing one of said covers to a location displaced from said restraint means as a component of the storage compartment is accessed and for resecuring the cover to the storage compartment; and e) a tool head including a plurality of facets, a plurality of gripper means for supporting at least one tool compatible with a component stored at the pallets to each facet and means for rotating the tools into alignment with the restrained pallets, and wherein each gripper means comprises; 1) a piston having a projection; and 2) first and second finger bases, each finger base including a slot which mates with said projection for translating vertical piston movement to lateral movement of said first and second finger bases. 23. Apparatus as set forth in claim 22 wherein said first and second finger bases are supported on ball bearing suspensions. 24. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said tool head means includes a head having a plurality of facets containing a plurality of tools compatible with the components stored at said tape carrier, wherein a radial projection extends from said head to counterbalance the weight of said facets and tools, and including means for selectively rotating said head and means for restraining said head and each facet to a selected work position aligned to said reference location. 