A cannula and associated endoscope are secured to an operating table by a mechanical linkage assembly having linear and angular connections. These connections are adjustable for supporting an endoscope extending through an incision. Two angular connections are friction joints that allow manual repositioning of the scope by pivoting about respective orthogonal axes that intersect at a point along the scope that is coincident with the location of the incision.
Claims I claim: 1. An endoscope supporting apparatus for supporting an endoscope extending along a scope axis through an incision region corresponding to an incision in a patient positioned adjacent to an external frame comprising: a base fixedly mountable on the external frame; a holder fixedly mountable to the endoscope for supporting the endoscope with the scope axis extending through the incision region; and articulating means coupling said base to said holder for restraining movement of said holder to motion only about a plurality of non-parallel axes that pass through the incision region. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of axes intersect the scope axis. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of axes are orthogonal and intersect. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of axes intersect in the incision region. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said articulating means includes a first pivot means for pivoting said holder about a first axis and a second pivot means spaced from said first pivot means for pivoting said holder about a second axis, with both of said first and second pivot means being spaced from the incision region. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said holder supports an endoscope externally of the incision region. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said articulating means further comprises means for resisting movement about at least one of the plurality of axes when a force is applied to said holder about the at least one axis. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said means for resisting movement further comprises means for varying the minimum force. 9. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said articulating means further comprises means manually operable in a first state for disabling said means for resisting movement whereby said holder is freely moveable about the at least one axis, and in a second state for enabling said means for resisting movement about the at least one axis. 10. An apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said disabling means, when in said second state, is manually operable at a plurality of distinct positions about the at least one axis. 11. An apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said articulating means includes first and second support bodies and a movement member, both of said first and second support bodies being mounted relative to said movement member for movement about the one axis, said means for resisting movement being structured for resisting movement between said first support body and said movement member, said second support body being freely moveable about the one axis relative to said movement member, and said disabling means comprising means for selectively fixing the position of said second support body relative to said movement member. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said articulating means further comprises means for resisting movement about the plurality of axes when forces are applied to said holder about the plurality of axes. 13. An apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said means for resisting movement further comprises means for varying the resistances to movement about the first and second axes. 14. An endoscope supporting apparatus for supporting an endoscope extending through a region containing an incision in a patient positioned on a surgical table having a mounting rail, comprising: a first clamp fixedly mountable at a position along the mounting rail of the surgical table; a first arm; a second clamp for fixedly securing said first arm in a selected vertical position relative to said first clamp and in a selected orientation about a vertical first axis; a third clamp having a clamp body, said third clamp being mounted on the upper end of said first arm for fixedly securing said clamp body about a horizontal second axis that is orthogonal to the first axis; a second arm; a first manually operable pivot means mounted on said clamp body for pivoting said second arm about t third axis that is orthogonal to the first axis when the third axis is horizontal and is orthogonal top the second axis when viewed from a plane parallel to both the second and third axes; a fourth clamp for fixedly securing said second arm in a selected position along the third axis; a holder fixedly mountable to the endoscope for holding the endoscope along a scope axis that intersects the third axis at a given point; and a second manually operable pivot means mounted on an end of said second arm spaced from said third clamp and selectively a manually attached to said holder for pivoting said holder relative to said second arm about a fourth axis that is orthogonal to and intersects the third axis at the given point; whereby an endoscope is manually pivotable about the given point when secured in said holder and said first, second, third and fourth clamps are secured. 