An improved electronic solid-state record/playback device (SSRPD) and electronic system may be used to record and playback information such as audio, video, control, and other data. The SSRPD uses no tape or moving parts in the actual record/playback process but includes an audio and/or video and/or other data record/playback module (RPM), which performs all of the record signal conversion, recording and data compression algorithms, digital signal processing, and playback signal conversion. The SSRPD has program input processing and control output processing modules so that other devices may be controlled in different ways including interactive control. A time and control processor module facilitates internal synchronization of the SSRPD audio, video, and control information, as well as synchronization with other devices. The SSRPD information described is recorded into an internal resident memory(s). The novel interface allows information to be exchanged without degradation via a digital Portable Storage Device (PSD) which may be a Random Access Memory card (RAM card), with other SSRPDs as well as to a special Computer Interface Device (CID). The CID is an intelligent device that connects to a standard computing device such as a PC and facilitates functions such as reading, writing, editing, and archiving PSD data, as well as performing diagnostic routines.
Claims We claim: 1. A solid-state record/playback system for recording and playing back information such as audio, video, control information or internal control and for control of external devices and other data and combinations thereof comprising: at least one solid-state record/playback device having multiple inputs and multiple outputs and including: at least one resident record/playback memory for storing information, and a record/playback module, and a record/playback controller module; said information including at least audio and control information for internal control and for control of external devices; said record/playback module and said record/playback controller module being operatively connected to record/playback module bus means; said record/playback module being operative to perform record signal conversion and playback signal conversion; means connected to said record/playback module bus means to receive said information from and to transfer said information to a portable digital transfer means; digital portable transfer means for transferring said information to and optionally receiving said information from said solid-state record/playback device whereby said information may be inputted to at least one solid-state record/playback device or received therefrom for inputting into other solid-state record/playback devices. 2. A solid-state record/playback system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said solid-state record/playback system includes a plurality of solid-state record/playback devices, and said digital portable transfer means being adapted to transfer information to each of said solid-state record/playback devices. 3. A solid-state record/playback system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said solid-state record/playback device includes a motion sensor input and an audio output. 4. A solid-state record/playback system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said solid-state record/playback device is battery operated and includes means to provide a low power active sleep mode. 5. A solid-state record/playback system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said solid-state record/playback module includes an audio record/playback module in which a DC offset voltage exists; and means to generate record and playback correction values for correcting the DC offset voltage. 6. A solid-state record/playback system as set forth in claim 1 further including: an intelligent interface device adapted to communicate with a terminal or computer to perform reading, writing, and editing data in the digital portable transfer means; and said intelligent interface device also being adapted to perform diagnostic procedures on the digital portable transfer means as well as the solid-state record/playback device. 7. A solid-state record/playback system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said record/playback module includes an audio/video record/playback module time and control processor means, and means to effect communication between the time and control processor means and said record/playback controller module. 8. A solid-state record/playback system as set forth in claim 2 wherein said solid-state record/playback device includes an analog to digital converter and a digital to analog converter, and said converters being connected to said time and control processor means and time and control bus means, the latter being connected to said means to effect communication between said time and control processor and said record/playback controller module. 9. A solid-state record/playback device comprising: solid-state record/playback circuitry which performs record conversions, digital signal compression, digital signal processing, and playback conversion; internal timing and control processing circuitry; input and output interface circuitry; control output processing circuitry for internal control and for control of external devices; program input processing circuitry for receiving internal control information and information for control of external devices; record/playback memory means, said record/playback circuitry and said record/playback means being connected to record/playback bus means, and additional data bus means for interfacing said interfacing and processing circuitry and said memory. 10. A solid-state record/playback device as set forth in claim 9 including means to input audio, video, control and other information; and means to output said information. 11. A solid-state record/playback device as set forth in claim 9 including means to input audio and means to output audio in response to a command. 12. A solid-state record/playback device comprising: a record/playback module; means in said record/playback module to effect record signal conversion, compression of recording and data, digital signal processing and control output processing; means to input data into said record/playback module for output thereof in response to a trigger signal of predetermined programmable characteristics; means to receive an input trigger signal; and means to adjust the sensitivity of the trigger signal whereby said record/playback module responds to a trigger signal of said predetermined programmable characteristics. 13. A solid-state record/playback device as set forth in claim 12 wherein said device is normally in a low power mode and includes: means to determine the occurrence of said trigger signal at predetermined intervals; means to sample the trigger signal to determine if there is present said predetermined programmable characteristics; means operative in response to a trigger signal of said predetermined programmable characteristics to increase the power mode to an operative mode, to output at least some of the data from said record/playback device and thereafter revert to the low power mode. 14. A solid-state record/playback device as set forth in claim 12 further including: means to transfer information to and from a digital portable transfer device for inputting and outputting information therefrom. 