An orthopedic saw guide for confining the blade of a surgical saw to movement in a single plane while allowing translational and rotational movement of the blade within the plane. A pair of elongated guideplates are secured together at either end to form a partially enclosed space. The distance between the inner surfaces of the guide plates is adjustable, and is preferably adjusted to be slightly greater than the thickness of the specific blade to be used. Mounting means is provided for rigidly securing the saw guide relative to the bone, so that the plane defined by the space between the inner surfaces corresponds to the cut plane. The inner surfaces of the guide plates include guide liners that are comprised of a low-friction material. The liners may be permanently secured to the guide plates or removable and disposable. The guide plates are curved in the plane of the guide surfaces so that the saw guide can be mounted close to the end of a bone to provide maximum access to the bone with the closest possible positioning of the guide.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege claimed are defined as follows: 1. An orthopaedic saw guide for confining a blade of a surgical saw to movement in a single plane, while allowing translational and rotational movement of the blade within the plane, said saw guide comprising a pair of curved elongated guide plates having outer surfaces and opposing inner surfaces, securing means for securing said plates together such that said inner surfaces and securing means define a guide space, and means for adjusting the distance between said inner surfaces, whereby the saw guide may be positioned adjacent a bone such that said guide space corresponds to a cut plane, and the blade can then be inserted in said guide space and constrained in the cut plane. 2. A saw guide as claimed in claim 1, wherein said inner surfaces of said guide plates include guide liners that are comprised of a low-friction material. 3. A saw guide as claimed in claim 2, wherein said guide plates are semicircular in the plane of said guide surfaces, whereby the saw guide can be placed close to the bone to be cut. 4. A saw guide as claimed in claim 2, wherein said guide liner includes attachment means for removably attaching said liner to said guide plate. 5. A saw guide as claimed in claim 4, wherein said guide plates are semicircular in the plane of said guide surfaces, whereby the saw guide can be placed close to the end of the bone to be cut. 6. A saw guide as claimed in claim 1, further comprising mounting means for rigidly securing said saw guide relative to a reference structure. 7. A saw guide as claimed in claim 6, used in a system including rigid devices that are secured relative to the reference structure, wherein said mounting means includes stabilizing means for attaching said saw guide to the rigid devices. 