A method and apparatus for detecting the presence of gaseous impurities, notably oxygen, in a gas mixture that flows over an IC wafer in an etcher during the etching process. The method is based upon the discovery that the ratio of the etch rate of spin-on-glass material to the etch rate of other materials, such as plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD oxide) materials, varies in a predictable manner with the amount of oxygen contaminating the gas mixture. The standard ratio, in the absence of oxygen, is determined for a given set of processing conditions by first etching an SOG wafer, then etching a PECVD oxide material wafer, measuring the amount of material etched in each case, and from that calculating the respective etch rates, and finally taking the ratio of the two calculated etch rates. This standard ratio is used as the benchmark for future tests. When a production run is to be conducted on a new material, the above procedure is repeated when the equipment is otherwise ready for the run, and the new calculated etch rate ratio is compared with the standard ratio. If they are substantially equal, this indicates a lack of oxygen contamination. If the ratio has changed, and other processing conditions have been taken into account (such as RF power and temperature), this indicates the presence of impurities in the gas mixture, and hence probably a leak in the system, or contamination of the gas source itself. In IC manufacturing, the production run is then typically stopped to correct the problem. Calibration data can be generated in advance to determine by how much to adjust the etching time, given a particular measured ratio that is not the same as the standard ratio. The system may be automatically controlled by a computer that calculates the corrected etching time based upon the measured ratio of the respective etch rates of SOG and the PECVD oxide material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting the presence of oxygen contamination in an etching system, including the steps of: (1) forming a first wafer of spin-on-glass (SOG) material; (2) forming a second wafer of plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) oxide material; (3) etching the first wafer at predetermined processing conditions for a first time period; (4) determining a first rate of etching based upon a first thickness of the first wafer etched over said first time period; (5) etching the second wafer at said predetermined processing conditions for a second time period; (6) determining a second rate of etching based upon a second thickness of the second wafer etched over said second time period; (7) determining a test ratio of said first rate of etching to said second rate of etching; (8) comparing said test ratio with a predetermined calibration ratio of a rate of etching of said SOG material to said PECVD oxide material; and (9) generating an error signal when said test ratio is outside a predetermined range relative to said calibration ratio. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined range is no greater than 4% of said predetermined calibration ratio. 3. A method for detecting the presence of a gas impurity in a system for etching materials of predetermined types, the system including a subsystem for providing a flow of a predetermined gas mixture past the materials during the etching process, the predetermined gas mixture including one or more gases and substantially excluding a predetermined impurity, where a ratio of the etch rate of a first type of material to the etch rate of a second type of material is different for different amounts of the predetermined impurity in the predetermined gas mixture, the method including the steps of: (1) etching a first piece of a first type of material for a first length of time in the presence of the predetermined gas mixture and the absence of the predetermined impurity; (2) measuring a first thickness of the first type of material etched in step 1; (3) determining a first etch rate for the first type of material from the first length of time and the first thickness of material etched; (4) etching a second piece of a second type of material for a second length of time in the presence of the gas mixture and the absence of the predetermined impurity; (5) measuring a second thickness of the second type of material etched in step 4; (6) determining a second etch rate for the second type of material from the second length of time and the second thickness of material etched; (7) determining a first etch rate ratio of the first etch rate to the second etch rate; (8) repeating steps 1-3, for a third piece of the first type of material, and repeating steps 4-6 for a fourth piece of the second type of material, to determine a third etch rate for the third piece of material and a fourth etch rate for the fourth piece of material; (9) determining a second etch rate ratio of the third etch rate to the fourth etch rate; (10) comparing the second etch ratio with the first etch ratio; and (11) generating a signal indicative of the presence of said predetermined impurity in the system when the second etch ration is outside a predetermined range relative to said first etch ratio. 4. The method of claim 3, further including the steps of: repeating steps 1-3 and 4-6 with successive pieces of the first and second material, respectively, with different amounts of the predetermined impurity present in the system at each repetition, and repeating step 7 so as to generate a distinct calibration etch rate ratio for each said amount of the predetermined impurity present, thereby generating a set of calibration etch rate ratios for the first and second materials correlated with amounts of the impurity. 5. The method of claim 4, further including the steps of: determining a desired etching time for etching a production piece of material, the desired etching time based upon said first etch rate determine in step 3; determining an impurity content ratio of said second etch rate ratio to said first etch rate ratio. 6. The method of claim 5, further including the step of: if said impurity content ratio is other than substantially 1:1, adjusting the desired etching time for a fifth piece of material, based upon said impurity content ratio, to compensate for the presence of the impurity. 7. The method of claim 5, further including the steps of: if said impurity content ratio is other than substantially 1:1, determining from said set of calibration etch rate ratios the amount of the impurity present in the system; and generating an output indicating said amount of the impurity present. 