A method for programming a robot or forming a numerical control program for a machine tool comprises analyzing the actual motions of a human being and designing a new motion based on knowledge obtained by analysis of the forces and torques acting on the joints of the human body. A robot body or machine tool is divided into a plurality of independent elements, and the motion of each element, when a force corresponding to a basic motion of a human being is exerted thereon, is calculated using dynamics. Constraints including the articulation of the robot body or machine tool and the range of movements of its joints are applied to the robot body or machine tool. Forces corresponding to motions produced by the application of constraints are calculated by inverse dynamics. The motions of and forces acting on the elements of the robot body or machine tool are displayed on a screen.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot programming method using a computer, comprising the steps of: maintaining, in a database, data for modeling a human or animal body, which body has been divided into a plurality of segments, each of said segments connected by joints and each of said segments acting as a minimal unit of motion, said data relating to an inherent nature of each of said segments and physical constraints including inter-relationship of each segment and range of movements of said joints; observing actual movements of a human or animal body, including a position of each said segment at predetermined intervals in the course of such actual movement; analyzing the data as to the position of each said segment as observed during actual movements and calculating by inverse dynamics centers of gravity of each said segments and of the whole human or animal body, force and torque exerted on each said center of gravity and force and torque exerted on each said joint; inputting the calculated results from said calculating step into said database; determining a new motion to be designed; calculating by dynamics, and neglecting physical constraints, motion of each body segment, independently of the remaining body segments, based on forces corresponding to the new motion selected in said determining step using the data maintained in said database for previously analyzed motions and dynamic equations governing movement of each segment; applying said physical constraints as stored in said database to check that each segment is articulated to the adjacent segment and that the movement of each joint does not exceed the range specified by said physical constraints, and adjusting the position of each segment until each of said physical constraints are met; and displaying on a screen the motion of the robot as designed by said steps of calculating by dynamics and applying physical constraints. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1, further including the steps of, after said step of applying physical constraints and before said displaying step: applying inverse dynamics to calculate forces on each joint as adjusted in said step of applying physical constraints to thereby provide a reasonable and integrated set of forces for dynamics to produce the motions which have been adjusted due to the physical constraints; and inputting the results of said step of applying inverse dynamics into said database. 3. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein said display step further includes displaying one or more of the center of gravity of each of said body segment, the force and torque exerted on each joint, the center of gravity of the whole body and the force and torque exerted on the center of gravity of the whole body. 4. A method in accordance with claim 3, wherein said centers of gravity, forces and/or torques are displayed as symbols superimposed over a display body model. 5. A method in accordance with claim 1, further including the step of integrating the animation displayed in said displaying step with an object oriented paradigm for a direct manipulation of the robot. 6. A numerical control technique for machine tool programming using a computer, comprising the steps of: maintaining, in a database, data for modeling the body of a human machine tool operator, which body has been divided into a plurality of segments, each of said segments connected by joints and each of said segments acting as a minimal unit of motion, said data relating to an inherent nature of each of said segments and physical constraints including inter-relationship of each segment and range of movements of said joints; observing actual movements of a human body, including a position of each said segment at predetermined intervals in the course of such actual movement; analyzing the data as to the position of each said segment as observed during actual movements and calculating by inverse dynamics centers of gravity of each of said segments and of the whole human body, force and torque exerted on each said center of gravity and force and torque exerted on each said joint; inputting the calculated results from said calculating step into said database; determining a new motion to be designed; calculating by dynamics, and neglecting physical constraints, motion of each body segment, independently of the remaining body segments, based on forces corresponding to the new motion selected in said determining step using the data maintained is said database for previously analyzed motions and dynamic equations governing movement of each segment; applying said physical constraints as stored in said database to check that each segment is articulated to the adjacent segment and that the movement of each joint does not exceed the range specified by said physical constraints, and adjusting the position of each segment until each of said physical constraints are met; and displaying on a screen the motion of the machine tool operator as designed by said steps of calculating by dynamics and applying physical constraints. 7. A method in accordance with claim 6, further including the steps of, after said step of applying physical constraints and before said displaying step: applying inverse dynamics to calculate the force on each joint as adjusted in said step of applying physical constraints to thereby provide a reasonable and integrated set of forces for dynamics to produce the motions which have been adjusted due to the physical constraints; and inputting the results of said step of applying inverse dynamics into said database. 8. A method in accordance with claim 6, wherein said display step further includes displaying one or more of the center of gravity of each of said body segment, the force and torque exerted on each joint, the center of gravity of the whole body and the force and torque exerted on the center of gravity of the whole body. 9. A method in accordance with claim 8, wherein said centers of gravity, forces and/or torques are displayed as symbols superimposed over a display body model. 10. A method in accordance with claim 6, further including the step of integrating the animation displayed in said displaying step with a numerical control program for causing a machine tool to be operated in the manner displayed for the animated machine tool operator. 