A point-to-point soldering apparatus applies solder to predetermined points on a workpiece in response to control signals from a control circuit. The apparatus includes a heat source moveable to first locations adjacent to the solder points in response to control signals from the control circuit and a solder material source moveable to second locations adjacent to the solder points independently of the heat source in response to control signals from the control circuit. The heat source is mounted on a first robotic positioner and the material source is mounted on a second robotic positioner for independent movement and positioning. A user-programmable controller executes preset soldering routines in which the heat source and material source are positioned adjacent to solder points and commanded to apply heat and solder in accordance with the soldering routines. A code reader may be provided for detecting a code representing the configuration of workpieces to be soldered and the soldering routine to be executed by the controller. A tool wear monitor may be provided for determining the degree of tool wear, whereby the soldering tool is automatically changed when an unacceptable degree of wear is detected. A method for applying solder to points on a workpiece is also presented.
Claims I claim: 1. A point-to-point soldering apparatus for applying solder to predetermined points on a workpiece, the apparatus comprising: a heat source moveable between first locations adjacent to the predetermined points along first trajectories in response to control signals from a control circuit; and a solder material source moveable between second locations adjacent to the predetermined points along second trajectories independently of the heat source in response to control signals from the control circuit; and a control circuit coupled to the heat source and to the solder material source, the control circuit generating control signals directing movement of the heat source and the solder material source along the first and second trajectories to the first and second locations. 2. A soldering apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the heat source is moveable with respect to the solder material source during a soldering operation at the predetermined points. 3. A soldering apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the solder material source is moveable with respect to the heat source during a soldering operation at the predetermined points. 4. A soldering apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the heat source includes a hot-metal soldering tool. 5. A soldering apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the heat source includes a gas torch. 6. A soldering apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the heat source includes a laser beam emitter. 7. A point-to-point soldering apparatus for applying solder to predetermined points on a workpiece, the apparatus comprising: a first robotic positioner; a second robotic positioner; a heat source coupled to the first robotic positioner, moveable through first trajectories to first locations adjacent to the predetermined points in response to control signals; a solder material source coupled to the second robotic positioner, moveable through second trajectories to second locations adjacent to the predetermined points in response to control signals; and a control circuit coupled to the first and second robotic positioners and configured to generate control signals and to apply the control signals to the first and second robotic positioners to direct movement of the heat source and the solder material source to the first and second locations through the first and second trajectories. 8. A soldering apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein the control circuit includes: a master control circuit and a robot control circuit, the master control circuit being coupled to the heat source and to the solder material source and configured to generate control signals and to apply the control signals to the heat source and to the solder material source to cause solder to be applied to at the predetermined points, the master control circuit further being coupled to the robot control circuit and configured to generate control signals indicative of the coordinates of the first and second locations, the robot control circuit being coupled to the first and second robotic positioners and configured to generate control signals causing the robotic positioners to move the heat source and the solder material source to the first and second locations. 9. A soldering apparatus as recited in claim 8 wherein the master control circuit is included in a programmable logic controller. 10. A soldering apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein the heat source includes a hot metal soldering tool removably mounted to the first robotic positioner, and wherein the apparatus further includes a tool wear monitoring device for detecting wear of the soldering tool, a tool replacement station for receiving worn and replacement soldering tools, and a tool wear monitoring circuit coupled to the monitoring device and to the control circuit and configured to generate signals indicative of tool wear and to apply these signals to the control circuit. 11. A soldering apparatus as recited in claim 10 wherein the tool wear monitoring device includes a camera coupled to the tool wear monitoring circuit. 12. A point-to-point soldering apparatus for applying solder to predetermined points on workpieces of varying configuration, the apparatus comprising: a first robotic positioner; a second robotic positioner; a heat source coupled to the first robotic positioner and moveable through first trajectories to first locations adjacent to the predetermined points in response to control signals; a solder material source coupled to the second robotic positioner and moveable through second trajectories to second locations adjacent to the predetermined points in response to control signals; a workpiece recognition device for detecting a characteristic of a workpiece indicative of the workpiece configuration and generating an identification signal representative of the characteristic; and a control circuit coupled to the first and second robotic positioners and to the workpiece recognition device and configured to receive the identification signal, to reference a preset soldering routine based upon the identification signal, to generate control signals based upon the preset soldering routine and to apply the control signals to the first and second robotic positioners to direct movement of the heat source and the solder material source to the first and second locations through the first and second trajectories. 13. A soldering apparatus as recited in claim 12 wherein each of the workpieces carries optically coded indicia indicative of the workpiece configuration and the workpiece recognition device includes an optical code reader capable of detecting the indicia. 14. A soldering apparatus as recited in claim 12 further including a workpiece-locating member for engaging and locating the workpiece in a reference position. 15. A soldering apparatus as recited in claim 14 wherein the workpiece-locating member is moveable between an engaged position, wherein the locating member contacts and locates the workpiece in the reference position, and a non-engaged position, wherein the locating member is not in contact with the workpiece. 16. A method for applying solder to a solder point on a workpiece, the method being implemented by a soldering apparatus including a heat source, a solder material feed source and a control circuit coupled to the heat source and to the solder material feed source, the control circuit generating control signals and applying the control signals to the heat source and to the solder material feed source to control their operation, the method comprising the steps of: (a) applying control signals to the heat source to direct movement of the heat source through a first trajectory to a first location adjacent to the solder point; (b) applying control signals to the solder material feed source to direct movement of the solder material feed source through a second trajectory to a second location adjacent to the solder point independently of the heat source; (c) applying heat from the heat source at the solder point; and (d) feeding solder material from the solder material feed source, whereby solder material is made to flow at the solder point. 17. The method of claim 16 including, during step (c), the further step of displacing the heat source with respect to the solder point. 18. The method of claim 16 including, during step (d), the further step of displacing the solder material feed source with respect to the solder point. 19. The method of claim 16 including, prior to step (a), the further steps of detecting a characteristic of the workpiece and of correlating the characteristic to reference data to determine the coordinates of the solder point. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the characteristic is optical code and the reference data are stored in an electronic memory device. 