A method in which a temperature gradient is generated across a "gradient" block, and an apparatus comprising a block across which a temperature gradient can be generated. By setting up such a gradient, multiple reaction mixtures held in wells on the gradient block can be simultaneously run at temperatures which differ only slightly, thereby permitting an optimum temperature for the reaction to be quickly identified. In a preferred embodiment the gradient block is integrated into a thermal cycler used for nucleic acid amplification reactions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for generating a temperature gradient across a heat conducting block comprising: a reaction mixture holder including a heat conducting block having top and bottom portions, first and second opposing end portions, and opposing side walls extending between said opposing end portions; said heat conducting block having a plurality of reaction mixture wells formed in said top portion and spaced across said top portion in parallel rows; said heat conducting block having holes bored therethrough between the rows of wells and extending through the block between said side walls; a first block heater positioned adjacent to said first opposing end portion; and a block cooler positioned adjacent to said second opposing end portion. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said heat conducting block is composed of brass. 3. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said block cooler is a heat sink attached to the second opposing end portion of said heat conducting block. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 3 wherein said block cooler further comprises a fan positioned adjacent to said heat sink. 5. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising a second block heater positioned adjacent to said bottom portion, and means for independently controlling said first and second block heaters. 6. An apparatus for performing molecular biological reactions comprising: a temperature-gradient block having a plurality of rows of reaction mixture wells formed in a top portion thereof, wherein said temperature-gradient block has first and second opposing end portions and opposing side walls extending between said opposing end portions; said temperature-gradient block having holes bored therethrough between the rows of wells and extending through the block between said side walls; and means for generating a temperature gradient between said first and second opposing end portions of the temperature-gradient block. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said temperature-gradient block is composed of brass. 8. An apparatus according to claim 6 further comprising a heating means for heating a bottom portion of said temperature-gradient block. 