An automated memory cartridge system prioritizes requests for tape retrieval. The requests to transfer cartridges may be assigned a priority relating to the importance of the request. The system will recognize these requests and organize them so that higher priority requests will be executed ahead of other lower priority requests. This prioritization will be accomplished in such a manner which allows even very low priority requests to eventually be carried out.
Claims We claim: 1. In a mass storage system an apparatus for moving storage objects in a multi-dimensional array of storage object locations in response to a plurality of requests requiring at least a first and second resource to transfer storage objects between locations, comprising: first and second resources to transfer a storage object between locations; means for assigning a priority to the requests; means operable when the first resource becomes available for allocating the first resource to the highest priority request requiring the first resource; means operable when the second resource becomes available for allocating the second resource to the highest priority request requiring the second resource; and means for executing the transfer after the first and second resources have been allocated to the request requiring the allocated first and second resources. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for increasing the priority of a request requiring a resource when the resource is allocated to another request. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a queue; and means for entering in the queue higher priority requests in front of lower priority requests; and wherein the allocating means includes means operable when one of the resources becomes available for scanning the queue from the front to the back and allocating the available resource to the first request in the queue requiring the available resource. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, the entering means comprising: means for receiving one or more new requests to transfer an object; and means for entering new requests in the queue such that higher priority requests are entered in front of lower priority requests. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising means operable when a new request is entered in the queue for increasing the priority of a request in the queue with a priority lower than the newly entered request. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a queue for each of the resources; and means for entering in the queue for one of the resources higher priority requests requiring the resource in front of lower priority requests requiring the resource; and wherein the allocating means includes means operable when one of the resources becomes available for scanning the queue for the resource from the front to the back and allocating the available resource to the first request in the queue requiring the available resource. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, the entering means comprising: means for receiving one or more new requests requiring said resource to transfer an object; and means for entering new requests requiring said resource in the queue such that higher priority requests are entered in front of lower priority requests. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising means operable when a new request is entered in the queue for increasing the priority of a request in the queue with a priority lower than the newly entered request. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said storage object is a magnetic storage object. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said storage object is a magnetic tape cartridge. 11. In a mass storage system a method of moving storage objects in a multi-dimensional array of storage object locations with two or more resources for transferring the storage objects between locations in response to a plurality of requests requiring at least a first and second resource to transfer a storage object between locations, comprising the steps of: assigning a priority to the requests; allocating the first resource, when it becomes available, to the highest priority request requiring the first resource; allocating the second resource, when it becomes available, to the highest priority request requiring the second resource; and executing the transfer after the first and second resources have been allocated to the request requiring the allocated first and second resources. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of increasing the priority of a request requiring a resource when the resource is allocated to another request. 13. The method of claim 11 further comprising the steps of: entering in a queue higher priority requests in front of lower priority requests; scanning the queue when one of the resources becomes available from the front to the back; and allocating the available resource to the first request in the queue requiring the available resource. 14. In a mass storage system an apparatus for moving storage objects in a multi-dimensional array of storage object locations in response to a plurality of requests to transfer storage objects between locations, each request requiring two or more resources to accomplish the transfer, comprising: one or more first resources to transfer storage objects between locations; one or more second resources to transfer storage objects between locations; assigning means for assigning a priority to a request which requires a first and second resource; a first allocating means operable when a first resource becomes available for allocating the available first resource to the highest priority request requiring the available first resource; a second allocating means operable when a second resource becomes available for allocating the available second resource to the highest priority request requiring the available second resource; and executing means for executing the transfer after the first and second resources have been allocated to the request requiring the allocated first and second resources. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising: a first queue for requests requiring one of the first resources; a second queue for requests requiring one of the second resources; a first entering means for entering in the first queue higher priority requests requiring one of the first resources in front of lower priority requests in the first queue; a second entering means for entering in the second queue higher priority requests requiring one of the second resources in front of lower priority requests in the second queue; wherein the first allocating means includes means operable when a first resource becomes available for scanning the first queue and allocating the available resource to the highest priority request in the first queue requiring the available first resource; and wherein the second allocating means includes means operable when a second resource becomes available for scanning the second queue and allocating the available resource to the highest priority request in the second queue requiring the available second resource. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising: a first increasing priority means operable when a new request is entered in the first queue for increasing the priority of requests in the first queue having a priority lower than the newly entered request; and a second increasing priority means operable when a new request is entered in the second queue for increasing the priority of requests in the second queue having a priority lower than the newly entered request. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising; a first increasing priority means operable when a resource is allocated to a request for increasing the priority of requests in the first queue having a priority lower than the request that was allocated the resource; and a second increasing priority means operable when a resource is allocated to a request for increasing the priority of requests in the second queue having a priority lower than the request that was allocated the resource. 18. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising: a first queue for each of the first resources; a second queue for each of the second resources; entering means for entering in a queue for a particular resource higher priority requests requiring the particular resource in front of lower priority requests requiring the particular resource; wherein the first allocating means includes means operable when a first resource becomes available for allocating the available first resource to the first request in the queue for the available first resource; and wherein the second allocating means includes means operable when a second resource becomes available for allocating the available second resource to the first request in the queue for the available second resource. 