A robot for performing a working operation on a surface. The robot comprises a frame which supports a pair of parallel tracks. An endless link chain is mounted for travel on each track and each chain is driven by an independent motor mounted on the frame. Each track is provided with at least two recesses with each recess having an open side facing the respective chain. A series of vacuum cups are mounted on each chain and are adapted to engage the surface to be traversed. A first series of ports connect a first recess of each track and a first group of vacuum cups on each chain, while a second series of ports communicate between the second recess of each track and a second group of vacuum cups. A source of vacuum is connected to the recesses and acts through the ports to the respective vacuum cups to enable the vacuum cups to grip the surface. In a preferred manner of use, the robot is employed with a laser tracking system in the non-destructive inspection of an aircraft.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic apparatus for traversing a surface, comprising a supporting structure, a pair of parallel tracks, an endless member mounted for travel on each track, drive means for driving each endless member in a path of travel, each track including a first recess and a second recess, said recesses disposed in side-by-side laterally spaced relation, said recesses each having an open side facing the respective endless member, a plurality of vacuum cups mounted on each endless member, first port means providing communication between said first recess of each track and a first group of vacuum cups, second port means providing communication between the second recess of each track and a second group of said vacuum cups, and vacuum means for creating a negative pressure in each recess. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said drive means comprises a pair of separate drive members each being operably connected to an endless member. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said endless member comprises a link chain. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, and including a belt secured to a surface of each endless member and disposed to ride against the respective track. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein each belt includes a plurality tubular members, each tubular member disposed in said first and second port means to provide communication between each recess and the respective vacuum cup. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said tracks are flexible and enable said robotic apparatus to conform to contoured surfaces. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said supporting structure includes an outer open bottom hood, and a flexible brush seal mounted on the peripheral edge of the hood bordering the open bottom and disposed to sealingly engage said surface. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said hood is provided with an aperture spaced from said open bottom, said apparatus including blower means communicating with said aperture for creating a negative pressure within the hood to prevent the robotic apparatus from falling from said surface in the event of a failure of said vacuum means. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said aperture is disposed in the upper surface of said hood and said blower means is mounted in said aperture. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, and including a working attachment connected to said supporting surface and constructed to perform a working operation on the surface. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, and including means for applying down pressure to said attachment to urge said attachment against said surface. 12. A robotic apparatus for traversing a surface, comprising a supporting frame, a pair of parallel tracks, a pair of endless members each mounted for travel in an upper run and a lower run, the lower run of each endless member being guided in travel on the respective track, a pair of separate drive members each operably connected to one of said endless members to move the endless member in travel on said track, each track including a first recess, a second recess, a third recess and a fourth recess, said recesses each having an open side facing the respective endless member, said first and second recesses being spaced laterally of each other and said third and fourth recesses being spaced laterally from each other and being longitudinally aligned with the first and second recesses respectfully, a plurality of vacuum cups mounted on each endless member, a plurality of first ports in each endless member providing communication between the first and third recesses and a first group of said vacuum cups, a plurality of second ports in each endless member providing communication between the second and fourth recesses and a second group of said vacuum cups, and vacuum means for creating a negative pressure in each recess. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, and including an endless belt mounted on a surface of each endless member and disposed to engage the respective track as the endless member moves in its path of travel, said belt having a plurality of holes each aligned with the ports in the endless member. 14. A robotic apparatus for traversing a surface, comprising a supporting frame, a pair of endless members mounted for movement on said frame, each endless member having an upper run and a lower run disposed to engage the surface, drive means operably connected to said endless members for moving said endless members in a path of travel to move said apparatus in a direction over the surface, a plurality of vacuum cups mounted on each endless member, vacuum means for creating a negative pressure in the vacuum cups disposed in the lower run of each endless member, and a laser beam retro reflector mounted on the frame in position to receive and reflect a laser beam from a laser tracking unit. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said retro reflector is mounted generally centrally of said frame and projects upwardly above said frame. 16. A robotic apparatus for traversing a surface, comprising a supporting frame, a pair of endless members mounted for movement on said frame, each endless member having an upper run and a lower run disposed to engage the surface, drive means operably connected to said endless members for moving said endless members in a path of travel to move said apparatus in a direction over the surface, a plurality of vacuum cups mounted on each endless member, vacuum means for creating a negative pressure in the vacuum cups disposed in the lower run of each endless member, surface sensing means mounted on the frame and disposed to ride on the surface as the apparatus traverses said surface, said surface sensing means being movable in accordance with deviations in said surface in a second direction at an angle to the direction of movement of the apparatus, and means responsive to movement of said surface sensing means in said second direction to generate a surface map of said surface. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said surface sensing means comprises a sensing member, and means for mounting said sensing member for movement in said second direction, said second direction being generally normal to a plane extending through the lower runs of said endless members. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, and including biasing means for biasing the sensing member toward said surface. 19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said sensing means comprises a sensing member disposed to ride on said surface, a support to carry said sensing member, means for mounting the support for sliding movement relative to said frame in said direction, and biasing means for biasing the sensing member toward said surface. 20. A combination, comprising a robotic apparatus for traversing a surface and having a supporting frame, a pair of endless members mounted for movement on said frame, each endless member having an upper run and a lower run disposed to engage the surface, drive means operably connected to said endless members for moving said endless members in a path of travel to move said apparatus in a direction over the surface, a plurality of vacuum cups mounted on each endless member, vacuum means for creating a negative pressure in the vacuum cups disposed in the lower run of each endless member, and a laser tracking unit including laser beam generating means located at a remote location relative to said robotic apparatus for generating an incident laser beam, a laser beam retro reflector mounted on the frame in position to receive and reflect said incident laser beam, said laser tracking unit also including means for comparing the incident beam and the reflected beam to provide a measurement of the spatial coordinates of the retro reflector. 21. A robotic apparatus for traversing a surface, comprising a supporting structure, a pair of parallel tracks, an endless member mounted for travel on each track, drive means for driving each endless member in a path of travel, each track including a first recess and a second recess, said recesses each having an open side facing the respective endless member, a plurality of vacuum cups mounted on each endless member, first port means providing communication between said first recess of each track and a first group of vacuum cups, second port means providing communication between the second recess of each track and a second group of said vacuum cups, a flexible channel member disposed in each recess, each channel member having an open side facing the respective endless member and having a flexible peripheral lip disposed in bearing engagement with the endless member, biasing means for biasing each channel member toward the endless member, and vacuum means for creating a negative pressure in each recess. 22. A robotic apparatus for traversing a surface, comprising a supporting structure, a pair of parallel tracks, an endless member mounted for travel on each track, drive means for driving each endless member in a path of travel, each track including a first recess and a second recess, said recesses each having an open side facing the respective endless member, a plurality of vacuum cups mounted on each endless member, first port means providing communication between said first recess of each track and a first group of vacuum cups, second port means providing communication between the second recess of each track and a second group of said vacuum cups, vacuum means for creating a negative pressure in each recess, said vacuum means including a manifold mounted on each track and connected with a source of vacuum, and conduit means independently connecting said manifold with each of said recesses. 23. A robotic apparatus for traversing a surface, comprising a supporting structure, a pair of parallel tracks, an endless member mounted for travel on each track, drive means for driving each endless member in a path of travel, each track including a first recess and a scold recess, said recesses each having an open side facing the respective endless member, a plurality of vacuum cups mounted on each endless member, first port means providing communication between said first recess of each track and a first group of vacuum cups, second port means providing communication between the second recess of each track and a second group of said vacuum cups, vacuum means for creating a negative pressure in each recess, and valve means associated with each port means for closing said port means in the event ambient air leaks into said vacuum cup. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein said valve means comprises a valve member disposed within said vacuum cup and movable between a closed position wherein the valve member encloses said port means and an open position. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein said valve member is a flexible strip. 26. A robotic apparatus for traversing a surface, comprising a supporting frame, a pair of endless members mounted for movement on said frame, each endless member having an upper run and a lower run disposed to engage the surface, drive means operably connected to said endless members for moving said endless members in a path of travel to move said apparatus in a direction over the surface, a plurality of vacuum cups mounted on each endless member, vacuum means for creating a negative pressure in the vacuum cups disposed in the lower run of each endless member, an open bottom hood mounted on the frame and enclosing said endless members, a flexible seal mounted on the peripheral edge of the hood bordering the open bottom and disposed to sealingly engage said surface, negative pressure means separate from the vacuum means for creating a negative pressure within the hood in the event of failure of said vacuum means to prevent said apparatus from falling from said surface and means responsive to a decrease in vacuum generated by said vacuum means below a preselected value for operating said negative pressure means. 27. A robotic apparatus for traversing a surface, comprising a supporting frame, a pair of endless members mounted for movement on said frame, each endless member having an upper run and a lower run disposed to engage the surface, drive means operably connected to said endless members for moving said endless members in a path of travel to move said apparatus in a direction over the surface, a plurality of vacuum cups mounted on each endless member, each vacuum cup having an open side to be disposed in contact with said surface and having a passage communicating with said open side, vacuum means communicating with the passage of each vacuum cup for creating a negative pressure in the vacuum cups disposed in the lower run of each endless member, and valve means associated with each passage for closing said passage in the event ambient air leaks into said vacuum cup. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein said valve means comprises a flexible valve member disposed within said vacuum cup and movable between a closed position wherein the valve member encloses said passage and an open position. 