Multilayer circuit assemblies are made by stacking circuit panels having contacts on their top surfaces, through conductors extending between top and bottom surfaces and terminals connected to the bottomend of each through conductor. The terminals and contacts are arranged so that when the panels are stacked the terminals on the bottom of one panel are in alignment with the contacts on the top surface of the immediately underlying panel. The panels are selectively treated on their top and/or bottom surfaces so as to selectively disconnect or connect each contact to a terminal on the bottom surface of the same panel. For example, the top surface of the panel may be selectively etched to disconnect a contact from one through conductor and hence from the associated terminal. The aligned terminals and contacts are nonselectively connected to one another at each interface so that wherever a terminal and contact on adjacent panels are aligned with one another there are connected to one another. This forms composite vertical conductors extending through a plurality of the panels. The selective treatment of the panel top and bottom surfaces provides selective interruptions in the vertical conductors. A circuit panel precursor having the through conductors and methods of making the same are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multilayer circuit assembly comprising: a plurality of circuit panels including at least one panel of a first set and at least one panel of a second set, each said panel having a dielectric body defining oppositely directed top and bottom surfaces, a plurality of through conductors extending between the top and bottom surfaces of the panel, a plurality of terminals on the bottom surface of the panel, each said terminal being connected to one said through conductor and a plurality of contacts on the top surface of the panel, at least some of the contacts of each panel being connected to the through conductors of such panel, said panels of said first set having said contacts at at least some locations of a first pattern and said terminals at all locations of a second pattern, said panels of said second set having said contacts at at least some locations of said second pattern and said terminals at all locations of said first pattern, said panels being superposed on one another in top-surface to bottom-surface facing arrangement with panels of said first and second sets arranged alternately, whereby said panels define at least one interface therebetween, said first patterns being aligned with one another and said second patterns being aligned with one another, whereby the contacts of a lower one of said panels are aligned with the terminals of a higher one of said panels at each said interface, the aligned contacts and terminals being connected to one another at each said interface, whereby at least some through conductors of at least one of said panels are connected by said connected terminals and contacts to through conductors of other panels to form vertical conductors extending through a plurality of said panels, at least one of said panels having less than all of its through conductors connected to contacts of that panel whereby less than all of the through conductors in that panel will be connected to through conductors of the next higher panel. 2. An assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein said panels have surface conductors extending along said top and bottom surfaces, at least some of said surface conductors being connected to said through conductors, the assembly further comprising an insulation layer at each said interface separating said surface conductors on adjacent panels from one another. 3. An assembly as claimed in claim 2 wherein said surface conductors are elongated and extend in mutually perpendicular first and second directions, the surface conductors on the top surface of each panel extending in one of said directions, the conductors on the bottom surface of each panel extending in the other one of said directions. 4. An assembly as claimed in claim 3 wherein the surface conductors on the top surface of each said panel extend in said first direction and the surface conductors on the bottom surface of each said panel extend in said second direction. 5. An assembly as claimed in claim 4 wherein said first and second patterns are rectilinear grids of columns and rows, the columns being parallel to said first direction, the rows being parallel to said second direction. 6. An assembly as claimed in claim 5 wherein said second pattern is identical to said first pattern but offset therefrom in said first direction. 7. An assembly as claimed in claim 4 wherein said through conductors extend substantially vertically between said top and bottom surfaces of said panels, the through conductors of each said panel of said first set being disposed at locations of said second pattern, the through conductors of each said panel of said second set being disposed at locations of said first pattern, the terminals of each said panel being disposed at the bottom ends of the through conductors of such panel. 8. An assembly as claimed in claim 7 wherein each said through conductor includes a hollow tubular via extending into the panel from the bottom surface thereof and defining an interior space open to the bottom surface of the panel. 9. An assembly as claimed in claim 7 wherein the contacts of each said panel are offset from the through conductors of such panel in said first direction but aligned therewith in said second direction. 10. An assembly as claimed in claim 9 wherein at least some of said panels include generally sheetlike interior conductive elements, each such interior conductive element being disposed within the dielectric body of one said panel and extending generally parallel to the top and bottom surfaces thereof, each panel having such an interior element including means for connecting said interior element to at least one of the conductors of such panel. 11. An assembly as claimed in claim 10 wherein said interior element connecting means of each panel having an interior conductive element includes at least one riser extending between said interior conductive element and one of said top and bottom surfaces, the risers of each such panel being offset from the through conductors of such panel in said second direction but aligned with such through conductors in said first direction. 12. An assembly as claimed in claim 10 wherein each said interior element includes apertures extending there through, the through conductors of each panel extending through the apertures in such interior element and being spaced apart from the interior element within such apertures, the dielectric body of the panel extending between the through conductors and the interior element in such apertures. 13. An assembly as claimed in claim 10 wherein at least one of said panels includes a pair of conductive interior elements overlying one another with a dielectric material therebetween, means for connecting one interior element of the pair to one conductor of the panel and means for connecting another dielectric element of the pair to another conductor of the panel. 14. An assembly as claimed in claim 5 wherein at least one said surface conductor extending in said first direction on the top surface of one said panel is connected to at least one said surface conductor extending in said second direction on the bottom surface of a next higher one of said panels. 15. An assembly as claimed in claim 5 wherein at least one said surface conductor extending in said first direction on the top surface of one said panel is connected by a through conductor of such panel to at least one said surface conductor extending in said second direction on the bottom surface of such panel. 16. A circuit panel precursor comprising first and second dielectric sheets, a substantially continuous electrically conductive layer disposed between said dielectric sheets whereby said sheets define top and bottom surfaces remote from said conductive layer, said conductive layer having apertures extending therethrough, the precursor further comprising islands of said electrically conductive material disposed in said apertures between said sheets, the dielectric materials of said sheets being joined with one another in said apertures so that said dielectric materials insulate said islands from said substantially continuous layer of conductive material. 17. A precursor as claimed in claim 16 wherein said dielectric sheets have holes therein aligned with said islands. 18. A precursor as claimed in claim 17 further comprising electrically conductive via material disposed in said holes and extending from said islands to said top and bottom surfaces of said dielectric layers. 19. A precursor as claimed in claim 18 further comprising a surface conductive material on said top and bottom surfaces of said dielectric sheets, said surface conductive material being connected to said via material. 20. A precursor as claimed in claim 19 wherein said surface conductive material is in the form of substantially continuous layers substantially completely covering said top and bottom surfaces of said dielectric layers. 21. A circuit panel precursor comprising a dielectric body defining top and bottom surfaces extending generally parallel to one another, a plurality of through conductors extending through said body between said top and bottom surfaces and having top and bottom ends at such surfaces, and substantially continuous layers of a base metal connected to said through conductors and covering said top and bottom surfaces, the precursor further comprising a noble metal overlying said base metal layers in a plurality of separate contact regions of said top surface offset from said through conductors and in a plurality of separate terminal regions of said bottom surface, there being one said contact region and one said terminal region associated with each said through conductor. 22. A circuit panel precursor as claimed in claim 21 wherein there is a gap devoid of noble metal between the top end of each said through conductor and the associated contact region, the top base metal layer being exposed in each said gap. 23. A circuit panel precursor as claimed in claim 21 wherein the noble metal in each said contact region defines a hole , the top base metal layer being exposed within each such hole. 24. A circuit panel precursor as claimed in claim 21 wherein said through conductors extend substantially vertically between said top and bottom surfaces and wherein each said terminal region encompasses the bottom end of the associated through conductor. 25. A circuit panel precursor as claimed in claim 24 wherein said through conductors are arranged in a rectilinear grid including columns extending in a first direction and rows extending in a second direction perpendicular to said first direction. 26. A circuit panel precursor as claimed in claim 25 wherein each said contact region is offset from the associated through conductor in said first direction, all of said offsets having the same magnitude and sign. 27. A circuit panel precursor as claimed in claim 26 further comprising a sheetlike electrically conductive interior element disposed within said dielectric body and extending generally parallel to said top and bottom surfaces, and a plurality of electrically conductive risers extending from said bottom surface to said conductive interior element, each said riser being aligned in said first direction with one said row of through conductors but offset from the through conductors of such row in said second direction. 28. A circuit panel precursor as claimed in claim 27 wherein said risers include a plurality of said risers interspersed with the through conductors of at least one said row. 29. A circuit panel precursor as claimed in claim 25 further comprising fiducial marks formed from said noble metal on at least one of said top and bottom surfaces in predetermined spatial relation with said contact regions and terminal regions. 30. A circuit panel precursor as claimed in claim 29 wherein said fiducial marks include fiducial marks on both of said top and bottom surfaces, said fiducial marks on said bottom surface being offset from said fiducial marks on said top surface in said first direction, the magnitude and sign of such offset being equal to the magnitude and sign of the offset from said through conductors to said contacts. 31. An assembly as claimed in claim 1 further comprising at least one dielectric layer at each said interface, each dielectric layer at each said interface having holes therein in alignment with the contacts and terminals at such interface, said contacts and terminals being connected to one another through the holes in the dielectric layer. 32. An assembly as claimed in claim 31 further comprising a layer of a material having anisotropic electrical conductivity at each said interface, said anisotropically conductive material connecting said terminals and said contacts through said holes in said dielectric layers. 33. An assembly as claimed in claim 32 wherein said dielectric layers are included in said circuit panels. 34. An assembly as claimed in claim 33 wherein each said circuit panel includes surface conductors extending along its top and bottom surfaces and wherein said dielectric layers extend over said surface conductors. 35. An assembly as claimed in claim 33 wherein said material having anisotropic electrical conductivity is an adhesive. 