A single-sided gasketed panel assembly for use as a flush-mounted panel or window in vehicles, buildings, or other structures, as well as a method and apparatus for making such panel assemblies, wherein the panel assembly comprises a sheet-like panel having; a primer layer and at least one polymeric gasket molded to the panel on the primer layer. The primer applied to the panel has a predetermined transition temperature above which improved adhesion properties are exhibited for polymeric gaskets molded thereon when the primer is at or above such temperature. In a preferred embodiment, a gasket is molded from a thermoplastic polymeric material such as PVC onto the primed portion of the panel while the panel is at or above the transition temperature. The resulting bond between the gasket and panel can withstand a shear force greater than 300 pounds per square inch at a rate of 25 millimeters per minute and a 180.degree. peel test force greater than 30 pounds per linear inch at a rate of 25 millimeters per minute after soaking for at least 250 hours in water having a temperature greater than 175.degree. F. The method for manufacturing the panel assembly includes applying a primer having a predetermined transition temperature as a coating to a surface of a panel, heating the panel and primer coating to a temperature at least equal to the transition temperature of the primer, and molding a gasket, preferably of a thermoplastic polymeric material, onto the surface of the heated panel and the primer coating while the temperature of the primer coating is at least equal to the primer transition temperature. The preferred mold assembly includes a mold cavity defined in a facing surface of one mold section and a heat insulative pad in the second mold section, the pad being urged against the surface of a sheet-like panel at a position opposite the mold cavity when the mold sections are closed.
Claims We claim: 1. A panel assembly for closing a window opening in a vehicle and having a gasket on one surface thereof, comprising: a glass panel having opposing first and second surfaces terminating in a peripheral edge; a primer layer applied to a portion of one of said first and second surfaces, said primer layer having a transition temperature of at least 200.degree. F. at or above which said primer layer exhibits improved adhesion properties for polymeric gaskets molded thereon at such temperatures; and a polymeric gasket molded on said portion of one of said first and second surfaces of said glass panel and bonded thereto by said primer layer when said primer layer is heated to a temperature equal to or greater than said transition temperature, said glass panel including said primer layer being preheated to a temperature equal to or greater than said transition temperature prior to the molding of said gasket. 2. The panel assembly of claim 1 wherein said polymeric gasket is a thermoplastic material. 3. The panel assembly of claim 2 wherein said thermoplastic material is a thermoplastic elastomer selected from the group including a thermoplastic rubber, a thermoplastic urethane, a thermoplastic olefin, and a thermoplastic vinyl. 4. The panel assembly of claim 3 wherein said thermoplastic vinyl is polyvinyl chloride. 5. The panel assembly as defined by claim 2, wherein said primer forming said layer includes an acrylic base and an epoxy component; said molded polymeric gasket including polyvinyl chloride. 6. The panel assembly as defined by claim 5, wherein said primer layer further includes a silane coupling agent. 7. The panel assembly as defined in claim 6 wherein said primer forming said layer has a ratio of epoxy component to silane coupling agent, by equivalent weight, of greater than 1.0. 8. The panel assembly as defined by claim 5, further comprising a silane coupling agent applied to said primer layer prior to molding of said gasket. 9. The panel assembly as defined by claim 2, wherein said gasket has a cross sectional profile of less than or equal to 0.75 inch wide and less than or equal to 1.0 inch thick. 10. The panel assembly as defined by claim 2, wherein said gasket is molded to said glass panel less than one quarter of an inch from said peripheral edge. 11. The panel assembly as defined by claim 5, wherein said polymeric gasket includes: a molded body having a first portion in intimate contact with said primer layer; and at least one flange extending from said body for spacing said panel from a mounting surface. 12. The panel assembly of claim 1 wherein said primer forming said layer has a transition temperature greater than 225.degree. F., and said gasket is molded when said primer layer is at a temperature equal to or greater than 225.degree. F. 13. The panel assembly of claim 1, further including an opaque ceramic coating bonded to said first surface of said panel and receiving said primer layer. 14. The panel assembly as defined by claim 1, wherein said polymeric gasket includes a molded body having a first portion in intimate contact with said primer layer and an opposite portion having a curved surface, said polymeric gasket extending from said panel assembly in a plane generally parallel to said first surface and for contact with the window opening. 15. The panel assembly as defined by claim 1, further including a guide at least partially encapsulated within said molded body and extending therefrom, said guide aligning said panel assembly with the window opening. 16. The panel assembly as defined by claim 1, further including a guide bonded to a second portion of said gasket opposite said first portion, and extending therefrom to align said panel assembly in the window opening. 17. The panel assembly as defined by claim 1, further including a mechanical fastener at least partially encapsulated within said polymeric gasket and projecting out of said polymeric gasket, said fastener adapted to mechanically assist in retaining said panel assembly in the window opening. 18. The panel assembly as defined by claim 1, further including an adhesive deposited on said panel for adhering said panel assembly in the window opening. 19. The panel assembly as defined by claim 18, wherein said adhesive includes a bead of adhesive extruded on said panel adjacent said polymeric gasket. 20. The panel assembly as defined by claim 18, wherein said adhesive includes an extruded bead on a surface of said polymeric gasket. 21. The panel assembly as defined by claim 1, further including a tape attached to a surface of said gasket opposite that bonded to said panel. 22. The panel assembly as defined by claim 1, further including: a second polymeric gasket molded about and encapsulating at least a portion of said peripheral edge of said glass panel, said second gasket having at least a first securing flange extending from said peripheral edge inwardly toward a center of said glass panel and a lip portion which extends away from said peripheral edge. 23. The panel assembly as defined by claim 22, including a primer layer on said portion of said glass panel on which said second gasket is molded; said second gasket further including a second securing flange on a surface of said sheet-like panel opposite said first securing flange, for retaining said second gasket on said peripheral edge of said glass panel. 24. The panel assembly as defined by claim 2, wherein said panel assembly is soaked for more than 600 hours in water having a temperature of 175.degree. F. (80.degree. C.). 25. The panel assembly as defined by claim 2, wherein said panel assembly is soaked for more than 1,000 hours in water having a temperature of 175.degree. F. (80.degree. C.). 26. The panel assembly of claim 2, wherein said panel assembly is soaked for at least 1,000 hours in water having a temperature of 140.degree. F. (40.degree. C.). 27. A vehicle panel assembly for sealing a window opening, comprising: a glass panel having a first and second generally opposing surfaces terminating in a peripheral edge; a primer layer applied to a portion of one of said first and second surfaces, said primer forming said layer selected from a group of primers having a primer transition temperature greater than or equal to 200.degree. F. where said primer layer achieves improved bonding of polymeric materials to a substrate; at least one thermoplastic polymeric gasket molded to said glass panel on said primer layer applied to one of said first and second surfaces, said glass panel including said primer layer being preheated to a temperature equal to or greater than said transition temperature prior to the molding of said gasket, the adhesive strength of said gasket when formed with a length of approximately one inch, a width of approximately three-fourths inch, and a thickness of approximately one-half inch being sufficient to withstand a shear force of more than 300 pounds at a rate of 25 millimeters per minute, and for a gasket having a width of approximately three-fourths inch, a thickness of approximately one-half inch, and a length sufficient to allow a free end to be grasped and pulled back at 180.degree. having a peel strength greater than 30 pounds per inch of width at a rate of 25 millimeters per minute after soaking for at least 250 hours in water having a temperature of at least 175.degree. F. (80.degree. C.). 28. The panel assembly as defined by claim 27, wherein said panel assembly is soaked for 600 hours in water having a temperature of 175.degree. F. (80.degree. C.). 29. The panel assembly as defined by claim 27, wherein said panel assembly is soaked for 1,000 hours in water having a temperature of 40.degree. C. 30. The panel assembly as defined in claim 27, wherein said polymeric gasket is molded onto said primer layer on said panel while said primer layer is at a temperature greater than said primer transition temperature whereby adhesion of said gasket to said panel is improved. 31. The panel assembly as defined in claim 30, wherein said gasket is made from polyvinyl chloride. 32. The panel assembly as defined in claim 31, wherein said adhesive primer layer includes an acrylic base and an epoxy component and has a transition temperature greater than 225.degree. F. 33. The panel assembly as defined in claim 32, wherein said primer forming said layer further includes a silane coupling agent. 34. The panel assembly as defined in claim 32, further including a silane coupling agent applied to said primer layer prior to molding of said gasket. 35. The panel assembly as defined in claim 33 wherein said primer forming said layer has a ratio of epoxy component to silane coupling agent, by equivalent weight, of greater than 1.0. 36. The panel assembly as defined in claim 27, wherein said polymeric gasket includes: a body having a first portion in intimate contact with said primer layer; and at least one flange extending from said body for spacing said panel from a mounting surface. 37. The panel assembly as defined in claim 27, further including a guide at least partially encapsulated by said gasket and extending therefrom and aligning said panel assembly in the window opening. 38. The panel assembly as defined in claim 27, further including a mechanical fastener at least partially encapsulated within said gasket and projecting out of said gasket, said fastener adapted to mechanically assist in retaining said panel assembly in the window opening. 39. The panel assembly as defined in claim 27, further including a second polymeric gasket of predetermined profile molded on and encapsulating at least a portion of said peripheral edge of said panel, said second polymeric gasket having a first and second securing flanges extending from said peripheral edge onto said first and second opposing surfaces. 40. The panel assembly as defined in claim 27, further including an adhesive deposited on said panel for adhering said panel assembly in the window opening. 41. The panel assembly as defined in claim 40, wherein said adhesive includes an adhesive bead extruded on said first surface adjacent said polymeric gasket. 42. The panel assembly as defined in claim 40, wherein said adhesive includes an adhesive bead extruded on a surface of said gasket. 43. The panel assembly as defined in claim 27, further including a tape attached to a surface of said gasket opposite that bonded to said panel. 44. A panel assembly for use as a window in a vehicle opening, comprising: a transparent glass panel having a first and second surfaces terminating in a peripheral edge; an opaque ceramic frit coating bonded to a predetermined portion of said first surface of said panel; a primer coating on at least a portion of said opaque ceramic frit coating, said primer forming said primer coating having a transition temperature of at least 200.degree. F. at or above which said primer coating exhibits improved adhesion properties for a polymeric material to said ceramic frit coating; a gasket of thermoplastic polymeric material molded on said first surface and said opaque ceramic frit coating and on said portion having said primer coating to produce a gasket on only one surface of said glass panel, said glass panel, ceramic frit coating and primer layer being preheated to a temperature equal to or greater than said transition temperature; said gasket molded on said primer coating after said glass panel, ceramic frit coating and primer coating have been heated to said transition temperature to bond said gasket with said panel, whereby a gasket having a length of about one inch, a width of about three-fourths inch, and a thickness of about one-half inch is bonded to said window panel with sufficient strength to withstand a shear force test of greater than 300 pounds at a rate of 25 millimeters per minute, and has a peel strength of greater than 30 pounds per inch of width at a rate of 25 millimeters per minute after soaking for more than 250 hours in water at least 175.degree. F. (80.degree. C.). 45. The panel assembly as defined in claim 44, wherein said panel assembly has been soaked for more than 600 hours. 46. The panel assembly as defined in claim 44, wherein said panel assembly has been soaked for more than 1,000 hours. 47. The panel assembly as defined in claim 44, wherein said gasket has cross sectional dimensions less than one inch wide and one inch thick. 48. The panel assembly as defined in claim 44 wherein said gasket includes a body having a first side bonded to said panel and a second side defining at least one flange for engaging the vehicle opening. 49. The panel assembly as defined in claim 48 further including at least one locating device at least partially encapsulated within said gasket for aligning the panel assembly in the vehicle opening. 50. The panel assembly as defined in claim 48 further including at least one mechanical fastener at least partially encapsulated by said gasket for mechanically assisting in retaining the panel assembly in the vehicle opening. 51. The panel assembly as defined in claim 48 further including a locating device adhered to said second side of said body for locating the panel assembly in the vehicle opening. 52. The panel assembly as defined in claim 51 wherein said locating device further includes a mechanical fastener for mechanically assisting in retaining the panel assembly in the vehicle opening. 53. The panel assembly as defined in claim 48 further including an adhesive on said second side of said body for bonding the panel assembly in the vehicle opening. 54. The panel assembly as defined in claim 44 further including an adhesive on said first surface of said panel for adhering the panel assembly in the vehicle opening. 55. The panel assembly as defined in claim 44 wherein said primer forming said coating includes an acrylic base and an epoxy component. 56. The panel assembly as defined in claim 55 wherein said primer forming said coating further includes a silane coupling agent added thereto. 57. The panel assembly as defined in claim 55 further including a silane coupling agent applied to said primer coating. 58. The panel assembly as defined in claim 56 wherein said primer forming said coating includes a ratio, by equivalent weight, of said epoxy component to said silane coupling agent of greater than one. 59. The panel assembly as defined in claim 55 wherein said primer is selected from the group consisting essentially of: B. F. Goodrich A-1100B and A-1167B, B. F. Goodrich Exp 541 and Exp 535, Donnelly A-47, and Donnelly A-57. 60. A window panel assembly for a vehicle, comprising: a glass panel having at least one surface; a ceramic coating adhered to said one surface; a primer coating applied to said ceramic coating; said primer coating having a transition temperature greater than or equal to 200.degree. F., at or above which improved adhesion qualities are exhibited for polymeric gaskets molded thereon at or above said transition temperature; said primer coating being heated on said glass panel and ceramic coating to a temperature at least equal to said transition temperature; and a polymeric gasket molded on said primer coating on a single surface of said glass panel when said primer coating is at a temperature at least equal to said primer transition temperature. 61. The panel assembly as defined in claim 60, wherein said ceramic coating is cleaned prior to the application of said primer coating. 62. The panel assembly as defined in claim 60, wherein the molding of said gasket onto said portion of said ceramic coating at said temperature and the heating of said primer coating to at least said primer transition temperature results in a bond between said panel and said gasket having an adhesion strength for such a gasket formed with a length of about one inch, a width of about three-fourths inch, and a thickness of about one-half inch sufficient to withstand a shear force on the order of 300 pounds at a rate of 25 millimeters per minute, and a peel strength for such a gasket having a width of about three-fourths inch, a thickness of about one-half inch, and a length sufficient to allow a free end to be grasped and pulled back 180.degree. greater than 30 pounds per inch of width at a rate of 25 millimeters per minute, after being immersed in at least 175.degree. F. (80.degree. C.) water for more than 250 hours. 63. The panel assembly as defined in claim 62, wherein said bond withstands said shear and peel tests after being immersed in 80.degree. C. water for more than 600 hours. 64. The panel assembly as defined in claim 62, wherein said bond withstands said shear and peel tests after being immersed in 80.degree. C. water for more than 1,000 hours. 65. The panel assembly as defined in claim 62 wherein the molding of said gasket on said panel is made in a mold apparatus having a mold cavity including a mold cavity fill pressure within the range of 15-25 psig, a mold cavity pack pressure within the range of 70-80 psig, and a mold cavity hold pressure within the range of 55-65 psig. 66. The panel assembly as defined in claim 62, wherein said gasket is molded in a mold apparatus at a fill time of less than 0.5 second, a packing rate of less than 3 seconds, a holding rate of less than 10 seconds, and a cure rate of less than 30 seconds. 67. The panel assembly as defined in claim 62, wherein said gasket is molded using polyvinyl chloride having an injection temperature measured at an injection nozzle of between 350.degree. and 410.degree. F. 68. A panel assembly for closing a vehicle window opening having a gasket on one surface thereof, comprising: a glass panel having first and second surfaces terminating in a peripheral edge; a primer layer applied to a portion of said first surface, said primer layer heated to a predetermined transition temperature equal to at least 200.degree. F. where improved adhesion properties are achieved for polymeric gaskets formed thereon; and a polymeric gasket formed on said portion of said first surface of said glass panel having said primer layer, said gasket formed on said primer layer when said primer layer is at a temperature equal to or greater than said transition temperature and bonded to said portion of said glass panel. 69. The panel assembly as defined by claim 68, wherein said polymeric gasket is a thermoplastic material. 70. The panel assembly as defined by claim 69, wherein said thermoplastic material is a thermoplastic elastomer selected from the group including a thermoplastic rubber, a thermoplastic urethane, a thermoplastic olefin, and a thermoplastic vinyl. 71. The panel assembly as defined by claim 70, wherein said thermoplastic vinyl is polyvinyl chloride. 72. A panel assembly for closing a vehicle window opening having a gasket on one surface thereof, comprising: a transparent glass panel having first and second surfaces terminating in a peripheral edge; a primer layer applied to said first surface, said primer forming said layer having a predetermined transition temperature of at least 200.degree. F. at or above which improved adhesion properties are achieved for polymeric gaskets formed thereon; and at least one polymeric gasket injection molded on said first surface of said glass panel having said primer layer, said gasket injection molded on and bonded to said primer layer when said primer layer has been heated to a temperature equal to or greater than said transition temperature of said primer. 73. The panel assembly as defined by claim 72, wherein said polymeric gasket is a thermoplastic material. 74. The panel assembly as defined by claim 73, wherein said thermoplastic material is a thermoplastic elastomer selected from the group including a thermoplastic rubber, a thermoplastic urethane, a thermoplastic olefin, and a thermoplastic vinyl. 75. The panel assembly as defined by claim 74, wherein said thermoplastic vinyl is polyvinyl chloride. 