A data processing device includes a data bus and a program bus, a data memory connected to the data bus and having data memory locations, and an electronic computation unit connected to the data bus and an accumulator connected to the electronic computation unit and to the data bus. A logic circuit is connected to the program bus for receiving instructions and connected to the data bus for executing logic operations in accordance with at least some of the instructions. The logic operations affect bits in at least one of the data memory locations independently of the electronic computation unit without affecting the accumulator. A control circuit sends instructions to the logic circuit on the program bus and to the electronic computation unit. Other devices, systems and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automotive vehicle, comprising: a chassis, axles and wheels; a braking system for said wheels; an automotive body defining a passenger compartment connected to said chassis; a suspension system connected between said automotive body and said chassis; an engine connected to said chassis for supplying motive power to at least one of said axles; an electronic automotive control system responsive to instructions defined by electrical bits; and a data processing device including, a data bus, a program bus, a data memory connected to said data bus and having data memory locations, an electronic computation unit, an accumulator connected to said electronic computation unit and to said data bus, a logic circuit connected to said program bus for receiving instructions and connected to said data bus for executing logic operations in accordance with at least some of the instructions, the logic operations affecting bits in at least one of said data memory locations independently of said electronic computation unit without affecting said accumulator, a control circuit for sending instructions to said logic circuit on said program bus and to said electronic computation unit, and an interface for supplying selected bits to said electronic automotive control. 2. The automotive vehicle of claim 1 further comprising a sensor and wherein said electronic automotive control includes an anti-skid unit responsive to said sensor and connected to said braking system. 3. The automotive vehicle of claim 1 further comprising a motion sensor and wherein said electronic automotive control includes an active suspension control unit responsive to said motion sensor and connected to said suspension system. 4. The automotive vehicle of claim 1 further comprising an engine status sensor and wherein said electronic automotive control includes an engine control responsive to said engine status sensor and connected to said engine. 