This invention relates generally to the field of cement, especially cement for underwater application. The invention provides a composition for preparing cement that solidifies underwater comprising exothermic micro particles and base cement. Exothermic micro particles are less than about two thousand two hundred and fifty micrometers in diameter and can be, for example, calcium chloride. The invention further provides a kit for preparing cement that solidifies underwater comprising exothermic micro particles in a container and base cement. The invention provides a method of underwater construction or repair comprising mixing a composition comprising exothermic micro particles and base cement with water and applying the composition to an underwater structure where the composition solidifies. The composition, kit and method are particularly well suited for swimming pool repair.
Claims We claim: 1. A composition for preparing cement that solidifies underwater comprising exothermic micro particles and base cement, wherein the exothermic micro particles are less than about 2,250 micrometers in diameter and are present in an amount sufficient to solidify the cement underwater. 2. The composition of claim 1 wherein the exothermic micro particles are selected from the group consisting of calcium chloride, calcium nitrate, aluminum chloride and mixtures thereof. 3. The composition of claim, 2 wherein the exothermic micro particles are calcium chloride. 4. The composition of claim 1 wherein the exothermic micro particles are desiccated. 5. The composition of claim 1 wherein the exothermic micro particles are calcium chloride and the base cement is riverside white. 6. The composition of claim 1 further comprising a coloring agent. 7. The composition of claim 1, wherein the exothermic micro particles are less than about 1,875 micrometers in diameter. 8. The composition of claim 1, wherein the exothermic micro particles are less than about 1,500 micrometers in diameter. 9. The composition of claim 1, wherein the exothermic micro particles are less than about 1,250 micrometers in diameter. 10. A kit for preparing cement that solidifies underwater comprising exothermic micro particles in a water impermeable container and base cement, wherein the exothermic micro particles are less than about 2,250 micrometers in diameter and are present in an amount sufficient to solidify the cement underwater. 11. The kit of claim 10 wherein the exothermic micro particles are selected from the group consisting of calcium chloride, calcium nitrate, aluminum chloride and mixtures thereof. 12. The kit of claim 10 wherein the water impermeable container is a vacuum sealed package. 13. The kit of claim 12 wherein the exothermic micro particles are desiccated. 14. The kit of claim 10, wherein the exothermic micro particles are less than about 1,875 micrometers in diameter. 15. The kit of claim 10, wherein the exothermic micro particles are less than about 1,500 micrometers diameter. 16. The kit of claim 10, wherein the exothermic micro particles are less than about 1,250 micrometers diameter. 17. A method of underwater construction and repair, comprising the steps of: mixing a composition comprising exothermic micro particles, base cement and water, wherein the exothermic micro particles are less than about 2,250 micrometers in diameter and are present in an amount sufficient to solidify the cement underwater; and applying the composition to an underwater structure, wherein the composition solidifies in contact with environmental water. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the exothermic micro particles are selected from the group consisting of calcium chloride, calcium nitrate, aluminum chloride, and mixtures thereof. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the exothermic micro particles are desiccated. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the exothermic micro particles are calcium chloride, the base cement is riverside white and the underwater structure is a swimming pool. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein the exothermic micro particles are less than about 1,875 micrometers in diameter. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein the exothermic micro particles are less than about 1,500 micrometers in diameter. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein the exothermic micro particles are less than about 1,250 micrometers in diameter. 