An apparatus and method which provides a suitable location for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds. The apparatus consists of: a reservoir block having a plurality of wells; a plurality of reaction cubes, usually gas dispersion tubes, having filters on their lower ends; a holder block, having a plurality of apertures; and a manifold, which may have ports to allow introduction/maintenance of a controlled environment. The manifold top wall has apertures and a detachable place with identical apertures. The apparatus is constructed from materials which will accommodate heating, cooling, agitation, or corrosive reagents. Gaskets are placed between the components. Rods or clamps are provided for fastening the components together. Apparatus operation involves placing the filters on the lower ends of the reaction tubes in the reservoir block wells, and the upper ends passing through the holder block apertures and into the manifold. The apparatus provides in excess of 1 mg of each product with structural knowledge and control over each compound. The apparatus can be adapted to manual, semiautomatic or fully automatic performance. Using the apparatus a series of building blocks are covalently attached to a solid support. These building blocks are then modified by covalently adding additional different building blocks or chemically modifying some existing functionality until the penultimate structure is achieved. This is then cleaved from the solid support by another chemical reaction into the solution within the well yielding an array of newly synthesized individual compounds, which after postreaction modification, if necessary, are suitable for testing for activity.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter device, a reservoir member having means for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes, a manifold member having a central cavity for enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, and means for equalizing pressure differentials within said apparatus, wherein said means for equalizing comprises at least one pressure equalization aperture located on at least one of said reaction tubes. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein at least one pressure equalization aperture is located on each of said reaction tubes. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said apertures are located above the filter devices on said lower ends of said reaction tubes. 4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said aperture has a diameter from 100-2000 .mu.m. 5. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising first sealing means for providing a seal between said holder member and said reservoir member, second sealing means for providing a seal between said holder member and said manifold, and fastening means for fastening together said reservoir member, holder member and manifold. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein fastening means comprises a first fastening mechanism for fastening together said reservoir member and said holder member, and a second fastening mechanism for fastening together said holder member and said manifold member. 7. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, a filter member positioned on said lower ends of each of said reaction tubes, a reservoir member, said reservoir member having a plurality of reaction wells, one of said reaction wells positioned to receive a filter member on the lower end of one of said reaction tubes, a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member, said holder member having means for holding said plurality of reaction tubes therein, a manifold member removably positioned on said holder member, said manifold member enclosing said upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, first sealing means for sealing said holder member to said reservoir member, second sealing means for sealing said manifold to said holder member, fastening means for securing together said holder member, reservoir member and manifold member, and pressure equalizing means for equalizing pressure differentials within said apparatus, wherein said means for equalizing comprises at least one pressure equalization aperture located on at least one of said reaction tubes. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7 wherein said pressure equalizing means comprises at least one aperture in each of said reaction tubes. 9. The apparatus as set forth in claim 8 wherein said apertures are positioned above said filter members. 10. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter device, a reservoir member having means for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes, a manifold member having a central cavity for enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, and means for equalizing pressure differentials within said apparatus, wherein said means for equalizing comprises at least one capillary tube located substantially adjacent to and substantially parallel to at least one of said reaction tubes, said capillary tube extending from said reservoir member, through said holder member and into said manifold member. 11. The apparatus as set forth in claim 10 further comprising: first sealing means for providing a seal between said holder member and said reservoir member, second sealing means for providing a seal between said holder member and said manifold, and fastening means for fastening together said reservoir member, holder member and manifold. 12. The apparatus as set forth in claim 10, wherein fastening means comprises a first fastening mechanism for fastening together said reservoir member and said holder member, and a second fastening mechanism for fastening together said holder member and said manifold member. 13. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter device, a reservoir member having reaction wells for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes, a manifold member having a central cavity for enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, and a means for equalizing pressure differentials separately and independently between each of said reaction tubes and each of said corresponding reaction wells. 14. The apparatus as set forth in claim 13, wherein said means for equalizing pressure differentials comprises at least one aperture in said reaction tubes adjacent said filter member. 15. The apparatus as set forth in claim 13, wherein said means for equalizing pressure differentials comprises a capillary tube positioned adjacent said reaction tubes. 16. The apparatus as set forth in claim 13, wherein said means for equalizing pressure differentials comprises a tubular jacket member positioned concentric with and outside of said reaction tubes. 