A system for a mobile vehicle such as a remotely controlled robot, for deploying and retrieving cable into the environment external to the vehicle. The system includes a frame, a cable reel mounting device for a cable storage reel having cable wound thereon for rotatable motion. A rotatable electric/fiber optic joint is provided for coupling one end of the cable to the vehicle. The device has a mechanism for feeding the cable on and off the cable storage reel and for guiding the unwound cable from the vehicle. A sensor senses the tension in the cable in any direction in an arc of 360.degree. as the cable exits a cable exit opening. An electronic circuit receives a signal from the sensor related to the tension in the cable for controlling the feeding of cable so as to maintain a preset tension or no tension in the cable. Preferably, the tension sensor is a strain gauge. The system can be attached to any mobile vehicle, e.g. a robot, requiring a cable for control, power and/or communication. It can allow two way transmission of voice, data, video, power and commands through all speeds, directions, motions and turns, including pivot turns, of the vehicle. The system can be used for deploying and retracting fiber optic, metallic or combination cables.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus adapted to be mounted on a mobile vehicle for deploying and retrieving cable from the vehicle into the environment external to the vehicle comprising: a frame for mounting to the vehicle; receiving means on the frame adapted to receive a cable storage reel having cable wound thereon for rotatable motion, the cable having a first end near the center of the reel, a wound portion of cable on the reel and an unwound portion of cable that extends from the reel; coupling means for coupling the first end of the cable to the vehicle; feeding means for feeding the cable on and off the cable storage reel; guiding means including a cable exit area for guiding the unwound cable from the vehicle into the environment in any direction defined by a 360.degree. arc around the cable exit area; sensing means for sensing the tension in the unwound cable in any direction defined by the 360.degree. arc around the cable exit area; and controlling means coupled to the sensing means receiving a signal from the sensing means related to the tension in the unwound cable for bi-directionally controlling said feeding means so as to maintain a preset tension in the unwound cable. 2. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein the preset tension comprises substantially zero tension. 3. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein said coupling means for coupling the first end of the cable to the vehicle comprises a rotating joint for providing communication between the cable wound on said reel and the vehicle. 4. The apparatus recited in claim 3, wherein the rotating joint comprises means for providing at least one of electrical and fiber optic communication with said cable on said cable reel. 5. The apparatus recited in claim 3, further comprising releasable engaging means for mounting said cable reel to said drive means and to said rotating joint. 6. The apparatus recited in claim 3, further comprising a hinged conduit supporting said rotating joint and for guiding cable connected to said rotating joint to the vehicle. 7. The apparatus recited in claim 6, wherein the hinged conduit is pivotable about a hinge point so as to swing away from said cable reel to allow loading of said cable reel. 8. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein the sensing means comprises a strain gauge for generating a signal related to the amount of tension in the cable. 9. The apparatus recited in claim 8, wherein the sensing means for sensing further comprises: a member having an exit opening defining the exit area for the cable, the opening having a perimeter, the cable being provided through the opening so that it can come into contact with the perimeter of the opening over 360.degree. of the perimeter of the opening; said cable thereby exerting a force on the perimeter of the opening related to the tension in the cable, the strain gauge being coupled to the member having the exit opening and providing a signal related to the force applied and thereby to the tension in the cable. 10. The apparatus recited in claim 9, wherein the member having the exit opening comprises a tubular conduit, said tubular conduit being coupled to said strain gauge. 11. The apparatus recited in claim 10, wherein said tubular conduit moves when said cable applies a force thereto, thereby flexing said strain gauge and generating a signal related to the tension in the cable. 12. The apparatus recited in claim 11, further comprising electronic means for amplifying any minute signal generated by the strain gauge. 13. The apparatus recited in claim 11, further comprising means for limiting movement of said tubular conduit. 14. The apparatus recited in claim 13, wherein said means for limiting movement comprises a plate having an opening larger than an outside diameter of the tubular conduit with the tubular conduit extending through said plate opening, and thereby defining a clearance between an inner surface of said plate opening and said tubular conduit. 15. The apparatus recited in claim 14, further comprising a fixed mounting support mounted to said frame, the strain gauge being coupled between said mounting support and said tubular conduit. 16. The apparatus recited in claim 15, further comprising a bracket fastened to said mounting support and extending downwardly adjacent said strain gauge and tubular conduit and being fastened to said plate having said opening larger than the outside diameter of said tubular conduit, thereby securing said plate in position around said tubular conduit. 17. The apparatus recited in claim 8, wherein the feeding means for feeding cable on and off the cable storage reel comprises: a drive means comprising a drive motor for driving the cable storage reel in rotation; and a pair of drive rollers for receiving the cable from the storage reel between surfaces of the rollers, at least one of the rollers being driven by a roller drive motor. 18. The apparatus recited in claim 17, wherein the controlling means comprises: circuit means electrically coupled to the strain gauge for controlling the rotation of the drive means and for controlling the rotation of the drive rollers so as to maintain the preset tension in the unwound cable. 19. The apparatus recited in claim 17, further comprising a reducing transmission between said drive means and said means adapted to receive the cable reel, and further comprising a reducing transmission between said roller drive motor and at least one of said drive rollers. 20. The apparatus recited in claim 17, wherein one of said drive rollers is pivotable against a tension force to bias the pivotable drive roller against said other drive roller and to allow insertion of the cable between the drive rollers. 21. The apparatus recited in claim 20, further comprising means for centralizing the cable through the drive rollers. 22. The apparatus recited in claim 21, wherein the centralizing means comprises a centralizing loop. 23. The apparatus recited in claim 17, wherein the cable reel drive means is turned on only to retrieve cable and is not turned on when cable is deployed. 24. The apparatus recited in claim 23, wherein the roller drive motor is bi-directional so as to turn in a first direction to deploy cable and to turn in a second opposite direction to retrieve cable. 25. The apparatus recited in claim 23, wherein the cable reel drive means is controlled so as to maintain a prescribed tension in the cable between the cable reel and the drive rollers during cable retrieval. 26. The apparatus recited in claim 17, further comprising means for guiding said cable onto said cable reel so as to achieve a level wind of said cable on the cable reel. 27. The apparatus recited in claim 26, wherein said guiding means comprises a cable guide reciprocally movable across the width of said cable reel. 28. The apparatus recited in claim 27, wherein said guiding means further comprises: a camshaft; a lever arm having first and second ends, the first end coupled to said cable guide; the lever arm pivoting about an intermediate pivot point, the second end of said lever arm being coupled to said camshaft, said camshaft comprising a continuous bi-directional thread; said camshaft being rotated by said drive means. 29. The apparatus recited in claim 28, further comprising a cam follower engaging said camshaft and coupled to said lever arm at said second end, thereby causing said lever arm to reciprocate back and forth along said camshaft about said intermediate pivot point as said cam follower follows the bi-directional thread. 30. The apparatus recited in claim 28, further comprising a reducing transmission between said drive means and said camshaft. 31. The apparatus recited in claim 28, wherein the lever arm is coupled to the flaking loop at the first end through a slotted slidable joint and the lever arm is coupled to the cam follower at the second end through a slotted slidable joint. 32. The apparatus recited in claim 28, wherein the intermediate pivot point of the lever arm is adjustable to accommodate cable reels of varying widths. 33. The apparatus recited in claim 32, wherein the pivot point is adjustable along two axes to accommodate varying cable reel widths and to maintain a fixed starting point against a cable reel flange regardless of cable reel width. 34. A method for deploying and retrieving cable from a mobile vehicle into the environment external to the vehicle comprising: mounting a cable storage reel for rotatable motion on a frame coupled to the vehicle, the cable having a first end near the center of the reel, a wound portion of cable on the reel and an unwound portion of cable that extends from the reel; coupling the first end of the cable to the vehicle; feeding cable on and off the cable storage reel; guiding the unwound cable from the vehicle from a cable exit area into the environment in any direction defined by a 360.degree. arc around the cable exit area; sensing the tension in the unwound cable in any direction defined by the 360.degree. arc around the cable exit area; and receiving a signal related to the tension in the unwound cable and bi-directionally controlling said feeding on and off of cable so as to maintain a preset tension in the unwound cable. 35. The method recited in claim 34 wherein the preset tension comprises substanitally zero tension. 36. The method recited in claim 34, wherein said step of coupling the first end of the cable to the vehicle comprises providing a rotating joint for providing communication between the cable wound on said reel and the vehicle. 37. The method recited in claim 34, further comprising guiding said cable onto said cable reel so as to achieve a level wind of said cable on the cable reel. 38. The method recited in claim 37, wherein said step of guiding comprises reciprocally moving a cable guide across the width of said cable reel. 39. The method recited in claim 34, wherein the step of sensing comprises using a strain gauge to generate a signal related to the amount of tension in the cable. 40. The method recited in claim 39, wherein the step of sensing further comprises: providing a member having an exit opening defining the cable exit area for the cable, the opening having a perimeter, the cable being provided through the opening so that it can come into contact with the perimeter of the opening over 360.degree. of the perimeter of the opening; said cable thereby exerting a force on the perimeter of the opening related to the tension in the cable, the strain gauge being coupled to the member having the exit opening and providing a signal related to the force applied and thereby to the tension in the cable. 41. The method recited in claim 40, further comprising applying a force with said cable due to movement of the vehicle to the member having the exit opening to move said member, thereby flexing said strain gauge and generating a signal related to the tension in the cable. 42. The method recited in claim 41, further comprising electronically amplifying any minute signal generated by the strain gauge. 43. The method recited in claim 41, further comprising limiting movement of said member having the exit opening. 44. The method recited in claim 43, further comprising mounting said strain gauge between said frame and said member having the exit opening. 45. The method recited in claim 39, wherein the step of feeding cable on and off the cable storage reel comprises: driving the cable storage reel in rotation; and receiving the cable from the storage reel between surfaces of two drive rollers. 46. The method recited in claim 45, wherein the step of controlling comprises: controlling the rotation of the cable storage reel and controlling the rotation of the drive rollers so as to maintain the preset tension or no tension in the cable. 47. The method recited in claim 45, further comprising centralizing the cable through the drive rollers. 48. The method recited in claim 45, further comprising providing a drive means for the cable reel and turning on the drive means for the cable reel only to retrieve cable. 49. The method recited in claim 48, further comprising providing a hi-directional drive means for the drive rollers and turning the drive rollers in a first direction to deploy cable and turning the drive rollers in a second opposite direction to retrieve cable. 50. The method recited in claim 48, further comprising controlling the cable reel drive means so as to maintain a prescribed tension in the cable between the cable reel and the drive rollers during cable retrieval. 51. Apparatus adapted to be mounted on a mobile vehicle for deploying and retrieving cable from the vehicle into the environment external to the vehicle comprising: a frame for mounting to the vehicle; a reel rotating member mounted on the frame adapted to receive a cable storage reel having cable wound thereon for rotatable motion, the cable having a first end near the center of the reel, a wound portion of cable on the reel and an unwound portion of cable that extends from the reel; a rotating joint for coupling the first end of the cable to the vehicle; a first drive motor for feeding the cable the on and off the cable storage reel; a cable exit opening for guiding the unwound cable from the vehicle into the environment in any direction defined by a 360.degree. arc around the cable exit opening; a sensor sensing the tension in the unwound cable in any direction defined by the 360.degree. arc around the cable exit opening; and an electronic circuit coupled to the sensor receiving a signal from the sensor related to the tension in the unwound cable for bi-directionally controlling said drive motor so as to maintain a preset tension in the unwound cable. 52. The apparatus recited in claim 51 wherein the preset tension comprises substantially zero tension. 53. The apparatus recited in claim 51, further comprising a guiding member for laying said cable onto said cable reel so as to achieve a level wind of said cable on the cable reel. 54. The apparatus recited in claim 53, wherein said guiding member comprises a cable guide reciprocally movable across the width of said cable reel. 55. The apparatus recited in claim 54, wherein said guiding member further comprises: a camshaft; a lever arm having first and second ends, the first end coupled to said cable guide; the lever arm pivoting about an intermediate pivot point, the second end of said lever arm being coupled to said camshaft, said camshaft comprising a continuous bi-directional thread; said camshaft being rotated by said second drive motor. 56. The apparatus recited in claim 55, further comprising a cam follower engaging said camshaft and coupled to said lever arm at said second end, thereby causing said lever arm to reciprocate back and forth along said camshaft about said intermediate pivot point as said cam follower follows the bi-directional thread. 57. The apparatus recited in claim 55, further comprising a reducing transmission between said second drive motor and said camshaft. 58. The apparatus recited in claim 55, wherein the intermediate pivot point of the lever arm is adjustable to accommodate cable reels of varying widths. 59. The apparatus recited in claim 58, wherein the lever arm is coupled to the flaking loop at the first end through a slotted slidable joint and the lever arm is coupled to the cam follower at the second end through a slotted slidable joint. 60. The apparatus recited in claim 58, wherein the pivot point is adjustable along two axes to accommodate varying cable reel widths and to maintain a fixed starting point against a cable reel flange regardless of cable reel width. 61. The apparatus recited in claim 51, wherein the sensor comprises a strain gauge for generating a signal related to the amount of tension in the cable. 62. The apparatus recited in claim 61, wherein the cable exit opening comprises: a member having said exit opening defining an exit area for the cable, the opening having a perimeter, the cable being provided through the opening so that it can come into contact with the perimeter of the opening over 360.degree. of the perimeter of the opening; said cable thereby exerting a force on the perimeter of the opening related to the tension in the cable, the strain gauge being coupled to the member having the exit opening and providing a signal related to the force applied and thereby to the tension in the cable. 63. The apparatus recited in claim 62, wherein the member having the exit opening comprises a tubular conduit, said tubular conduit being coupled to said strain gauge. 64. The apparatus recited in claim 63, wherein said tubular conduit moves when said cable applies a force thereto, thereby flexing said strain gauge and generating a signal related to the tension in the cable. 65. The apparatus recited in claim 64, wherein said electronic circuit comprises an amplifier for amplifying any minute signal generated by the strain gauge. 66. The apparatus recited in claim 64, further comprising a member limiting movement of said tubular conduit. 67. The apparatus recited in claim 66, wherein said member limiting movement comprises a plate having an opening larger than an outside diameter of the tubular conduit with the tubular conduit extending through said plate opening, and thereby defining a clearance between an inner surface of said plate opening and said tubular conduit. 68. The apparatus recited in claim 67, further comprising a fixed mounting support mounted to said frame, the strain gauge being coupled between said mounting support and said tubular conduit. 69. The apparatus recited in claim 68, further comprising a bracket fastened to said mounting support and extending downwardly adjacent said strain gauge and tubular conduit and being fastened to said plate having said opening larger than the outside diameter of said tubular conduit, thereby securing said plate in position around said tubular conduit. 70. The apparatus recited in claim 61, further comprising: a second drive motor for driving the cable storage reel in rotation; and a pair of drive rollers for receiving the cable from the storage reel between surfaces of the rollers, at least one of the rollers driven by said first drive motor. 71. The apparatus recited in claim 70, further comprising a reducing transmission between said second drive motor and said reel rotating member, and further comprising a reducing transmission between said first drive motor and at least one of said drive rollers. 72. The apparatus recited in claim 70, wherein the electronic circuit comprises: a circuit electrically coupled to the strain gauge for controlling the rotation of the first drive motor, thereby controlling the rotation of the drive rollers so as to maintain the preset tension or no tension in the unwound cable. 73. The apparatus recited in claim 72, wherein the electronic circuit further controls the rotation of the second drive motor. 74. The apparatus recited in claim 70, wherein one of said drive rollers is pivotable against a tension force to bias the pivotable drive roller against said other drive roller and to allow insertion of the cable between the drive rollers. 75. The apparatus recited in claim 74, further comprising a centralizing member centering the cable through the drive rollers. 76. The apparatus recited in claim 75, wherein the centralizing member comprises a centralizing loop. 77. The apparatus recited in claim 70, wherein the second drive motor is turned on only to retrieve cable and is not turned on when cable is deployed. 78. The apparatus recited in claim 77, wherein the first drive motor is bi-directional so as to turn in a first direction to deploy cable and to turn in a second opposite direction to retrieve cable. 79. The apparatus recited in claim 77, wherein the second drive motor is controlled so as to maintain a prescribed tension in the cable between the cable reel and the drive rollers during cable retrieval. 80. The apparatus recited in claim 70, wherein said rotating joint provides communication between the cable wound on said reel and the vehicle. 81. The apparatus recited in claim 80, wherein the rotating joint provides electrical and/or fiber optic communication with said cable on said cable reel. 82. The apparatus recited in claim 80, further comprising releasable engaging fasteners for mounting said cable reel to said second drive motor and to said rotating joint. 83. The apparatus recited in claim 80, further comprising a hinged conduit supporting said rotating joint and guiding cable connected to said rotating joint to the vehicle. 84. The apparatus recited in claim 83, wherein the hinged conduit is pivotable about a hinge point so as to swing away from said cable reel to allow loading of said cable reel. 