A method for forming conductive interconnect bumps, such as solder bumps, on bond pads on a substrate. The method includes conductive discs and a connecting member formed between two adjacent conductive discs. The discs and connecting member are then placed over the bond pads and heat is applied so that the conductive discs and the connecting member combine to form isolated interconnect bumps. A polymer backsheet is used for support.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for forming conductive material on bond pads on a substrate comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member with a backsheet, wherein each of said plurality of conductive discs is connected to at least another of said plurality of conductive discs by said connecting member; placing said plurality of conductive discs over said bond pads on said substrate; and heating said plurality of conductive discs and said connecting member, wherein said backsheet is removed prior to heating, so that said plurality of conductive discs and said connecting member combine to form isolated hemispherical interconnect bumps on said bond pads. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member having a surface with a thin layer of flux formed on said surface. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing a plurality of solder discs and a connecting solder member. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing said plurality of conductive discs and said connecting member wherein said connecting member is comprised of two ends having a width and a central portion having a width, said width of said two ends being greater than said width of said central portion. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing said plurality of conductive discs and said connecting member having a thickness, said thickness being approximately 0.025 to 0.375 mm. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing said plurality of conductive discs wherein each conductive disc has a diameter, said diameter being in a range of 0.125 to 1.0 mm. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing said plurality of conductive discs, wherein one of said plurality of conductive discs has a first center and an adjacent conductive disc of said plurality of conductive discs has a second center, a distance between said first center and said second center being 0.25 to 2.5 mm. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein each conductive disc of said plurality of conductive discs has a diameter and said connecting member has a length and a width and said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member wherein said length is approximately 0.3 to 0.7 times said diameter of each conductive disc and said width is approximately 0.1 to 0.4 times said diameter of each conductive disc. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein each conductive disc of said plurality of conductive discs has a diameter and said bond pads have a diameter and wherein said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing a plurality of conductive discs wherein each conductive disc of said diameter is approximately 1.2 to 1.8 times larger than said diameter of said bond pads. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said connecting member has a length and said bond pads have a diameter, and wherein said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing said connecting member wherein said length of said connecting member is approximately 0.5 to 0.9 times said diameter of said bond pads. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said plurality of conductive discs have a thickness and said bond pads have a diameter, and said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing said plurality of conductive discs wherein said thickness of said plurality of conductive discs is 0.2 to 0.6 times said diameter of said bond pads. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein said substrate is a circuit board. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said substrate is a semiconductor substrate. 14. A method for forming interconnect bumps on bond pads on a substrate comprising the steps of: providing a preform sheet having a surface and comprised of a plurality of conductive discs, a connecting member formed between one of said plurality of conductive discs and at least another of said plurality of conductive discs; attaching said preform sheet to a backsheet; placing said preform sheet over said bond pads on said substrate; removing said backsheet from said preform sheet prior to heating; and heating said preform sheet so that said plurality of conductive discs and said connecting member combine to form isolated interconnect hemispherical bumps on said bond pads. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing a said connecting member with two ends having a width and a central portion having a width, said width of said two ends being greater than said width of said central portion. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein each conductive disc of said plurality of conductive discs has a diameter and said connecting member has a length and a width and said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member wherein said length is approximately 0.3 to 0.7 times said diameter of each conductive disc and said width is approximately 0.1 to 0.4 times said diameter. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein each conductive disc of said plurality of conductive discs has a diameter and said bond pads have a diameter and wherein said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing said plurality of conductive discs wherein said diameter of each conductive disc of said plurality of conductive discs is approximately 1.2 to 1.8 times larger than said diameter of said bond pads. 18. The method of claim 14 wherein said connecting member has a length and said bond pads have a diameter, and wherein said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing said connecting member wherein said length of said connecting member is approximately 0.5 to 0.9 times said diameter of said bond pads. 19. The method of claim 14 wherein said plurality of conductive discs have a thickness and said bond pads have a diameter, and said step of providing a plurality of conductive discs and a connecting member is comprised of providing said plurality of conductive discs wherein said thickness of said plurality of conductive discs is 0.2 to 0.6 times said diameter of said bond pads. 