A C-type welding gun capable of accurately operating irrespective of the posture of the C-type welding gun without forcibly pressing electrodes to a workpiece and without considering thickness of the workpiece, wear of electrodes, etc. The C-type welding gun includes two servomotors attached to a housing, a C-shaped arm fixed to the housing and a movable arm provided in the housing. A mechanism for converting the rotation of the output shaft of one servomotor into the reciprocal motion of the movable arm is housed in the housing. A mechanism for converting the rotation of the output shaft of the other servomotor into the reciprocal motion of the C-shaped arm is provided between the wrist of the robot and the housing. Both the servomotors are simultaneously actuated while the other servomotor is stopped in response to the signal representing the contact of the electrode of the C-shaped arm to the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A welding gun configured to be positioned against a workpiece by a robotic arm, said welding gun including: a housing configured for attachment to the robotic arm; a curved arm attached to said housing, said curved arm having an end spaced from said housing and having an electrode at said end directed toward said housing; a movable arm attached to said housing, said movable arm having an electrode attached thereto, said movable arm electrode being directed toward said curved arm electrode; a first servomotor attached to said housing, said first servomotor having a drive mechanism for reciprocally moving said movable arm towards said curved arm electrode; a second servomotor attached to said housing, said second servomotor having a drive mechanism for reciprocally moving said housing and said curved arm relative to the robotic arm; a signal generator for selectively generating a signal when said curved arm electrode contacts the workpiece; and a controller configured to receive said signal produced by said signal generator, to simultaneously actuate said first and second servomotors so that said electrodes simultaneously approach the workpiece and to stop said actuation of said second servomotor in response to receipt of said signal from said signal generator. 2. The welding gun of claim 1, wherein said electrodes are configured to concurrently contact the workpiece. 3. The welding gun of claim 1, wherein the electrodes are configured so that said movable arm electrode contacts the workpiece after said curved arm electrode contacts the workpiece and said first servomotor is sensitive to the pressure of said movable arm electrode contacting workpiece and is configured to stop actuation when said movable arm electrode contacts the workpiece. 4. The welding gun of claim 1, wherein said curved arm has a generally C-shaped profile. 5. The welding gun of claim 1, wherein said second servomotor is configured to function as said signal generator to generate said signal to said controller when said curved arm electrode contacts the workpiece. 6. The welding gun of claim 5, wherein said electrodes are configured to concurrently contact the workpiece. 7. The welding gun of claim 5, wherein the electrodes are configured so that said movable arm electrode contacts the workpiece after said curved arm electrode contacts the workpiece and said first servomotor is sensitive to the pressure of said movable arm electrode contacting workpiece and is configured to stop actuation when said movable arm electrode contacts the workpiece. 8. The welding gun of claim 5, wherein said curved arm has a generally C-shaped profile. 