A compact assembly of two magnetic couplers for coupling two coaxial angular shaft movements through a vacuum barrier. Each coupler includes two concentric rings of radially oriented magnets, arranged to provide magnetic coupling in a radial direction between corresponding magnets in the rings. A relatively large number of magnets in each ring ensures stiff coupling between rings, but unwanted circumferential coupling between adjacent magnets in each ring is minimized by the presence of a flux ring associated with each ring of magnets. The flux rings provide a return path for radial magnetic flux lines between the rings. Cross-coupling between the couplers is minimized by the presence of a magnetic shield on each ring of magnets. The shields permit the couplers to be located in close proximity on their common axis of rotation. For corrosion resistance, each ring of magnets on the vacuum side of the barrier is housed in a stainless steel enclosure.
Claims I claim: 1. A mechanism for driving a first member and a second member, said mechanism comprising: a first magnetic coupler coupled to a first motor and the first member for rotating the first member in response to activation of the first motor; a second magnetic coupler coupled to a second motor and the second member for rotating the second member in response to activation of the second motor; a shield positioned between the first magnetic coupler and the second magnetic coupler to reduce magnetic coupling between the first magnetic coupler and second magnetic coupler. 2. The drive mechanism defined in claim 1 further comprising a mechanism coupled to the first magnetic coupler to return flux lines passing between aligned pairs of primary magnets and secondary magnets. 3. The drive mechanism defined in claim 2 wherein the mechanism comprises an annular flux ring. 4. The drive mechanism defined in claim 1 wherein the shield comprises a flux path. 5. The drive mechanism defined in claim 1 wherein the shield comprises: a first annular shield coupled to the first magnetic coupler between the first magnetic coupler and the second magnetic coupler; and a second annular shield coupled to the second magnetic coupler between the first magnetic coupler and the second magnetic coupler. 6. A mechanism for driving a first member and a second member, said mechanism comprising: a first magnetic coupler coupled to a first motor and the first member for rotating the first member in response to activation of the first motor, wherein the first magnetic coupler comprises a first primary ring of magnets and a first secondary ring of magnets, each ring containing a plurality of radially oriented magnets, wherein magnets in the first primary ring are magnetically coupled in a radial direction to corresponding magnets in the first secondary ring; a second magnetic coupler coupled to a second motor and the second member for rotating the second member in response to activation of the second motor, wherein the second magnetic coupler comprises a second primary ring of magnets and a second secondary ring of magnets, each ring containing a plurality of radially oriented magnets, wherein magnets in the second primary ring are magnetically coupled in a radial direction to corresponding magnets in the second secondary ring; a shield coupled to the first magnetic coupler and the second magnetic coupler to prevent magnetic coupling between magnets in rings of the first magnetic coupler and magnets in rings of the second magnetic coupler; a first pair of annular rings coupled to magnets in the first magnetic coupler to strengthen magnetic coupling between the first primary ring and the first secondary ring of the first magnetic coupler; and a second pair of annular rings coupled to magnets in the second magnetic coupler to strengthen magnetic coupling between the second primary ring and the second secondary ring of the second magnetic coupler. 7. The drive mechanism defined in claim 6 wherein the shield comprises: a first annular magnetic shield connected to magnets in the first magnetic coupler; and a second annular magnetic shield connected to magnets in the second magnetic coupler. 8. The drive mechanism defined in claim 6 wherein the first pair of annular rings and the second pair of annular rings return flux lines passing between aligned pairs of primary magnets and secondary magnets. 9. The drive mechanism defined in claim 8 wherein the first pair of annular rings and the second pair of annular rings comprise annular flux rings. 10. The drive mechanism defined in claim 6 wherein the shield comprises a pair of flux paths. 11. A mechanism for driving a first member and a second member, said mechanism comprising: a first magnetic coupler coupled to a first motor and the first member for rotating the first member in response to activation of the first motor; a second magnetic coupler coupled to a second motor and the second member for rotating the second member in response to activation of the second motor; a shield positioned between the first magnetic coupler and the second magnetic coupler to provide a magnetic reluctance substantially less than that of an area between adjacent magnet rings of the first magnetic coupler and second magnetic coupler. 12. The mechanism defined in claim 11 wherein the area comprises a vacuum path. 13. The mechanism defined in claim 11 wherein the area comprises an air path. 14. A drive mechanism for rotating a first member, said drive mechanism comprising: a first motor; a first magnetic coupler coupled to the first motor for magnetically coupling rotation motion generated in response to activation of the first motor across a wall to rotate the first member, wherein the first magnetic coupler comprises a first primary ring of magnets and a first secondary ring of magnets, wherein magnets in the first primary ring are magnetically coupled in a radial direction to corresponding magnets in the first secondary ring; and a first pair of annular rings coupled to magnets in the first magnetic coupler in close proximity to ends of magnets furthest from the wall to strengthen magnetic coupling between the first primary ring and the first secondary ring of the first magnetic coupler. 15. The drive mechanism defined in claim 14 further comprising: a second motor; a second magnetic coupler coupled to the second motor for magnetically coupling rotation motion generated in response to activation of the second motor across a wall to rotate a second member, wherein the second magnetic coupler comprises a second primary ring of magnets and a second secondary ring of magnets, wherein magnets in the second primary ring are magnetically coupled in a radial direction to corresponding magnets in the second secondary ring; a second pair of annular rings coupled to magnets in the second magnetic coupler in close proximity to ends of magnets furthest from the wall to strengthen magnetic coupling between the second primary ring and the second secondary ring of the second magnetic coupler. 16. The drive mechanism defined in claim 15 further comprising a shield coupled to the first magnetic coupler and the second magnetic coupler to reduce magnetic coupling between magnets in rings of the first magnetic coupler and magnets in rings of the second magnetic coupler. 17. A robot comprising: a first robotic member and a second robotic member; a first magnetic coupler that transmits motion generated by a first motor across a wall to drive a first robotic member; a second magnetic coupler that transmits motion generated by a second motor across a wall to drive a second robotic member; a shield positioned between the first magnetic coupler and the second magnetic coupler to reduce magnetic coupling between the first magnetic coupler and second magnetic coupler, such that rotations of the first robotic member and the second robotic member are independently controlled. 18. The drive mechanism defined in claim 17 further comprising a mechanism coupled to the first magnetic coupler to return flux lines passing between aligned pairs of primary magnets and secondary magnets. 19. The drive mechanism defined in claim 18 wherein the mechanism comprises an annular flux ring. 20. The drive mechanism defined in claim 17 wherein the shield comprises a flux path. 21. The drive mechanism defined in claim 17 wherein the shield comprises: a first annular shield coupled to the first magnetic coupler between the first magnetic coupler and the second magnetic coupler; and a second annular shield coupled to the second magnetic coupler between the first magnetic coupler and the second magnetic coupler. 