The present method and apparatus use image processing to determine information about the position of a designated object. The invention is particularly useful in applications where the object is difficult to view or locate. In particular, the invention is used in endoscopic surgery to determined positional information about an anatomical feature within a patient's body. The positional information is then used to position or reposition an instrument (surgical instrument) in relation to the designated object (anatomical feature). The invention comprises an instrument which is placed in relation to the designated object and which is capable of sending information about the object to a computer. Image processing methods are used to generated images of the object and determine positional information about it. This information can be used as input to robotic devices or can be rendered, in various ways (video graphics, speech synthesis), to a human user. Various input apparatus are attached to the transmitting or other used instruments to provide control inputs to the computer.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for positioning a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body, comprising: a robotic manipulator having at least one controlled degree of freedom; a controller controlling the robotic manipulator; an instrument holder attaching a first surgical instrument to the robotic manipulator; a second surgical instrument held by a surgeon; a surgeon input device mounted on the second surgical instrument, the surgeon input device permitting the the surgeon to specify desired motions of the first surgical instrument to the controller so that the robotic manipulator moves the first surgical instrument to a position relative to the patient's body as specified by the surgeon using the surgeon input device. 2. A system for positioning a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body, as in claim 1, in which the robotic manipulator has a remote center-of-motion distal to the robotic manipulator; and the instrument holder holds the first surgical instrument so that a point at which the first surgical instrument enters the patient's body is located at the center-of-motion of the robotic manipulator. 3. A system for positioning a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body, as in claim 1, wherein the surgeon input device comprises a joystick. 4. A system for positioning a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body, as in claim 1, wherein the surgeon input device comprises a force sensing element. 5. A system for positioning a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body, as in claim 1, wherein the second surgical instrument is inserted into the patient's body and the surgeon input device is mounted on a portion of the second instrument which remains outside the patient's body. 6. A system for positioning a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body, as in claim 1, wherein the first surgical instrument is any one of the following: a surgical tool, a forceps, a device positioned within the patient's body for transmitting an image outside of the patient's body, a laparoscope, and a medical telescope. 7. A system for positioning two or more surgical instruments relative to a patient's body, comprising: two or more robotic manipulators, each robotic manipulator having at least one controlled degree of freedom; one or more controllers that controls each of the respective robotic manipulators; an instrument holder connected to each robotic manipulator that attaches a first surgical instrument to each of the respective robotic manipulators; a second surgical instrument held by a surgeon; a surgeon input device mounted on the second surgical instrument, the surgeon input device permitting the surgeon to specify desired motions of each of the first surgical instruments to the one or more controllers so that each of the respective robotic manipulators moves each of the first surgical instruments to a position relative to the patient's body as specified by the surgeon using the surgeon input device. 