A gripping apparatus comprising a body having a fastener for attaching the body to an automated manufacturing device, a pair of jaws slidably attached to the body, each jaw projecting away from the body, a jaw driver for opening and closing the jaws, the movement of each jaw defining one range of motion, a pair of fingers, each of which extending from and movably attached to a corresponding jaw, and a finger driver connected to open and close the fingers, the movement of each finger defining another range of motion, one range of motion being significantly smaller than the other range of motion, the movement of the fingers being independent of the movement of the jaws.
Claims Thus, having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. A gripping apparatus, comprising: a body having a central axis and a fastener for attaching said body to an automated manufacturing device; a pair of jaws movably attached to said body, each jaw projecting away from said body; the jaw driver bidirectionally moving each jaw toward and away from the a jaw driver operatively attached to said body for opening and closing said jaws, central axis, the movement of each jaw defining one range of motion; a pair of fingers, each of which extending from and movably attached to a corresponding jaw; and a finger driver for opening and closing said fingers independently of said jaws, the finger driver bidirectionally moving the fingers substantially parallel to the bidirectional movement of the jaws the movement of each finger defining another range of motion, one of said ranges of motion being significantly smaller than the other range of motion. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the movement of each jaw and of each finger defines a first and a second range of motion, respectively, said first range of motion being significantly larger than said second range of motion. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said first range of motion has a lower limit of about 0.5 inch and an upper limit of at least 2.0 inches. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said second range of motion is between about 0.003 inch and 0.010 inch, inclusive. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the movement of each jaw and of each finger defines a first and a second range of motion, respectively, said first range of motion being significantly smaller that said second range of motion. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said jaws defines a chamber therein, each of said fingers being movably disposed within a corresponding jaw chamber. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said finger driver comprises a second pair of drivers. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said second pair of drivers are pneumatic. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein each of said second pair of drivers comprises a pair of inlet valves mounted to a corresponding jaw and in communication with the chamber in said jaw. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 including a pressurized air source in communication with said pair of air inlet valves of each of said second pair of drivers. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 including a control system connected to control the flow of pressurized air from said pressurized air source to said pair of air inlet valves of each of said second pair of drivers. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said body has a top portion and a bottom portion, said fastener being attached to said top portion, said jaws being slidably attached to said bottom portion of said body. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said jaw driver is disposed within said body. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said jaw driver comprises a first pair of drivers, each of which driving a corresponding jaw. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said jaw driver is of a type chosen from pneumatic, servo, electromagnetic and hydraulic. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 further including a pair of air inlet valves on said body in communication with said jaw driver. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further including a pressurized air source in communication with said pair of air inlet valves. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 further including a control system connected to control the flow of pressurized air from said pressurized air source to said air inlet valves. 19. A gripper head for retrieving components and placing them in predetermined positions, comprising: a body having a top portion, a bottom portion and a fastener attached to said top portion for attaching said body to an automated device, said body having a vertically oriented central axis; a pair of jaws slidably attached to said bottom portion of said body, one positioned on each side of said central axis, each jaw projecting away from said body and defining a chamber, the axis of each jaw being substantially parallel to said central axis; a first pair of drivers disposed within said body for bidirectionally driving a corresponding jaw toward and away from said central axis, the bidirectional movement of each jaw defining a first range of motion; a pair of fingers, each of which being partially and movably disposed within a corresponding chamber; and a second pair of drivers, each of which being operatively attached to a corresponding one of said jaws for bidirectionally driving a corresponding finger toward and away from said central axis, the bidirectional movement of each finger defining a second range of motion significantly smaller than said first range of motion and being independent of the bidirectional movement of said jaws. 20. The gripper head of claim 19 wherein said first range of motion has a lower limit of about 0.5 inch and an upper limit of at least 2.0 inches. 21. The gripper head of claim 19 wherein said second range of motion is between about 0.003 inch and 0.010 inch, inclusive. 22. The gripper head of claim 19 wherein each of said first and second pair of drivers is pneumatic. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 further including: a pressurized air source for supplying pressurized air to said first and second pair of drivers; and a control system connected to control said first and second pair of drivers, said control system terminating the pressurized air flow to said first pair of drivers while allowing pressurized air flow to said second pair of drivers. 24. A gripper head for retrieving components and placing them in predetermined positions, comprising: a body having a top portion, a bottom portion and a fastener attached to said top portion for attaching said body to an automated device, said body having a vertically oriented central axis; a pair of jaws slidably attached to said bottom portion of said body, one positioned on each side of said central axis, each jaw projecting away from said body and defining a chamber, the axis of each jaw being substantially parallel to said central axis; a first pair of drivers disposed within said body for bidirectionally driving a corresponding jaw toward and away from said central axis, the bidirectional movement of each jaw defining a first range of motion; a pair of fingers, each of which being partially and movably disposed within a corresponding chamber; and a second pair of drivers, each of which being operatively attached to a corresponding one of said jaws for bidirectionally driving a corresponding finger toward and away from said central axis, the bidirectional movement of each finger defining a second range of motion significantly larger than said first range of motion, the bidirectional movement of said jaws being independent of the bidirectional movement of said fingers. 25. The gripper head of claim 24 wherein said second range of motion has a lower limit of about 0.5 inch and an upper limit of at least 2.0 inches. 26. The gripper head of claim 24 wherein said first range of motion is between about 0.003 inch and 0.010 inch, inclusive. 27. The gripper head of claim 24 wherein each of said first and second pair of drivers is pneumatic. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 further including: a pressurized air source for supplying pressurized air to said first and second pair of drivers; and a control system connected to control the flow of pressurized air from said pressurized air source to said first and second pair of drivers, said control system terminating the pressurized air flow to said second pair of drivers while allowing pressurized air flow to said first pair of drivers. 29. A method for retrieving components and placing them at a predetermined location without interfering with adjacent components, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a gripping apparatus, said apparatus comprising a body having a fastener for attaching said body to a robotic controller, a pair of jaws slidably attached to said body and projecting away from said body, a jaw driver operatively attached to said body for opening and closing said jaws, the movement of each jaw defining a first range of motion, a pair of fingers, each of which extending from and movably attached to a corresponding jaw, and a finger driver connected to open and close said fingers, the bidirectional movement of each finger defining a second range of motion significantly smaller than said first range of motion, the movement of said fingers being independent from the movement of said jaws; (b) opening said jaws; (c) closing said fingers; (d) positioning said gripping apparatus so that a component to be retrieved is between said fingers; (e) closing said jaws so said fingers grip the component; (f) positioning said gripping apparatus so that the component is at the predetermined location; (g) neutralizing said jaws; and (h) opening said fingers to release the grip on the component. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein step (f) further includes the steps of positioning said gripping apparatus such that each finger penetrates the space between the retrieved component and adjacent components. 31. The method of claim 29 wherein said first range of motion has a lower limit of about 0.5 inch and an upper limit of at least 2.0 inches. 32. The method of claim 29 wherein said second range of motion is between about 0.003 inch and 0.010 inch, inclusive. 33. A method for retrieving components and placing them at a predetermined location without interfering with adjacent components, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a gripping apparatus, said apparatus comprising a body having a fastener for attaching said body to a robotic controller, a pair of jaws slidably attached to said body and projecting away from said body, a jaw driver operatively attached to said body for opening and closing said jaws, the movement of each jaw defining a first range of motion, a pair of fingers, each of which extending from and movably attached to a corresponding jaw, and a finger driver connected to open and close said fingers, the bidirectional movement of each finger defining a second range of motion significantly larger than said first range of motion, the movement of said jaws being independent from the movement of said fingers; (b) closing said jaws; (c) opening said fingers; (d) positioning said gripping apparatus so that a component to be retrieved is between said fingers; (e) closing said fingers to grip the component; (f) positioning said gripping apparatus so that the component is at the predetermined location; (g) neutralizing said fingers; and (h) opening said jaws to release the grip on the component. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein step (f) further includes the steps of positioning said gripping apparatus such that each finger penetrates the space between the retrieved component and adjacent components. 35. The method of claim 33 wherein said second range of motion has a lower limit of about 0.5 inch and an upper limit of at least 2.0 inches. 36. The method of claim 33 wherein said first range of motion is between about 0.003 inch and 0.010 inch, inclusive. 