Multilayer circuit assemblies are made by stacking circuit panels having contacts on their top surfaces, through conductors extending between top and bottom surfaces and terminals connected to the bottomend of each through conductor. The terminals and contacts are arranged so that when the panels are stacked the terminals on the bottom of one panel are in alignment with the contacts on the top surface of the immediately underlying panel. The panels are selectively treated on their top and/or bottom surfaces so as to selectively disconnect or connect each contact to a terminal on the bottom surface of the same panel. For example, the top surface of the panel may be selectively etched to disconnect a contact from one through conductor and hence from the associated terminal. The aligned terminals and contacts are nonselectively connected to one another at each interface so that wherever a terminal and contact on adjacent panels are aligned with one another there are connected to one another. This forms composite vertical conductors extending through a plurality of the panels. The selective treatment of the panel top and bottom surfaces provides selective interruptions in the vertical conductors. A circuit panel precursor having the through conductors and methods of making the same are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making a circuit panel precursor comprising the steps of: (a) applying a first electrically conductive material on a first surface of a first dielectric sheet so that said conductive material forms islands spaced apart from one another; (b) applying an additional dielectric material over said first conductive material so as to provide a second dielectric sheet and thereby form a laminate with said first conductive material disposed between said dielectric sheets and with dielectric material surrounding each said island; and (c) forming holes in each said dielectric sheet in alignment with said islands so that each said island is exposed through said holes to top and bottom surfaces of the laminate. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said step of applying a first conductive material is performed so that said first conductive material forms a continuous layer with apertures, each said island being disposed within one such aperture. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein said step of applying said first electrically conductive material includes the step of applying the electrically conductive material to form said continuous layer and then selectively removing annular portions of said layer to thereby form said apertures and islands. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said step of applying said conductive material is performed by laminating a sheet of said first electrically conductive material to said first dielectric sheet. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said step of applying said second dielectric material includes the step of laminating a coherent sheet of said second dielectric material over first conductive material. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said step of forming holes in each said dielectric sheet includes the step of applying radiant energy to said dielectric layers from opposite sides of said laminate in registration with said islands. 7. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said step of forming said holes in said first dielectric layer includes the step of providing said holes before said step of applying said first electrically conductive material. 8. A method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of depositing an electrically conductive via material in said holes to form through conductors extending to the top and bottom surfaces of the laminate and incorporating said islands. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8 further comprising the step of applying an electrically conductive surface material to the top and bottom surfaces of said laminate so that said surface material is electrically connected to said through conductors. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said steps of applying said via material and said surface material are performed simultaneously by immersing the laminate in a plating solution. 11. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein each of said dielectric layers is less than about 150 micrometers thick and each of said holes has a minimum diameter less than about 250 micrometers. 12. A method of making a multilayer circuit assembly comprising the steps of: (a) providing a first circuit panel having a dielectric body with oppositely directed top and bottom surfaces, contacts on its top surface at locations of a first regular grid pattern terminals on its bottom surface, and through-conductors electrically connected to said terminals and extending to the top surface of the panel, and a second circuit panel having a dielectric body with a bottom surface and terminals at locations of said first regular grid pattern on the bottom surface of such panel, said providing step including the step of customizing said first circuit panel by selectively treating the top surface of such panel so that less than all of the through conductors of such panel are connected to contacts of such panel; (b) stacking said circuit panels in superposed, top-surface to bottom surface relation so that the top surface of said first circuit panel faces the bottom surface of said second circuit panel at a first interface and said first regular grid patterns on said facing surfaces are in registration with one another, with said contacts of said first panel being aligned with said terminals of said second panel at least some locations of said in-registration patterns; and (c) nonselectively connecting all of said aligned contacts and terminals at said interface, whereby less than all of said through conductors of said customized panel are connected to terminals of said adjacent panel. 13. A method of making a multilayer circuit assembly comprising the steps of: (a) providing a first circuit panel having a dielectric body with oppositely directed top and bottom surfaces, contacts on its top surface at all locations of a first regular grid pattern, terminals on its bottom surface, and through-conductors electrically connected to said terminals and extending to the top surface of the panel, and a second circuit panel having a dielectric body with a bottom surface and terminals at all locations of said first regular grid pattern on the bottom surface of such panel, said providing step including the step of customizing said first circuit panel by selectively treating the top surface of such panel so that less than all of the through conductors of such panel are connected to contacts of such panel; (b) stacking said circuit panels in superposed, top-surface to bottom surface relation so that the top surface of said first circuit panel faces the bottom surface of said second circuit panel at a first interface and said first patterns on said facing surfaces are in registration with one another, with said contacts of said first panel being aligned with said terminals of said second panel at all locations of said in-registration patterns; and (c) nonselectively connecting all of said aligned contacts and terminals at said interface, whereby less than all of said through conductors of said customized panel are connected to terminals of said adjacent panel. 14. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said first circuit panel has one said through conductor disposed adjacent to each said location of said first regular grid pattern, said step of customizing the top surface of said first panel being performed so that each said through conductor which is connected to one said contact is connected to a contact at the location of said first regular pattern adjacent to that through conductor. 15. A method as claimed in claim 14 wherein said through conductors are disposed in a regular grid pattern corresponding to said first regular grid pattern but offset therefrom in a horizontal direction. 16. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said step of nonselectively connecting includes the steps of placing an interposer bearing discrete masses of flowable conductive material at said interface so that said masses are disposed at all locations of said first regular grid pattern at said first interface and bringing all of the flowable conductive material of said interposer to a fluid condition. 17. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said dielectric body of said second circuit panel has a top surface directed oppositely from its bottom surface, and through conductors electrically connected to at least some of the terminals on the bottom surface of such panel extending to the top surface of the panel, whereby less than all of the through conductors of said first panel will be connected to through conductors of said second panel to form composite vertical conductors extending through both said first and second panels. 18. A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein said second panel has terminals at all locations of said first pattern and through conductors connected to all of said terminals, whereby all of those through conductors of said first panel which are connected to contacts of such panel will be connected with through conductors of the second panel to form composite vertical conductors. 19. A method as claimed in claim 18 wherein said providing step further includes the step of selectively treating the top surface of said second panel so as to connect less than all of said through conductors of said second circuit panel to contacts disposed on the top surface of said second circuit panel at locations of a second regular grid pattern corresponding to said first regular grid pattern but offset therefrom in a horizontal direction, the method further including the steps of providing a third circuit panel having a dielectric body defining top and bottom surfaces, said third panel having terminals on its bottom surface at locations of said second regular grid pattern, superposing said third panel on said second panel so that the bottom surface of said third panel faces the top surface of said second panel at a second interface, and so that said second patterns are in registration with one another, whereby contacts of said second panel and terminals of said third panel are aligned with one another at said second interface, and nonselectively connecting all of said aligned terminals and contacts at said second interface. 20. A method as claimed in claim 19 wherein said third panel has a top surface and through conductors extending from the terminals of such panel to the top surface thereof, the through conductors of each of said first, second and third panels extending substantially vertically between the top and bottom surfaces of such panel, the stacking and superposing steps being performed so that the through conductors of the first and third panels are aligned with one another. 21. A method as claimed in claim 20 wherein said through conductors of said second circuit panel are disposed at locations of said first regular grid pattern and said through conductors of said first and third circuit panel are disposed at locations of said second regular grid pattern. 22. A method as claimed in claim 21 wherein said first and second regular grid patterns are rectilinear grid patterns including columns of locations extending in a first horizontal direction and rows of locations extending in a second horizontal direction orthogonal to said first horizontal direction, said first and second grid patterns being offset from one another in said first horizontal direction. 23. A method as claimed in claim 22 wherein said steps of selectively treating said top surfaces of said first and second panels includes the step of forming conductors extending in one of said first and second directions on said top surfaces of said first and second panels, the method further comprising the step of selectively treating said bottom surfaces of said first and second panels so as to form conductors extending in the other one of said first and second directions on the bottom surfaces of said first and second panels. 24. A method as claimed in claim 23 wherein said steps of forming conductors are performed so that the conductors on the top surfaces of said first and second panels extend in said first horizontal direction and the conductors on said bottom surfaces of said first and second panels extend in said second horizontal direction. 