A toy vehicle includes a body supporting a pair of rear wheels and a pivotally secured lower jaw portion supporting a pair of front wheels. The vehicle further includes a pair of pivotally secured pincers movable between a rearward or closed position and a forwardly extending or open position. Each pincer is coupled to a gear portion which in turn is coupled to one side of a two-sided gear rack movable within the vehicle body in response to a pivoting actuator. As the actuator is pivoted, the gear rack is driven forwardly or rearwardly to cause pivotal motion of the pincers. A resilient body is secured to the vehicle body and includes a plurality of flexible tubular tentacles which extend from the resilient body and are coupled to each of the pincers. As a result, the toy vehicle is configured in a relatively standard appearance closed position or a monster-like alternate configuration as the actuator is moved between alternative positions.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A toy vehicle comprising: a vehicle body; a pair of pincers pivotally secured to said vehicle body movable between a rearwardly extending closed position and a forwardly extending open position; an actuator movably coupled to said vehicle body; drive means, coupled to said actuator and said pair of pincers, for causing said pair of pincers to pivot between said open and closed positions in response to actuator movement relative to said vehicle body; and a resilient body secured to said vehicle body having a plurality of elongated tube-like tentacles extending from said resilient body to said pincers. 2. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 1 wherein said drive means includes: a gear rack coupled to said actuator; and a pair of gears each secured to one of said pincers engaging said gear rack. 3. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 2 wherein said gear rack passes between said gears in said pair of gears. 4. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 3 wherein said gear rack defines a pair of oppositely facing arrays of gear teeth each engaging one of said gears in said pair of gears. 5. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 4 wherein said drive means includes a return spring urging said pincers toward said closed position. 6. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 1 wherein said drive means includes a return spring urging said pincers toward said closed position. 7. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 1 wherein said vehicle body further includes: an upper jaw having a plurality of downwardly extending teeth; and a lower jaw having a plurality of upwardly extending teeth, said lower jaw being pivotally coupled to said upper jaw. 8. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 7 wherein said drive means includes: a gear rack coupled to said actuator; and a pair of gears each secured to one of said pincers engaging said gear rack. 9. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 8 wherein said gear rack passes between said gears in said pair of gears. 10. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 9 wherein said gear rack defines a pair of oppositely facing arrays of gear teeth each engaging one of said gears in said pair of gears. 11. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 10 wherein said drive means includes a return spring urging said pincers toward said closed position. 12. A toy vehicle comprising: a vehicle body having rear wheels; a gear rack having first and second rows of outwardly extending gear teeth; p1 actuator means for moving said gear rack relative to said vehicle body; first and second gears rotatably supported on said vehicle body engaging said first and second rows of gear teeth respectively; first and second pincers secured to said first and second gears respectively and pivotable therewith; an upper jaw formed on said vehicle body; and a lower jaw having front wheels pivotally coupled to said vehicle body movable between a closed position against said upper jaw and an open position pivoted from said upper jaw, whereby manipulation of said actuator means pivots said pincers relative to said vehicle body by moving said gear rack between said first and second gears and pivots said vehicle about said rear wheels to raise said upper jaw and allow said lower jaw to pivot away from said upper jaw. 13. A toy vehicle as set forth in claim 12 further including a resilient body secured to said vehicle body having elongated flexible resilient members coupled to said pincers. 