Pharmacological agents useful in the diagnosis or treatment of disease associated with the expression of a gene are identified in high throughput drug screening assays. The methods involve combining a labeled transcription factor, a nucleic acid coupled to a ligand, a candidate pharmacological agent and a receptor immobilized on a solid substrate, such as a microtiter plate, filter, or bead. The nucleic acid has at least that portion of a nucleotide sequence naturally involved in the regulation of the transcription of the gene which is necessary for sequence-specific interaction with the transcription factor. The resultant combination is incubated under conditions whereby the receptor is bound to the ligand and, but for the presence of said candidate pharmacological agent, the transcription factor is sequence-specifically bound to the nucleic acid. Unbound transcription factor is then removed or washed from the solid substrate and labelled, sequence-specifically bound transcription factor is detected. Incubates which include candidate agents which alter transcription factor binding deviate from control incubates in terms of label signal--typically, binding is disrupted and the signal is diminished. In a preferred embodiment, the entire process is performed by a computer-controllable electromechanical robot with an axial rotatable arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of screening for a compound which inhibits the binding of a transcription factor to a nucleic acid, said method comprising the steps of: forming a mixture by combining a labeled protein comprising a portion of a transcription factor and a label, a nucleic acid conjugate, said compound and a receptor immobilized on a solid substrate, wherein said nucleic acid conjugate comprises a nucleotide sequence and a ligand which specifically binds said receptor; incubating said mixture under conditions whereby said receptor is bound to said ligand, and wherein in the absence of said compound said labeled protein is sequence-specifically bound to said nucleic acid conjugate; separating from said solid substrate a fraction of said mixture, which fraction comprises said labeled protein if said labeled protein is not sequence-specifically bound to said nucleic acid conjugate; and detecting the presence or absence of said label on said solid substrate, wherein the absence of said label on said solid substrate indicates said compound inhibits the binding of said transcription factor to said nucleic acid. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said labeled protein sequence-specifically binds said nucleic acid conjugate with a binding affinity of at least 10.sup.6 M.sup.-1. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said mixture further comprises a portion of an auxiliary protein which enhances binding of said labeled protein to said nucleic acid conjugate. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said transcription factor is a viral transcription factor. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein said transcription factor is a bacterial transcription factor. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein said transcription factor is a plant transcription factor. 7. A method recording to claim 1, wherein transcription factor is a fungal transcription factor. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein said transcription factor is a monocotyledonous or dicotyledonous plant transcription factor. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein said receptor is avidin and said ligand is biotin. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein said label is a radioactive phosphorous atom. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein said forming step and said separating step are performed at least in part by a computer controlled electromechanical robot. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein said robot comprises an axial rotatable arm and said solid substrate is a microliter plate. 13. A kit for screening for a compound which inhibits the binding of a transcription factor to a nucleic acid, said kit comprising: a solid substrate, a labeled protein comprising a portion of a transcription factor and a label, said compound, a receptor immobilized on said solid substrate, and a nucleic acid conjugate comprising a nucleotide sequence and a ligand which specifically binds said receptor. 14. A kit according to claim 13, further comprising a computer-controllable electromagnetic robot with an axial rotatable arm and wherein said solid substrate is a microtiter plate. 