An method and apparatus for automatically forming a plurality of needle-suture assemblies out of a plurality of unsorted needles and an indefinite length strand of suture material, and, automatically positioning them within a package tray, comprises a first machine located at a first location for sorting a plurality of randomly oriented needles and orienting each needle for automatic handling at a first predetermined location, a second machine located at a second predetermined location for automatically drawing and cutting an indefinite length strand of suture material and automatically inserting a free end thereof into a suture receiving opening of the needle, and swaging the needle about the sutures to form a needle suture assembly, and a first indexing device for sequentially .receiving individual oriented needles at the first location and transporting each of the needles from the first location to the second location to form the needle-suture assemblies. A second indexing device is provided for registering an empty package tray at a third location for sequentially receiving one or more of the needle-suture assemblies from the first indexing device. A control system computer enables the first indexing device to sequentially transport the needle-suture assemblies from the second location to the third location, and enables the sequential insertion of the needle-suture assemblies to the package tray while registered at the third location.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures, said method comprising: (a) sequentially feeding a plurality of needles and a plurality of associated sutures between a pair of swaging dies, with a first of said pair being adjustably fixed; (b) sequentially swaging each of said needles to an associated suture by driving the second of said pair of dies towards the adjustably fixed die to form a plurality of needle-suture assemblies; (c) pull testing each nth needle-suture assembly to obtain an nth sample failure value; (d) comparing said nth sample failure value with a low failure threshold value and generating a first signal if said nth sample failure value is below said low failure threshold value; and (e) incrementally adjusting the position of said adjustably fixed die in response to said first signal to move said adjustably fixed die an incremental distance towards the second die. 2. A method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 1 wherein said method also includes the steps of: (a) comparing said nth sample failure value with a high failure threshold value and generating a second signal if said nth sample failure value is above said high threshold value; (b) incrementally adjusting the position of said adjustably fixed die in response to said second signal to move said adjustably fixed die an incremental distance away from the second die. 3. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 2 wherein said first of said pair of swaging dies includes a wedge follower located at one end thereof and a wedge assembly positioned to move transverse to said wedge follower, wherein the step of incrementally adjusting the position of said adjustably fixed die further includes the steps of: (a) inputting either of said first and second signals to a servomotor means for precisely rotating a swage adjust screw of a predetermined pitch in accordance with either of said first and second signals; (b) translating said rotation of said swage adjust screw into linear motion of said wedge assembly, said wedge assembly moving transverse to said wedge follower of said first swaging die; and (c) moving said wedge follower of said first of said pair of swaging dies in incremental units correlating with said transverse linear motion of said wedge assembly. 4. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 1 further including the steps of: (a) sequentially drawing a plurality of indefinite length suture strands to said pair of swaging dies; (b) sequentially inserting free ends of said indefinite length suture strands into respective suture receiving openings formed in said plurality of needles prior to swaging thereof; and, (c) sequentially cutting said indefinite length suture strands to definite length after swaging said free ends to said needles, said strands being cut a predetermined distance from said free ends to form a plurality of needle-suture assemblies each having a said associated suture of definite length depending from said needle. 5. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 4 further including the steps of: (a) mounting an empty package tray on a support structure; (b) successively inserting said needle-suture assemblies onto predetermined needle-clamping locations in said tray to form an array of needles and attached sutures depending therefrom; (c) gathering said depending suture portions into a bundle of strands and imparting axial tension thereto; (d) rotating said package tray about an axis extending normal to the plane of said tray with a drive means; and (e) winding said bundle of strands into a peripheral channel formed in said package tray. 6. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 5 wherein the step of successively inserting said needle-suture assemblies into said package tray further includes the step of incrementally vertically displacing a package tray support structure with said package tray attached thereto so as to correlate the successive insertion of said needle-suture assemblies with said predetermined needle-clamping locations in said tray to form said needle array. 7. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 6 wherein the step of incrementally vertically displacing said support structure and said package tray further includes the step of grippingly engaging and conveying a specified quantity of needle-suture assemblies in successive sequence into said tray in synchronism with the incremental vertical displacement of said support structure and said package tray. 8. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 7 further including the step of applying a cover to said package tray to form a completed suture package containing said needles and attached wound sutures. 9. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 8 further including the step of disengaging said completed suture package from said support structure. 10. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 8 further including applying a cover to said package tray to form a completed suture package containing said needles and attached sutures, said cover being applied by a cover applying means, said cover applying means including a pivotable arm having grippers for gripping said covers, said method further including the steps of: (a) successively obtaining individual covers from a supply of covers; (b) pivoting said grippers into alignment with said tray on said support structure; (c) extending said grippers to position a cover gripped thereby on said tray; (d) releasing said cover; and, (e) withdrawing said grippers. 11. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 5 wherein the step of gathering said depending suture portions includes the step of imparting a subatmospheric pressure to said depending suture portions to cause said depending suture portions to be tensioned into said bundle of strands. 12. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 5 wherein the step of winding said bundle of strands includes the steps of: (a) contacting said tensioned suture portions with an arm structure means; and (b) pivoting said arm structure means to bias said suture portions into an orientation facilitating winding of said suture portions into the tray channel. 13. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 12 wherein said winding step further includes the steps of: (a) operatively contacting a stylus means with said tensioned and bundled suture strands; (b) guiding said bundle of strands into said tray channel with said stylus means to facilitate winding of said sutures into said tray during rotation of said tray. 14. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 13 wherein said stylus means includes stylus legs for contacting said bundle of strands, a piston rod for mounting said stylus legs at one end thereof for axial movement, and, a stationary piston cylinder within which said piston rod is mounted, said method further including the step of exerting pressurized air against said piston rod within said stationary piston cylinder to provide reciprocatory motion thereof to enable said stylus legs to engage into and follow said peripheral tray channel during rotation of said tray. 15. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 14 wherein said package tray is supported on a support structure including a cam plate, and said stylus means further includes cam follower means mounted on said piston rod proximate said stylus legs, said method further comprising contacting a peripheral camming surface on said cam plate by said cam follower means in response to said pressure being exerted against said piston rod by pressurized air in said piston cylinder. 16. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 15 wherein said tray includes a plurality of resilient cantilevered fingers extending over said peripheral channel for protectively maintaining the sutures in said channel, said stylus legs engaging beneath successive of said fingers for raising said fingers during rotation of said tray to guide said bundle of strands therebeneath and bias said bundle of strands into and towards the bottom of said tray channel. 17. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 16 further including the step of inhibiting displacement of said package tray on said support structure by contacting said tray with a restraint means during rotation of said tray, wherein said restraint means is operatively connected to said drive means. 18. The method of automatically swaging surgical needles to associated sutures as claimed in claim 1 wherein step (c) of pull testing each nth needle-suture assembly further includes the steps of: (a) supporting the needle of said nth needle-suture assembly; (b) gripping said associated suture of said nth needle with a gripping means, said gripping means including a means for applying a force of predetermined value to said suture; (c) applying said force of predetermined value to said suture while said suture is gripped by said gripping means; and, (d) measuring said force applied to obtain said nth sample failure value. 