A method is disclosed for automatically doffing a full strand package on a collet winder such as used in the manufacturing of fiberglass and the like strands. The method includes providing a rotating doffing cup (A) which includes a cylindrical cup (40) having an inflatable liner (44) carried on the inside of the cup. A robotic vehicle (10) includes a servo-linkage arm (28) which positions the doffing cup at a desired winding station along a row (14) of collet winders (B). The method includes bringing the doffing cup up to an approach position, pivoting a traverse guide (76) away from the collet, and extending the doffing cup over a full strand package (36). The rotating cup is brought up to a speed slightly greated than the speed of the rotating yarn package. The liner (44) is then inflated causing the rotating doffing cup to grip the strand. The rotating cup (A) is then retracted with the strand package. A length of strand (90) extends from the doffed yarn package (91) to auxiliary windings (88) formed on the collet from the strand (74) being previously pushed off the strand package. During retraction, the strand (90) breaks. The doffed strand package is then placed on a carrier (34) at a receiver station (32) which conveys the full strand packages to a next processing station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a method of producing fiberglass strands which includes continuously producing multiple glass filaments and gathering said multiple filaments together into a single fiberglass strand, and winding said fiberglass strand upon a draw winder of the type which includes a rotating collet to form a strand package wherein the improvement comprises a method of automatically doffing said strand packages which comprises: providing a rotating doffing cup having a hollow cylindrical interior; providing an inflatable cup liner in said hollow interior of said doffing cup; positioning the doffing cup in an approach position in front of a full strand package which is to be doffed so that the axis of rotation of said doffing cup is parallel to and coincident with the axis of rotation of said full fiberglass strand package; moving said doffing cup along its axis of rotation from said approach position to a doff position where said strand package is enclosed generally entirely within the hollow interior of said doffing cup; dropping said strand extending from said strand package to said collecting ring off of an end of said strand package onto said collet to form auxiliary windings; inflating said inflatable cup liner of said doffing cup until said strand package is gripped around generally the entire circumference thereof by said cup liner while rotating said doffing cup at a speed at least as great as the rotational speed of said collet of said draw winder; retracting said doffing cup and gripped strand package along said axis of rotation while rotating in a manner such that a strand extends from said doffed strand package to said auxiliary windings on the surface of said collet; severing said strand extending from said doffed strand package and said collet of said draw winder; braking the rotation of said rotating doffing cup with said doffed strand package being held within the interior of said doffing cup; and depositing said doffed strand package at a receiving station. 2. The method of claim 1 including overwrapping a tail of said severed strand with new windings being wound on said collet so that there will be no flying tail to produce fuzz. 3. The method of claim 1 including containing a tail of said severed strand extending from the doffed strand package by surrounding said strand package with said doffing cup so that there will be no flying tail to produce fuzz. 4. The method of claim 1 including: positioning said braked doffing cup and doffed strand package at a receiving station; positioning the doffed strand package on a carrier; deflating said inflatable liner of said doffing cup to deposit said doffed strand package on said carrier; and moving said doffing cup away from said receiving station to an approach position in front of another full strand package to be doffed. 5. The method of claim 1 including: rotating said collet continuously at an operational winding speed during the doffing of said full strand package by said doffing cup. 6. The method of claim 1 including removing said strand package from said collet by said doffing cup in such a manner that said strand extending from said auxiliary windings to said strand package is broken and said strand from said collecting ring forms windings of a new strand package automatically on said doffed strand package being moved outwardly along the axis of rotation of said collet. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said doffing cup is brought to a rotational speed which is slightly greater than that of said rotating strand package prior to said inflatable liner being inflated and gripping said fiberglass strand package to free said strand package when gripped. 8. A method of automatically doffing a strand package off of a rotating collet of a collet winder wherein yarn is supplied to said collet from a gathering ring and wound upon said collet by a traversing guide to form a strand package, said method comprising the steps of: providing a horizontal row of said collet winders each having a collet and an associated traversing guide; providing a plurality of receiving stations for receiving said strand packages when doffed from said collet winders; providing a variable speed rotating doffing cup having an inflatable cup liner expandable to grip said strand package; moving said doffing cup along a path generally along said row of collet winders and back and forth from said collet winders and receiving stations; positioning said doffing cup in an approach position in front of a strand package to be doffed with an axis of rotation of said doffing cup parallel and coincident with the axis of rotation of said strand package; extending said doffing cup over said full strand package to a doff position and rotating said doffing cup at a speed generally equal to or greater than the rotational speed of said rotating collet and strand package; inflating said inflatable cup liner of said doffing cup when said doffing cup is in said doff position to grip the strand package firmly around its circumference; retracting said doffing cup and strand package along the axis of rotation of said doffing cup and collet to remove said strand package from said collet while said strand package is rotating with said doffing cup; severing the strand package extending from said rotating doffed strand package to said collet; braking said rotational speed of said rotating doffing cup and strand package after removal from said collet; and depositing said strand package at said receiving station by deflating said inflatable liner of said doffing cup after said rotation of said doffing cup has been braked. 9. The method of claim 8 including rotating said doffing cup at a speed slightly greater than the speed of said rotating collet and strand package in said doffed position prior to gripping said strand package to free said package from said collet. 10. The method of claim 8 including dropping a section of said strand extending from said strand package to said gathering ring off of the end of said rotating strand package onto the surface of the collet to begin auxiliary windings of a new strand package prior to the severing of said strand package. 11. The method of claim 10 including overwrapping a strand tail formed by severing said strand on said collet with windings forming said new strand package on said collet so that there will be not flying tail of said new strand package which produces fuzz. 12. The method of claim 10 including retaining a strand tail on said doffed strand package after severing of said strand within the interior of said doffing cup so that there will be no strand tail flying in rotation to produce fuzz. 13. The method of claim 8 including moving said traversing yarn guide perpendicular to the axis of rotation of said collet prior to said doffing cup being extended over said full strand package to said doff position; and returning said traversing guide to said traversing position after said doffing cup and strand package have been retracted and removed from said collet to commence the forming and winding of said new strand package. 14. A method of producing a continuous strand of glass fibers of the type which includes producing glass fibers continuously, collecting said glass fibers in a single strand, advancing the strand to a rotating collet, causing the strand to traverse the collet back and forth along the length of the collet to form a strand package, wherein the improvement comprises: providing a rotating doffing cup having a hollow cylindrical interior with an actuatable gripping means carried about the circumference of said cylidrical interior; positioning said doffing cup at a preset approach position in front of a full strand package so that the axis of rotation of the doffing cup is parallel to and coincident with the axis of rotation of the collet; extending said doffing cup to a doff position in which the doffing cup generally encloses the strand package along generally the entire length thereof while rotating said doffing cup at a speed generally equal to the rotational speed of said full strand package; actuating said gripping means when said doffing cup is in said doffing position so that said strand package is gripped around its entire circumference and firmly held by said doffing cup; retracting said doffing cup and strand package along said axes of rotation causing said rotating strand package to be doffed off of said rotating collet; producing a strand extending from said doffed strand package to said collet; severing said strand extending from said strand package to said collet as said rotating doffing cup and strand package are retracted producing a tail strand on said strand package and a tail strand on said collet; depositing said doffed strand package at a receiving station; and forming windings on said collet to form a new strand package without stopping rotation of said collet. 15. The method of claim 14 including overwrapping said tail strand on said collet with said new strand windings so that there will be no flying tail of yarn which produces fuzz. 16. The method of claim 14 including containing said said tail strand of glass fibers on said strand package with said doffing cup so that there is no flying tail of yarn to produce fuzz. 17. The method of claim 14 including the steps of: braking said rotating doffing cup and doffed strand package after being retracted from said collet and said strand of glass fibers has been severed to a non-rotating speed; positioning said braked doffing cup and full strand package at a receiver station; depositing said full strand package on a carrier; deactuating said gripping means; and retracting said doffing cup so that said full strand package is left at said receiving station. 18. The method of claim 14 including rotating said doffing cup at a speed slightly greater than the speed of said full strand package when in said doff position so that said full strand package is freed from said collet when gripped by said gripping means. 