An electrical connector transfer nest for use in transferring an electrical connector from a connector pick-up station to a work station, comprises a frame in which are slidably mounted, a pair of plungers, one of these having means for releasably retaining a connector thereon. The nest is arranged to receive a flat cable between the plungers, so that by moving the plungers towards one another, against the action of a return spring, conductor receiving portions of terminals of the connector can be forced through the cable to receive the conductors. Means are provided for releasing the connector from the nest, after it has been terminated to the cable and as the plungers are moved apart by the return spring. The other plunger may be arranged, releasably to receive, a cover for the connector, the cover having means for stuffing the cable conductors into the wire receiving portions of the terminals.
Claims We claim: 1. A transfer nest for an electrical connector having electrical terminals with conductor receiving portions projecting from a face of the connector, the nest comprising: a frame adapted for attachment to connector transfer means for transport thereby; a connector support and a counter-abutment mounted for relative movement towards and away from one another in the frame; return means urging the connector support and the counter-abutment relatively away from one another; means for retaining the connector between the connector support and the counter-abutment with said face directed towards the latter; means on the transfer nest for guiding a multi-conductor flat cable into a position parallel with said face and between said face and the counter-abutment; means on the counter-abutment for stuffing the conductors of said cable into said wire receiving portions as a result of relative movement towards one another of the connector support and the counter-abutment; and means for releasing the connector from the nest and upon subsequent relative movement of the connector support and the counter-abutment away from one another under the action of the return means. 2. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 1 wherein the counter-abutment is slidably mounted in the frame so as to be depressable towards the connector support against the action of said return means. 3. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 2, wherein the connector support and the counter-abutment are slidable towards and away from one another in the frame on cross roller bearings. 4. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 1, wherein said retaining means comprises a buffer for engaging one end of the connector and a latch bolt loaded by a spring, for engaging the other end thereof, said releasing means comprising a latching member for retaining the latch bolt in a raised unlatching position upon depression of the latch bolt against the action of its spring. 5. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 1, wherein the counter-abutment is provided with means for releasably retaining thereon a connector cover which is latchable to the connector and which comprises said stuffing means. 6. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 5, wherein said retaining means for said cover comprises a spring loaded buffer for engaging one end of the cover and a spring loaded latch bolt for engaging the other end thereof. 7. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 1, wherein said retaining means comprise a spring loaded buffer for engaging one end of the connector and a latch bolt for engaging the other, the latch bolt having a shoulder for abutment with the connector and being retractable into the connector support against the action of return means, said releasing means comprising a spring loaded latch plate slidably mounted in the connector support for engagement with the latch bolt when the latch bolt is in a retracted position to retain it in such position, the latch plate having a nose projecting from the nest and which is depressable to disengage the latch plate from the latch bolt to allow it to be returned by said return means. 8. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 4, further comprising means for securing said buffer at selected positions with respect to said latch bolt. 9. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 1, wherein the connector support and the abutment are provided with spring loaded cable gripping plates defining said cable guiding means, the cable gripping plates of the connector support defining a connector receiving channel and those of the counter-abutment being disposed on either side of the conductor stuffing means, each cable gripping plate of the connector support being coplanar with a cable gripping plate of the counter-abutment. 10. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 9, wherein the cable gripping plates are mounted on rods slidably engaging in bushings in the connector support and the counter-abutment respectively. 11. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a bussing plate fixed to the connector support and a connector hold down member towards which the plunger is depressable against the action of spring means to move the bussing plate into contact terminals of the connector. 12. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 11, wherein the bussing plate has projections for engaging in respective terminal receiving cavities in the connector. 13. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 1, wherein the frame is elongate and rectilinear, the connector support and the counter-abutment extending from the frame at right angles thereto and in substantially parallel relationship and being connected to the frame through cross roller-bearings. 14. A transfer nest for an electrical connector comprising a connector body having a first face from which conductor receiving portions of electrical terminals in the body project, a second, mating face opposite to the first face and affording access to the terminals, and a cover matable with the body to force conductors of a multiconductor flat cable placed between the body and the cover into the conductor receiving portions of the terminals, the transfer nest comprising; an elongate rectilinear frame having first and second opposite major sides; a first plunger mounted on bearings in the frame for sliding movement lengthwise thereof, and extending from said first side substantially at right angles to the frame; a second plunger mounted in bearings in the frame for sliding movement lengthwise thereof and extending from said first side in substantially parallel relationship with the first plunger; return means urging the plungers apart from one another; a first pair of spring loaded cable gripping plates one of which is mounted to each side of the first plunger and which cooperate to define a first channel for receiving the connector body; means for releasably retaining the connector body in the channel with said first face thereof directed towards the second plunger; a second pair of spring loaded cable gripping plates, one of which is mounted on each side of the second plunger, and which cooperate to define a second channel for receiving the connector cover, the plates of the second pair each being coplanar with a plate of the first pair and cooperating with the plates of the first pair to define a cable guiding slots; means in the second channel for releasably retaining the connector cover at a position opposite to said first face of the connector body and on the opposite side of the cable guiding slots to said first face; bearing surfaces on the plungers for engagement by the platens of a press to drive the plungers towards one another against the action of the return means, to mate the body and the cover about the cable; means for releasing the mated body and cover from the nest as the plungers are returned by the return means; and means on said second side of the frame for releasably connected the nest to a robot arm. 15. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 14, wherein said connecting means comprises an adaptor for releasably receiving a central spigot and a pin projecting from a rotary disc on the robot arm, and a release member projecting from the adaptor for actuation to release the spigot and the pin therefrom. 16. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 14, wherein the first plunger is provided with a bussing member and is depressable in relation to a connector body hold down member connected to the frame to engage the bussing member with the terminals of the connector body. 17. A transfer nest as claimed in claim 16, wherein the connector hold down member and the plates of said first pair are mounted on rods slidably engaging in bushings in the first plunger, the plates of said second pair being mounted on rods slidably engaging in bushings in the second plunger. 