Apparatus to control the automatic placing of material along a junction between surfaces with reference to the form and position of the junction including a tool controllably movable to deposit material progressively along the junction in response to a control signal, an imager linked to the movement of the tool to produce an image of the surfaces and junction, a system to extract from the image that portion unambiguously defining the junction form and position, an arrangement responsive to this image portion to derive the control signal to control the tool to move in a required manner along the junction to deposit material.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus to control the automatic placing of material along a junction between surfaces with reference to the form and position of the junction comprising: means controllably movable to deposit material progressively along the junction in response to a control signal; mean linked to said controllably movable means for producing an image of the surfaces and junction; means for extracting from the image that portion representing the junction of the surfaces, said extracting means including: means for constructing an array by scanning said surfaces and identifying the location of junction points, means for removing noise and hypothesizing missing data in said array and means for fitting line segments to the junction points of said array: means for examining the extracted portion to unambiguously define the junction form and position; and means responsive to said image portion to derive said control signal to control the means to deposit material to move in a required manner along said junction to deposit material. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which said array comprises pixel elements identified by a set of row indices and a set of column indices and the extracted portion is an array of pixels, one pixel for each of one of said sets of indices. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2 in which the image is further simplified to at least one straight-line segment defined by endpoints in the extracted array. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which the material to be deposited is a gas shielded arc weld bead. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1 which the means for producing an image includes a light source to produce a sheet of light of a specific wavelength and a camera to form an image of a region of the surfaces and junction including the line of incidence of the sheet of light, the sheet of light being inclined to the axis of the camera. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5 including a welding torch and in which the axis of the camera and the axis of the welding torch are parallel and at a specific spacing. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6 in which the axis of the source forming the sheet of light is inclined at angles of 15.degree. to 18.degree. to the axis of the camera in the plane containing the parallel torch and camera axes and in a plane at right angles thereto. 8. Apparatus according to claim 5 in which the means for producing the image includes in front of the light source and camera a removable and rotatable window of heat resistant material to obstruct weld spatter. 9. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which the means for examining the extracted image portion includes means to detect an image portion differing from an adjoining portion by more than a chosen threshold and redefine the detected image portion with reference to an adjoining image portion. 10. A method controlling an automatic arc welding process at a junction of surfaces, said method comprising the steps of: producing an image of a welding area containing the junction and illuminated by a light sheet; extracting from the image that portion representing the junction of the surfaces by constructing a hit array of the points at which said junction intersects the light sheet; cleaning the hit array by removing noise and hypothesizing missing data; examining the extracted portion to unambiguously define the form and position of the junction by fitting line segments to the hit array between end points of connected runs of hits and identifying the type of junction as any one of a butt, lap or T-joint from the configuration of the fitted line segments; and deriving control information from said image portion to control the welding process to operate along said junction. 11. A method of controlling an automatic arc welding process according to claim 10 including in extracting from the image the portion representing the junction form and position the filtering of image information by an electronic filter responsive to image information representing an image of the width produced by the light sheet. 