An acoustic transducer is connected to an electronically controllable time-dependent conductance so that energy may be rapidly applied to and extracted from the transducer and associated circuitry.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An acoustic ranging system comprising: a resonant circuit; a transducer connected to the resonant circuit, the transducer being alternately operative in the transmit and receive cycles of the ranging system; and means for controlling the resonant circuit during the transmit cycle including means for applying energy to drive the resonant circuit; and means responsive to a signal from said resonant circuit for selectively extracting energy from said resonant circuit; said means for applying energy to drive the resonant circuit comprises transconductance means having an input connected to said resonant circuit and an output connected to said resonant circuit and means for operating said transconductance means in positive feedback mode, and said means for extracting energy comprises said transconductance means and means for operating said transconductance means in negative feedback mode, said transconductance means being responsive to a signal on its input from said resonant circuit to supply a signal to its output for removing energy from said resonant circuit. 2. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the transconductance means comprises a first operational transconductance amplifier having a positive input terminal and an output terminal, the positive input terminal and the output terminal being connected to the resonant circuit. 3. Apparatus as in claim 2 wherein said transconductance means further comprises a second operational transconductance amplifier having a negative input terminal and an output terminal, the negative input terminal and the output terminal being connected to the resonant circuit. 4. An acoustic ranging system comprising: a resonant circuit; a transducer connected to the resonant circuit, the transducer being alternately operative in the transmit and receive cycles of the ranging system; and means for controlling the resonant circuit during the transmit cycle including means for applying energy to drive the resonant circuit whereby the transducer generates acoustic waves, and means for actively extracting energy from the resonant circuit whereby the resonant circuit is damped to a quiescent state; said means for applying energy to drive the resonant circuit and the means for extracting energy from the resonant circuit comprises a conductance circuit sequentially operative in positive and negative feedback modes; said conductance circuit comprising a first transconductance amplifier having a positive input terminal and an output terminal, the positive input terminal and the output terminal being connected to the resonant circuit, and a second operational transconductance amplifier having a negative input terminal and an output terminal, the negative input terminal and the output terminal being connected to the resonant circuit. 5. Apparatus as in claim 4 wherein the means for controlling the resonant circuit further comprises means for limiting the voltage applied to the first and second transconductance amplifiers, the voltage limiting means being connected between the resonant circuit and the input terminals of the first and second transconductance amplifiers. 6. Apparatus as in claim 5 wherein the voltage limiting means comprises first and second current sources, each current source having positive and negative terminals, the positive terminal of the first current source and the negative terminal of the second current source being connected to ground; first, second, third, and fourth diodes, the anodes of the first and second diodes being connected to the negative terminal of the first current source; the cathode of the first diode being connected to the anode of the third diode and the resonant circuit; the cathode of the second diode being connected to the anode of the fourth diode, the positive input terminal of the first transconductance amplifier and the negative input terminal of the second transconductance amplifier; the cathodes of the third and fourth diodes being connected to the positive terminal of the second current source; and fifth and sixth diodes, the anode of the fifth diode and the cathode of the sixth diode being connected to the junction between the second and fourth diodes, the cathode of the fifth diode and the anode of the sixth diode being connected to ground, 7. Apparatus as in claim 4 wherein the transducer is a capacitive device having first and second terminals, the second terminal of the transducer being connected to ground; and the resonant circuit further comprises an inductor and a capacitor connected in series between the first and second terminals of the transducer, the junction between the inductor and capacitor being connected to the input and output terminals of the transconductance amplifiers. 8. Apparatus as in claim 7 wherein the ranging system further comprises means for applying a bias voltage to the transducer. 9. Apparatus as in claim 8 wherein the bias voltage applying means comprises a voltage source, and a resistor connected in series between the voltgage source and the first terminal of the transducer. 10. Apparatus as in claim 4 wherein the transducer is a capacitive device having first and second terminals; and the resonant circuit further comprises an inductor and a capacitor connected in series between the first and second terminals of the transducer, and an operational amplifier having a negative input terminal and an output terminal; the negative input terminal of the operational amplifier being connected to the second terminal of the transducer and to the output terminals of the transconductance amplifiers; and the output terminal of the operational amplifier being connected to the input terminals of the transconductance amplifiers and to the junction between the inductor and the capacitor. 11. Apparatus as in claim 4 wherein the transducer is an electret having first and second terminals, the second terminal of the electret being connected to ground; and the resonant circuit further comprises an inductor connected between the first and second terminals of the electret, the junction between the inductor and the first terminal of the electret being connected to the input and output terminals of the transconductance amplifiers. 12. Apparatus as in claim 4 wherein the transducer is an electret having first and second terminals; and the resonant circuit further comprises an inductor connected between the first and second terminals of the electret, and an operational amplifier having a negative input terminal and an output terminal; the negative input terminal of the operational amplifier being connected to the second terminal of the electret and to the output terminals of the transconductance amplifiers; and the output terminal of the operational amplifier being connected to the input terminals of the transconductance amplifiers and to the junction between the inductor and the first terminal of the electret. 