An end effector suitable for use on a robotic arm associated therewith and coupled to a computer includes a universal mounting plate permitting the end effector to be mounted on the distal end of a robotic arm; a gripper mechanism slideably retained within the end effector is responsive to electronic command signals permitting the finger members disposed therein to cooperate with and removably retain a plurality of tools and components upon receiving computer controlled electronic command signal. The electronic command signal controls the driving power from a power source which is coupled to the end effector.
Claims Having thus set forth the nature of the invention, what is claimed is: 1. An end effector suitable for use on a robotic arm associated therewith, comprising, in combination: (a) means for removably affixing said end effector to the distal end of said robotic arm; (b) gripper means slideably retained within said end effector, said gripper means being adapted to be coupled to a power source and to cooperate with and removably retain a plurality of end effector tools and components upon receiving an electronic command signal, said gripper means includes a pair of finger members, each of said finger members having one end thereof affixed to a driving means operatively coupled to said power source for providing linear bi-directional displacement of said finger members, the other end of said finger members exending outwardly and adapted to engage and capture end effector tools and components therebetween, each of said finger members comprises; (i) a hollow body portion having at least one through aperture disposed proximate the distal end thereof, (ii) piston means disposed within said hollow body portion, said piston means having a movable rod member capable of movement proximate said body aperture sufficient to capture a member placed in said body aperture, and (iii) means for activating said piston means to capture said member placed in said body aperture; and (c) means for generating said electronic command signal, said electronic command signal being coupled to said gripper means for controlling the application of power from said power source. 2. A robotic end effector according to claim 1, wherein said piston means includes a pneumatic cylinder capable of driving said rod member to a first position. 3. A robotic end effector according to claim 2, further including spring biasing means coupled to said rod member for biasing said rod member to a second position. 4. A robotic end effector according to claim 1, wherein said piston means is an electrical solenoid capable of driving said rod member to a first position. 5. A robotic end effector according to claim 4, further including spring biasing means coupled to said rod member for biasing said rod member to a second position. 6. A robotic end effector according to claim 1, further including a hollow resilient boot member disposed over said finger members, said boot member being provided with a plurality of protrusions for enhancing the gripping power when contacting the inner and outer surface of an object. 7. A robotic end effector according to claim 1, wherein said member to be captured includes a portion of a tool. 8. An end effector suitable for use on a robotic arm associated therewith, comprising in combination: (A) means for removably affixing said end effector to said robotic arm, said affixing means including; (a) a universal mounting plate, (b) a plurality of apertures disposed in said plate adapted to cooperate with apertures provided on a plurality of robotic arms, and (c) means for connecting said universal mounting plate to said robotic arm; (B) gripper means slideably retained within said end effector, adapted to cooperate with and removably retain a plurality of tools and components upon receiving an electronic command signal, said gripper means including; (a) a pair of finger members having one end thereof affixed to a driving means operatively coupled to said power source, for providing linear, bi-directional displacement of said finger members, the other end of said finger members extendng outwardly and adapted to engage and capture tools and components, each of said finger members comprises; (i) a hollow body portion having at least one through aperture disposed proximate the distal end thereof, (ii) piston means disposed within said hollow portion, said piston means having a movable rod member capable of movement proximate said body aperture sufficient to capture a member placed in said body aperture, and (iii) means for activating said piston means to capture said capturable member; and (C) means for generating said command signal, said command signal being coupled to said gripper means for controlling the application of driving power from a power source adapted to be coupled thereto. 9. A robotic end effector according to claim 8, wherein said piston means includes a pneumatic cylinder capable of driving said rod member to a capturing position. 10. A robotic end effector according to claim 8 wherein said driving means comprises a body member and a slideable rod member disposed therein, said slideable rod member being movable in both directions relative to said body member, said one end of one of said pair of finger members being affixed to said body member, means for operatively coupling said one end of the other of said pair of finger members to said rod member, thereby providing bi-directional linear motion between said pair of finger members. 11. A robotic end effector according to claim 10, wherein said means for operatively coupling said one end of the other of said pair of finger members to said body member comprises: (a) housing member, having a centrally disposed longitudinal shaft disposed therein, said shaft having a centrally disposed pinion gear disposed therein with its axis of rotation perpendicular to said shaft; (b) first rack gear means, said body member being affixed to said first rack gear means, said first rack gear means slideably affixed and operatively coupled to and cooperating with said pinion gear; (c) second rack gear means, said one end of the other of said pair of finger members being affixed to said second rack gear means, said second rack gear means being slideably affixed and operatively coupled to and cooperating with said pinion gear on the opposite side thereof, so that movement in one direction of said first rack gear means will cause movement in the opposite direction of said second rack gear means. 12. A robotic end effector according to claim 11, further including first and second guide rail means disposed in said housing member parallel to said longitudinal shaft, said first guide rail means being slideably connected to one of said finger members proximate said one end of said pair of finger members to direct the movement of one of said finger members, said second guide rail means being disposed in said housing parallel to said longitudinal shaft, said second guide rail means being slideably connected to said other of said finger members proximate said one end of said pair of finger members to direct the movement of said other of said finger members. 13. A robotic end effector according to claim 11, wherein said centrally disposed longitudinal shaft in cross-section comprises an I-beam. 14. A robotic end effector according to claim 11, wherein said rack gear means includes a rack gear and screw adjustment means, said screw adjustment means affixing said rack gear to said one end of each of said pair of finger members and permitting adjustment to obtain alignment with said pinion gear. 