A torque-sensing rotary tool for use in bottle-capping, and other such applications. The tool (10) is characterized by independent motors (30 and 40) means for gripping and rotating bottles or the like and a rotation-counter which forms means, with associated circuitry (FIG. 9), to determine when an object, e.g. a bottle cap, may be safely lifted by automatic machinery, e.g. by robot means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Unwinding apparatus for grasping and holding an object and rotating said object, said apparatus having a gripper assembly mounted for rotation on a turntable and comprising gripper means and an actuating means to open and close said gripper means; first motor means for rotating said turntable either clockwise or counterclockwise; a second motor means for moving said gripper means, acting through said gripper actuating means, between a closed position and an open position; a counter assembly forming means to count the number of revolutions made by each said motor means; and electrical motor control circuitry associated with at least one motor to form means to control said one motor in response to the amount of torque or pressure exerted on said object by said gripper actuating means on said turntable. 2. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said counter assembly includes a rotatable member which serves as means to monitor the number of rotations by one motor and is attached for rotation with motive action of one said motor and is also mounted for rotation as said motor is rotated by another said motor. 3. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein the amperage from each motor is utilized as a signal indicative of pressure exerted on said object. 4. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said electrical control circuitry associated with at least one motor controls said motor in response to at least one of (a) amperage drawn by said controlled motor or by the number of rotation of said controlled motor noted by said counter assembly. 5. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said electrical control circuitry comprises a strain guage mounted on said gripper means. 6. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said gripper means is adapted to hold glass bottles. 