An ultrasonic decontamination robot removes radioactive contamination from the internal surface of the inlet and outlet headers, divider plate, tube sheet, and lower portions of tubes of a nuclear power plant steam generator. A programmable microprocessor controller guides the movement of a robotic arm mounted in the header manway. An ultrasonic transducer having a solvent delivery subsystem through which ultrasonic action is achieved is moved by the arm over the surfaces. A solvent recovery suction tube is positioned within the header to remove solvent therefrom while avoiding interference with the main robotic arm. The solvent composition, temperature, pressure, viscosity, and purity are controlled to optimize the ultrasonic scrubbing action. The ultrasonic transducer is controlled at a power density, frequency, and on-off mode cycle such as to optimize scrubbing action within the range of transducer-to-surface distance and solvent layer thickness selected for the particular conditions encountered. The robot is also equipped with an ultrasonic position-sensing transducer for determining standoff distance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of removing radioactive contamination from a primary fluid header of a steam generator between periods of active operation thereof, the header having a sealable access manway therein to permit access to interior surfaces of the header, comprising the steps of inserting through the header manway into the interior thereof a robotic arm having a base portion sized to fit sealably in said manway, an ultrasonic decontamination head disposed to be movable at an end of said robotic arm, a solvent supply tube connected to said decontamination head, and a fluid removal conduit disposed at a low point in the interior of said header; sealing said base portion in said header manway; connecting a remotely positioned solvent processing device to said supply tube and said fluid removal conduit; and connecting a remotely positioned robotic controller to said robotic arm to supply ultrasonic power to said ultrasonic decontamination head and to supply position signals to said robotic arm to position the ultrasonic decontamination head against at least one of said surfaces while fluid solvent is supplied through said supply tube to said head and said ultrasonic decontamination head produces ultrasonic acoustic waves such that any radioactive surface contaminants are loosened and flushed from said at least one surface and the loosened contaminants in said fluid solvent are removed from said interior by said fluid removal conduit and transferred to said solvent processing device, said ultrasonic decontamination head further generating, in addition to said ultrasonic acoustic waves for loosening surface contaminants, additional ultrasonic waves for sensing distance of said head from an interior surface of said header, and sensing said additional ultrasonic waves with a sensor in said head; and the method further comprising determining a standoff distance of said head from said surface based on the sensed ultrasonic waves. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of sensing radiation intensity of said surface with radiation detector in said head, and monitoring the amount and type of radiation on said interior surface as a cleaning cycle of said ultrasonic decontamination head is taking place. 3. The method according to claim 2, further comprising automatically calculating, by means of a digital computer system, said stand-off distance for said decontamination head and radiation information; and altering solvent composition, solvent temperature, solvent pressure, solvent flow rate, and relative cleanliness with respect to particulate concentrations suspended therein to maximize cleaning efficiency. 4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising automatically controlling the frequency, power density, pulse amplitude, and duration of the ultrasonic power supplied to said decontamination head and automatically controlling the standoff distance of said decontamination head. 5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising filling said header with a liquid to submerge said robotic arm, and carrying out operation of said ultrasonic decontamination head while submerged in said liquid. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein said liquid comprises said fluid solvent. 