A circuit board is guided into the correct position over the testing location of a test fixture by means of at least one guide located outside and near to the circumference of the testing location. The surface of the guide which faces the testing location is sloped outwards and upwards, the guide preferably being conical in shape. In test fixtures provided with tooling guide pins which fit through tooling holes on the circuit board for the purpose of accurate positioning over the test location, the lower part of the guide to approximately the same height as the pins is cylindrical, the upper part of the guide being conical.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for guiding a circuit board which is free to move in two or more degrees of freedom onto a testing location on a test fixture, comprising: at least one substantially rigid, substantially smooth guide pin adapted to engage the circuit board so as to guide the circuit board onto the testing location, each guide pin is vertical to the plane of the testing location for a predetermined height, and at least one substantially rigid, substantially smooth guide located outside and near to the circumference of the testing location, each guide having a surface which faces the testing location and is vertical to the plane of the testing location for a height approximately equal to the height of the guide pins and thereabove is sloped upwards and outwards away from the testing location, a base of this surface being so located that, when the corresponding edge of the circuit board is lying against this base, the circuit board is correctly positioned so as to engage the guide pin. 2. Apparatus for guiding a circuit board which is free to move in two or more degrees of freedom onto a testing location, as described in claim 1, wherein the sloping part of the surface of the guide is at an angle of between about 5.degree. and 20.degree. to the vertical. 3. Apparatus for guiding a circuit board which is free to move in two or more degrees of freedom onto a testing location, as described in claim 1, wherein the guide is in the shape of a cylinder surmounted by a cone with its apex upwards, the base diameter of the cone being at least equal to the diameter of the cylinder. 4. Apparatus for guiding a circuit board which is free to move in two or more degrees of freedom onto a testing location, as described in claim 3, wherein the angle of the cone is between about 10.degree. and 40.degree.. 5. Apparatus for guiding a circuit board which is free to move in two or more degrees of freedom onto a testing location, as described in claims 1 or 3, wherein at least one of the guides is affixed to the test fixture by fixing means which permit adjustments of the position of the guide relative to the circumference of the testing location. 6. Apparatus for guiding a circuit board which is free to move in two or more degrees of freedom onto a testing location, as described in claim 3, wherein at least one of the guides is affixed to the test fixture by fixing means which permit adjustments of the position of the guide relative to the circumference of the testing location, the fixing means comprising a screw inserted substantially vertically upwards through the upper surface of the circuit board test fixture into the base of the guide at a point not at the center of the base. 