A laser shielding device is disclosed, having two spaced-apart layers of shielding material defining a sealed chamber between the two. At least one layer will degrade in the presence of an impinging laser beam, creating a hole through the layer. A pressure change in the chamber is sensed and signaled to a machine controller to stop the lasing operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A shielded laser robot system, comprising in combination: (a) a work zone target; (b) robotic means proximate to said work zone target for automatically wielding a laser beam through multi-angle spatial orientations while aiming said beam at said work zone target; and (c) a laser beam shielding device proximate to said work zone target, said shielding device comprising: (1) a first shielding layer comprised of material capable of absorbing at least a portion of a laser light beam and degrading in the presence of said beam, (2) a second shielding layer, (3) means for spacing said first and second layers from one another and for creating a substantially enclosed chamber between the two layers, (4) a pressure source port in fluid communication with said chamber, and (5) means for sensing and signalling a pressure change in said chamber wherein a pressure level may be maintained in said chamber until said first shielding layer is degraded through, causing a pressure chamber leak. 2. The laser shielding device of claim 1, wherein said first layer is comprised of thermoplastic material. 3. The laser shielding device of claim 1, wherein said means for sensing and signaling comprises, in part, a pressure switch connected to said chamber. 4. The laser shielding device of claim 3, wherein said means for sensing and signaling further comprises, in part, an alarm. 5. The laser shielding device of claim 3, wherein said means for sensing and signaling further comprises, in part, a machine inhibit signal connected to a machine controller. 6. The laser shielding device of claim 1, further comprising support means for positioning said laser shielding device with respect to a laser working zone. 7. The laser shielding device of claim 1, wherein said first and second layers are substantially flat sheets. 8. A shielded laser robot system, comprising in combination: (a) a work zone target; (b) robotic means proximate to said work zone target for automatically wielding a laser beam through multi-angle spatial orientations while aiming said beam at said work zone target; and (c) a laser beam shielding device proximate to said work zone target, said shielding device comprising: (1) a first shielding layer comprised of thermoplastic material capable of absorbing at least a portion of a CO.sub.2 laser beam having a wavelength in the range of 9-11 micrometers and degrading in the presence of said beam, (2) a second shielding layer, (3) means for spacing said first and second layers from one another and for creating a substantially enclosed chamber between the two layers, (4) a pressure source port in fluid communication with said chamber, (5) a pressure switch for sensing and signaling a pressure change in said chamber, (6) a pressure source means for maintaining a pressure level in said chamber, and (7) means for supporting and positioning said shielding layers with respect to a laser working zone. 