An exchangeable multiple function end effector tool suitable for use on the distal end of a robotic end effector includes, in combination; a device for removably affixing the multiple function and effector tool onto a pair of extending fingers provided on a robotic end effector. The multiple function tool is provided with an apparatus for acquiring a first element or component and releasably retaining same and further incorporates a second gripping device which is capable of acquiring a second element or component and releasably retaining same in the tool. Provision is made for engaging and disengaging the elements either separately or in unison. Movement, assembly or disassembly of the elements remains a function of the end effector and its control mechanisms.
Claims Having thus set forth the nature of the invention, what is claimed is: 1. An exchangeable multiple function end effector tool suitable for use with a robotic end effector having a pair of extending fingers, including indexing means and locking means, disposed on the distal end of a robotic arm, comprising in combination: (A) means for removably affixing said multiple function end effector tool to said pair of extending fingers; (B) multiple function tool means having said tool affixing means disposed thereon, said multiple function tool means including; (a) first gripping means for acquiring a first element and releasably retaining said first element in said multiple function tool, said first gripping means including, (i) spring means for urging said first gripping means to its lowermost position, (ii) collar means disposed on said first gripping means for limiting the travel of said first gripping means between its lowermost and uppermost positions, and (iii) sensing means disposed proximate said first gripping means for providing an electrical signal when said first gripping means is in its uppermost and lowermost position; and (b) second gripping means for acquiring a second element and releasably retaining said second element in said multiple function tool. 2. An exchangeable multi-function end effector tool according to claim 1, wherein said sensing means indicates when said tool means has engaged an element. 3. An exchangeable multi-function end effector tool according to claim 2 wherein said sensing means is a photoelectric sensing means. 