A quick release adapter for releasably mounting a tool or the like on a support includes a holding fixture adapted to be mounted on the support and having a slot therein for slideably receiving a mounting plate upon which there is secured a tool or the like. The mounting plate is releasably locked in the holding fixture by a locking element which extends through a through-hole in the fixture. The locking element is carried by a lever which is pivotally mounted on the back of the fixture and includes a handle which may be manipulated to move the locking element into and out of locking engagement with one edge of the mounting plate.
Claims I claim: 1. A releasable coupling comprising: a mounting plate; a tool holder secured to the front face of said mounting plate and adapted to releasably grasp a tool therein to secure the tool to the front face of said mounting plate; a holding fixture defining a vertically extending slot at its front face generally conforming in size and configuration to said mounting plate for slidably and snugly receiving said mounting plate therein with the rear face of the mounting plate juxtaposed to and sliding on the front face of the holding fixure; means on said holding fixture for releasably securing the rear face of said fixture to a support member; a stop on said holding fixture adjacent the bottom of said slot including surface areas for engaging the bottom edge of said mounting plate as the latter arrives at the bottom of said slot and thereby support substantially all of the weight of said mounting plate and associated tool; and locking means on said holding fixture for releasably engaging the top edge of said mounting plate with the bottom edge of said mounting plate engaging said stop to preclude withdrawal of said mounting plate from said slot. 2. A releasable coupling comprising: a mounting plate; tool holder means on the front face of said mounting plate adapted to releasably secure a tool to the front face of said mounting plate; a holding fixture defining a vertically extending slot at its front face generally conforming in size and configuration to said mounting plate for slidably and snugly receiving said mounting plate therein with the rear face of the mounting plate juxtaposed to and sliding on the front face of the holding fixture; means on said holding fixture for releasably securing the rear face of said fixture to a support member; means on said holding fixture for locking said mounting plate in said slot, said locking means including an elongate locking lever pivotally mounted on said holding fixture, said locking lever having a locking element shiftable into blocking relationship with the sliding path of said mounting plate upon pivoting of said locking lever, the longitudinal axis of said lever extending transverse to the path of sliding movement of said mounting plate within said slot; and a stop on said holding fixture adjacent the bottom of said slot including surface areas for engaging the bottom edge of said mounting plate as the latter arrives at the bottom of said slot and thereby support substantially all of the weight of said mounting plate and associated tool. 3. The coupling of claim 2, including means carried by said holding fixture for normally biasing said locking element into said blocking relationship. 4. The coupling of claim 3, wherein said biasing means includes a spring, said locking element includes a depression for receiving said spring therein, and means releasably secured to said holding fixture for retaining said spring in said depression. 5. The coupling of claim 2 wherein said front face of said holding fixture includes a through hole therein therough which said locking element normally extends into said blocking relationship to said mounting plate, said locking element being disposed adjacent the top of said slot and including surface areas extending across said slot and engageable with the top of said mounting plate when the latter is fully inserted in said slot. 6. The coupling of claim 5, wherein said holding fixture includes a groove in the rear face thereof within which said locking lever is disposed. 7. The coupling of claim 1 wherein said tool holder comprises a clamp on the front face of said mounting plate for releasably holding said tool on said mounting plate. 8. A quick release adapter for releasably mounting a tool or the like on a support comprising: a holding member adapted to be connected to one of said support or said tool and including a slot therein; a mounting plate adapted to be connected with the other of said support or said tool and adapted to be slidably inserted in one direction into one end of said slot, said mounting plate having a size and configuration generally conforming to the size and configuration of said slot so as to fit snugly in said slot and including first and second opposite ends, said holding member including a through-hole therein adjacent said first end of said mounting plate with the latter inserted in said slot; a locking device shiftably mounted on said holding member and including a locking element disposed within said through-hole and shiftable from a released position in which it clears said first end of the inserted mounting plate, whereby said mounting plate may be slidably withdrawn in the other direction from said slot, to a locked position in which it engages said one end of said inserted mounting plate, whereby to prevent said mounting plate from being slidably withdrawn from said slot; and stop means on said holding member extending across the other end of said slot and operative to blockingly engage said second end of said mounting plate as the letter is inserted in said one direction into said slot through said one end thereof, whereby to limit and define the inserted position of said mounting plate in said slot. 9. The adapter of claim 8, including means for biasing said locking element toward said locked position and a lever pivotally mounted on said holding member, said locking element being mounted on said lever. 10. The adapter of claim 9, wherein said locking element includes a depression for retaining said biasing means therein. 11. The adapter of claim 8, wherein said mounting member includes an essentially flat plate and said holding member includes a generally flat face and a plurality of L-shaped legs extending outwardly from said face for engaging and retaining said plate. 