A robotic system for handling components such as wire leads is disclosed. The system includes a multi-axis programmable machine, often referred to as a robot, to manipulate a chuck mechanism to acquire components such as a lead wire for example and position this wire in a desired predetermined location. Typical applications include the insertion of wires having a connector pin into a multi-pin connector.
Claims We claim: 1. A component holding chuck useable with mechanized assembly apparatus, having: (a) a plurality of jaw members each having interior and exterior edges supported in a housing such that selected portions of said exterior edges of said jaws contact the interior surface of said housing such that said jaw members are rotatable through a determinable angle thereby causing said jaw members to selectively open and close as said jaw members rotate; (b) means for applying an outwardly extending force to said interior edges of said jaw members; (c) resilient means disposed to apply an opening force to said exterior edges of said jaw members; and (d) means for selectively applying a closing force to said jaw members, such that when said closing force exceeds said opening force said jaws close. 2. A robotic component handling system including: (a) a multi-axis programmable arm; (b) a component handling (gripping) chuck affixed to said multi-axis programmable arm, said chuck including: (1) a plurality of jaw members having interior and exterior edges supported by a cylindrical housing having interior and exterior surfaces with selected portions of the interior surface of said housing contacting selected portions of said exterior edges, each of said jaw members being rotatable through a predetermined angle such that said jaws selectively move between open and close positions as said jaw members selectively rotate through said predetermined angle; (2) first resilient means disposed to encircle first ends of said jaw members to apply an opening force to said jaw members; (3) second resilient means disposed to apply a force to the interior edges of said jaw members to maintain selected portions of said exterior edges of said jaw members in contact with said interior surface of said housing; (c) drive cam means reciprocally moving substantially parallel to the major axis of said jaw members to selectively apply a force to said interior edges to drive said jaw members such that they rotate through said predetermined angle thereby causing said jaw members to move between said open and said closed positions; and (d) control means to selectively move said programmable arm and for controlling said drive cam means. 3. A system in accordance with claim 2 wherein said cylindrical housing includes a plurality of grooves in its interior wall, said grooves being adapted to cooperate with said jaw members to provide mechanical support to said jaw members. 4. A system in accordance with claim 3 wherein each of said jaw members included a gripping end and a gripping shoe affixed thereto such that said gripping shoe is rotatable through a predetermined angle permitting said gripping shoe to adapt to the surface of the component to be handled. 5. A system in accordance with claim 4 wherein said housing includes an opening therein specifically adapted to permit components to be loaded into said chuck. 6. A system in accordance with claim 2 wherein each of said jaw members includes an outwardly angled upper portion and said drive cam includes an inwardly angled portion, said inwardly angled portion of said drive cam contacting the inner edge of said outwardly angled portion of said jaw member such that when said drive cam reciprocally moves said jaws are opened and closed. 