A dual axis gripper for use with a robot arm having a rotatable wrist is provided with a first and second gripper. A bracket couples the first gripper to the robot arm in line with an axis about which one form of robot wrist rotation occurs. The bracket also couples a second gripper to the robot arm perpendicular to the first axis of rotation. The wrist rotation also includes rotation about a horizontal axis perpendicular to the first axis of rotation. Both the grippers are provided with a fixed jaw and a linearly actuated movable jaw so that both grippers form compliant type grippers. By rotating the grippers through the first axis of rotation and about the second axis of rotation, the two grippers may interchange positions and are capable of moving parts between any locations within a defined work envelope adjacent the end of the robot arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A dual axis gripper for use with a robot arm for part manipulation, the arm having a first rotatable wrist arranged for rotation about a horizontal first axis passing perpendicularly through an end of the arm and a second rotatable wrist coupled to said first wrist and arranged for rotation about a second axis perpendicular to and passing through the horizontal first axis, the gripper comprising: first and second gripper means; and bracket means for coupling said first gripper means to the robot arm colinear with the second axis and for coupling said second gripper means to the robot arm perpendicular to the second axis said first and second gripper means being conjointly rotatable about the first axis, said first gripper means being rotatable about the second axis such that a part held by said first gripper means is rotated about an axis passing through the part, and said second gripper means being rotatable about the second axis such that a part held by said second gripper means is rotated in a plane normal to the first axis and at a constant radial dimension from the first axis. 2. The dual axis gripper of claim 1 wherein said first and second gripper means each comprise: an overarm having a first member ending in a fixed jaw, said jaw having a gripping surface; moveable jaw means having a gripping surface; linear actuator means for urging said moveable jaw means towards and away from said fixed jaw, with the gripping surfaces of the fixed jaw and moveable jaw means remaining parallel to one another; means for securing said linear actuator means to the robot arm; and means for mounting said overarm to said means for securing said linear actuator means. 3. The gripper of claim 2 wherein said fixed jaw gripping surface is substantially at right angles with said first member. 4. A dual axis gripper for use with a robot arm for part manipulation, the arm having a first rotatable wrist arranged for rotation about a horizontal first axis passing perpendicularly through an end of the arm and a second rotatable wrist coupled to said first wrist and arranged for rotation about a second axis perpendicular to and passing through the horizontal first axis, the gripper comprising: first and second gripper means; means for rotating said second gripper means; and bracket means for coupling said first gripper means to the robot arm colinear with the second axis and for coupling said means for rotating said second gripper means to said first gripper means so that said second gripper means extends perpendicular to the second axis and said second gripper means is rotatable about a longitudinal axis passing therethrough and perpendicular to the second axis. 5. The dual axis gripper of claim 4 wherein said first and second gripper means each comprise: an overarm having a first member ending in a fixed jaw, said jaw having a gripping surface; movable jaw means having a gripping surface; linear actuator means for urging said movable jaw means towards and away from said fixed jaw with the gripping surfaces of the fixed jaw and moveable jaw means remaining parallel to one another; means for securing said linear actuator means to the robot arm; and means for mounting said overarm to said means for securing said linear actuator means. 6. The gripper of claim 5 wherein said fixed jaw gripping surface is substantially at right angles with said first member. 