A tensile testing apparatus comprises a magazine or holder for test specimens. The specimens are disposed horizontally with their end portions constrained by U-shaped channels. Slots at the lower ends of the channels are provided for pulling the lowermost test specimen therethrough under the action of robot fingers, the fingers pulling the specimen to a 90 degree slide whereupon the fingers are lowered and the test specimen slides down the slide and is rotated 90 degrees before coming to rest on seats at the ends of the slides. The now retracted robot fingers are turned 90 degrees and spread apart for movement toward the test specimen which is then gripped and lifted upwardly from the seats and then transferred to a testing machine, tested and then removed from the testing machine.
Claims The invention is claimed as follows: 1. In a testing apparatus, a magazine for holding a plurality of elongated test specimens, said magazine comprising opposed upstanding members spaced apart and having channels for receiving the opposite end portions of the test specimens so that a group of test specimens is horizontally disposed but is in vertically stacked relationship and spans the space between said channels, a structure on which said upstanding members are mounted, said structure and said upstanding members defining slots at the lower ends of each channel to provide an escape passage for test specimens exiting said channels at their lower ends, a shoulder adjacent to each said slot and upon which the lowermost test specimen rests preparatory to removal of said lowermost test specimen from the magazine, seats on each upstanding member for receiving the exiting test specimen, said seats being clear of the associated slot and shoulder, said slots being sized for one-by-one removal therethrough of said test specimens; and an article transfer device having fingers for engaging each of said specimens when the specimen becomes the lowermost specimen of the stack and serving to withdraw said specimen from the stack through the slots, slide means on said magazine permitting specimens that are withdrawn through said slots to move along the slide means one-by-one onto said seats, and means for moving said fingers to a position engaging said test specimen on said seat. 2. In a testing apparatus according to claim 1, said slide means including sections substantially 90 degrees in extent and arranged such that the test specimens slide freely down the 90 degree sections to said seats. 3. In a testing apparatus according to claim 1, said fingers having cutouts for receiving the test specimens in a manner to permit the fingers to be moved so as to pull a test specimen through said slots. 4. In a testing apparatus according to claim 3, in which said transfer mechanism has means for moving said fingers from a first position wherein the fingers support the test specimen substantially at its lower horizontal surface as the specimen is pulled through said slots to a second position in which the fingers engage opposed surfaces of the test specimens that are substantially at right angles to said lower horizontal surface. 5. A magazine for tensile test bar specimens comprising opposed upstanding members spaced apart and having upstanding channels for receiving the opposite end portions of elongated test specimens so that a group of the test specimens is horizontally disposed but is in vertically stacked relationship and spans the space between said channels, a structure upon which said upstanding members are mounted, said structure and said upstanding members defining slots at the lower ends of each channel to provide a passage for test specimens exiting the said channels at their lower ends, a shoulder adjacent to each said slot and upon which the lowermost test specimen rests preparatory to removal of said lowermost test specimen from the magazine, seats on each upstanding member for receiving the exiting test specimens, each seat being offset from the associated slot and shoulder and at least part of the region between each seat and its associated slot being a slide that permits the test specimens to move from the shoulders to the seats and rest on the seats in a different orientation from its orientation on the shoulder, means for moving the test specimen, said slots being horizontally aligned and being sized for one-by-one removal of test specimens therethrough. 6. A magazine according to claim 5, in which said slide is comprised of opposed arcuate surfaces which are aligned and each of substantially 90 degrees in extent. 7. A magazine according to claim 5, further including constraining members cooperating with said slides to maintain the test specimens on the slides as the test specimen travels therealong. 