A robot system is disclosed comprising a robot having a plurality of articulated members, actuator jacks for effecting movements (locomotion or other operations) of the articulated members, and a data processing unit controlling the jack actuators. One articulated member is pivotally mounted about three separate axes intersecting at a first fixed point. Two jack actuators are provided for the one articulated member. Two ball joints articulate the jack actuators to the one articulated member about two points separate from and out of alignment with the first fixed point and two other ball joints articulate the jack actuators about respective second and third points also separate from and out of alignment with the first fixed point. The one articulated member comprises a perpendicular plate, the two points articulated to the jack actuators being disposed at the plate and the axes of the two jack actuators lying in mutually perpendicular planes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot system comprising a robot having a plurality of articulated members, actuating means for effecting movements of said articulated members, and a data processing unit for controlling said actuating means, one of said articulated members being pivotally mounted about three separate axes intersecting at a first fixed point, said actuating means for said one articulated member comprising two jack actuators, two ball joint means for articulating said jack actuators to said one articulated member about two points separate from and out of alignment with said first fixed point, and two other ball joint means for articulating said two jack actuators about respective second and third fixed points separate from and out of alignment with said first fixed point. 2. The robot system of claim 1, wherein said data processing unit comprises a central microprocessor, manual control means for selectively actuating said central microprocessor and substituting another microprocessor therefor, and a keyboard control for controlling said other microprocessor. 3. The robot system of claim 1 especially intended for moving a body such as a truck, a prefabricated building or a container, wherein said robot is a self-contained module including a power unit, two said articulated members being provided on said power unit, said power unit comprising clamping means for clamping said module on said body, a control device and a telecommunications channel for connection with said data processing unit, said channel being at the end of said clamping means. 4. The robot system of claim 1, especially intended for moving a body such as a truck, a prefabricated building or a container, wherein said robot is a self-contained module including a power unit, said power unit comprising a drive articulated member provided on said power unit, clamping means for clamping said module on said body, a control device and a communications channel for connection with the data processing unit, said channel being at the end of said clamping means. 5. The robot system of claim 1, said robot comprising a plurality of legs consisting of said articulated members, a tubular body, wherein seating is provided on said tubular body. 6. The robot system of claim 1, said robot comprising a plurality of legs consisting of said articulated members, a tubular body, wherein display means are provided on said tubular body. 7. The robot system of claim 1 specially intended for moving a modular building structure including modular housing units, the modular housing units being of the type having lateral and front plates adapted to be clamped by said articulated members for displacements between locations, wherein said robot further comprises means for clamping said articulated members on the clamping plates. 8. The robot system of claim 1, wherein said robot comprises a head, a body and a collar therebetween, said collar comprising rigid overlapping elements, sealing means provided between said overlapping elements, and a jack actuator for controlling the position of said head relative to said body. 9. The robot system of claim 1, wherein said articulated members form legs of the robot for recreational purposes and wherein said robot comprises a head, a body and a collar therebetween, mandible articulated members being mounted on said head. 10. The robot system of claim 1, further comprising dorsal fins mounted on the back of said robot defining a backrest and a guardrail. 11. The robot system of claim 1, wherein said robot comprises a plurality of legs consisting of articulated members, a central cabin, at least one rear cabin and a power unit under said central cabin. 12. The robot system of claim 1, wherein said articulated members function as legs for motion of the robot on a ground and wherein said robot comprises ballast containers for selectively controlling diving and equilibrium of said robot. 13. The robot system of claim 1, wherein said robot comprises a shell including a tool/accessory chest therein, tool/accessory changing means at the free ends of said articulated members including friction surfaces, and a servo loop for controlling the operation of said tool/accessory changing means. 14. The robot system of claim 1, wherein said articulated members comprise a bearing in which a universal joint is mounted comprising other bearings, said bearing being equipped with rotation sensors. 15. The robot system of claim 1, wherein said first fixed point is disposed between said jack actuator means and a free end of said one articulated member. 16. The robot system of claim 1, wherein said one of said articulated members is mounted by a universal joint and said first fixed point is the center of said joint and wherein said joint is disposed between said jack actuator means and a free end of said one articulated member. 17. The robot system of claim 1, wherein two said articulated members are provided, means for coordinating movements of said two articulated members for holding articles, and a tool/accessory equipping one of said articulated members. 18. A robot system comprising a robot having a plurality of articulated members, actuating means for effecting movement of said articulated members, and a data processing unit for controlling said actuating means, one of said articulated members being pivotally mounted about three separate axis intersecting at a first fixed point, said actuating means for said one articulated member comprising two jack actuators, two ball joint means for articulating said jack actuators to said one articulated member about two points separate from and out of alignment with said first fixed point, and two other ball joint means for articulating said two jack actuators about respective second and third fixed points separate from and out of alignment with said first fixed point, wherein said one articulated member comprises a plate perpendicular to its longitudinal axis, said second and third points at which said two ball joint means are articulated to said two jack actuators being disposed at said plate, the axes of said two jack actuators lying in mutually perpendicular planes. 19. A robot system comprising a robot having a plurality of articulated members, actuating means for effecting movements of said articulated members and a data processing unit for controlling said actuating means, one of said articulated members being pivotally mounted about three separate axes intersecting at a first fixed point, said actuating means for said one articulated member comprising two jack actuators, two ball joint means for articulating said jack actuators to said one articulated member about two points separate from and out of alignment with said first fixed point and two other ball joint means for articulating said two jack actuators about respective second and third points separate from and out of alignment with said first fixed point, said robot further comprising a head, a body and a collar therebetween, the collar comprising rigid overlapping elements, fluid controlled bladders between said overlapping elements for exerting variable pressure thereon and pulley and cable means for maintaining the distance between said head and said body. 