A system for sorting parts wherein a part to be sorted is irradiated with wave energy of a single frequency (or very narrow band of frequencies) which interacts with the part. Wave energy emanating from the part is sensed at many spatially separated places to generate an electric signal representative of a characteristic of the amplitude and phase of the detected wave energy at each place. The electric signal so generated is compared with a pre-established signal and any differences therebetween are determined to establish whether the part is within acceptable limits in terms of geometric characteristics, e.g., size, material characteristics and orientation. The part is then acted upon on the basis of the comparison.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for parts sorting, that comprises: parts feeding means to feed a part into a sensing region; means for transmitting continuous wave energy of a single frequency through the medium surrounding the part in the sensing region where wave energy ineracts with said part; sensor means positioned to detect wave energy that interacts with the part by virtue of the wave energy directed thereupon, said sensor means comprising a multiplicity of spaced-apart sensors disposed in an array to receive the wave energy at a multiplicity of places after interaction with the part and propagation through said medium to the sensor means; means for processing the received wave energy into information for each sensor of the sensor means; means for analyzing said information from the multiplicity of sensors and operable to generate a single sampling signal output representative of a characteristic of said part; and means for sorting connected to receive said single sampling signal output and operable to sort said part in response to said characteristic; in which the continuous wave energy is sinusoidal wave energy of a single frequency and in which the multiplicity of spaced-apart sensors are sensitive to specific regions of the part, each sensor providing an electrical output containing at least one of amplitude and phase information which is weighted for each sensor on the basis of the characteristic being sensed, said electrical output being sinusoidal signals whose amplitude and phase vary according to the characteristics of the part. 2. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said characteristic is the orientation of said part and wherein the means for analyzing is operable to apply a weighting function to said information. 3. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said transmitted wave energy is acoustic wave energy and electromagnetic wave energy, a portion of said sensors being arrayed acoustic sensors that receive the acoustic wave energy, the remainder of said sensors being arraved electromagnetic wave sensors that receive the electromagnetic wave energy. 4. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said feeding means allows only one said part at a time to enter said sensing region. 5. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein sorting is accomplished by a parts manipulating device whose actions are changed in response to said characteristic. 6. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said means for processing comprises multiplexing means such that the signals from several of said sensors are processed sequentially. 7. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said means for processing comprises multiple processing circuits which simultaneously obtain said information from at least two of said sensors. 8. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said means for processing includes filtering means to reject frequency components of said received wave energy which are not at said single transmitted frequency of wave energy. 9. Apparatus as in claim 8 wherein said filtering is accomplished by combining sequential digital samples of said received wave energy. 10. Apparatus as in claim 1 that includes means for maintaining fixed a physical property of the medium. 11. Apparatus as in claim 10 wherein the property is the temperature of the medium. 12. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein changes in at least one of the properties of the medium in said sensing region through which said wave energy is transmitted is compensated for by changing the single frequency of continuous wave transmission. 13. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the temperature of said multiplicity of sensors is held fixed by temperature control means. 14. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said characteristic is the shape of said part. 15. Apparatus as in claim 1 which includes a parts storage means for supplying said parts feeding means. 16. Apparatus as in claim 1 in which the means for transmitting continuous wave energy includes means to transmit electromagnetic wave energy through said medium and in which the sensor means comprises an array of electromagnetic wave energy sensors. 17. Apparatus as in claim 16 in which the array of electromagnetic wave sensors comprises several inductive sensors which receive the electromagnetic wave energy transmitted from the part back through the medium to provide a signal which contains information with respect to an electromagnetic characteristic of the part and in which the analyzing means is operable to generate a sampling signal which include the information with respect to the electromagnetic characteristic. 18. Apparatus as in claim 16 in which the array of electromagnetic wave sensors comprises several capacitive sensors which receive the electromagnetic wave energy transmitted from the part back through the medium to provide a signal which contains information with respect to an electromagnetic characteristic of the part and in which the analyzing means is operable to generate a sampling signal which includes the information with respect to the electromagnetic characteristic. 19. Appartus according to claim 1 in which the continuous wave energy is sinusoidal acoustic wave energy of a single frequency and in which the multiplicity of spaced-apart sensors are acoustic sensors deployed in a linear array. 20. Apparatus for parts sorting, that comprises: parts feeding means to feed a part into a sensing region; means for transmitting continuous wave energy of a single frequency through the meduim surrounding the part in the sensing region where the wave energy interacts with said part; sensor means positioned to detect wave energy that interacts with the part by virtue of the wave energy directed thereupon, said sensor means comprising a multiplicity of spaced-apart sensors disposed in an array to receive the wave energy at a multiplicity of places after interaction with the part and proragation through said medium to the sensor means; means for processing the received wave energy into information for each sensor of the sensor means; means for analvzing said information from the multiplicity of sensors and operable to generate a single sampling signal output representative of a characteristic of said part; and means for sorting connected to receive said single sampling signal output and operable to sort said part in response to said characteristic; wherein said means for sorting includes means for recycling a portion of the parts to the parts feeding means, based upon said characteristic, wherein the single sampling signal is designated X, and wherein the means for analyzing the information from the combined sensors of the sensing means to derive the single sampling signal X uses calculations in accordance with the general form: ##EQU3## X is the desired output. g is a functional relationship W.sub.i is a weighting function chosen for each sensor, f is another functional relationship, A.sub.i is the amplitude of each sensor signal, .theta..sub.i is the phase of each sensor signal, and N is the number of sensors. 21. Apparatus as in claim 20 wherein said characteristic is the orientation of said part. 22. Apparatus for parts sorting, that comprises: parts feeding means to feed a part into a sensing region; means for transmitting continous wave energy of a single frequency through the medium surrounding the part in the sensing region where the wave energy interacts with said part; sensor means positioned to detect wave energy that interacts with the part by virtue of the wave energy directed thereupon, said sensor means comprising a multiplicity of spaced-apart sensors disposed in an array to receive the wave energy at a multiplicity of places after interaction with the part and propagation through said medium to the sensor means; means for processing the received wave energy into information for each sensor means; means for analyzing said information from the multiplicity of sensors operable to generate a single sampling signal output representative of a characteristic of said part; and means for sorting connected to receive said sampling signal output and operable to said part in response to said characterisic; wherein the medium in said sensing region through which said wave energy is transmitted is made to flow. 23. Apparatus according to claim 22 that includes means to control the temperature of said medium. 24. Apparatus for achieving at least one of sorting and orienting objects, that comprises: object feeding means to feed an object into a sensing region; means for transmitting continuous wave energy of a narrow-frequency band into the sensing region where the wave energy interacts with the object to provide scattered wave energy; sensor means comprising a multiplicity of spaced sensors disposed at a multiplicity of places in an array to receive the scattered wave energy and adapted to provide electric signals representative of the scattered wave energy; process means connected to receive said electric signals and operable to receive therefrom at least one of amplitude information and phase information with respect to each sensor of the multiplicity of sensors; analyzing means to analyze said at least one of the amplitude information and the phase information to extract therefrom intelligence that identifies a geometry parameter of the part; and means for achieving at least one of sorting and orienting of the part on the basis of the at least one parameter so identified; said continuous wave energy being sinusoidal acoustic wave energy of a single frequency, in which the multiplicity of spaced-apart sensors being acoustic sensors deployed in an array to render the arrayed sensors sensitive to specific regions of the part, each sensor providing an electrical output containing at lease one of amplitude and phase information which is weighted for each sensor on the basis of the characteristic being sensed, said electrical output being sinusoidal signals whose amplitude and phase vary according to the geometric characteristics of the part. 25. A method of sorting parts by size, surface and shape characteristics and orientation for (automatic) continuous assembly of apparatus, that comprises: (a) feeding a part into a predetermined three-dimensional sensing zone; (b) transmitting continuous wave energy at a single frequency into said sensing zone for interaction with the part positioned therein; (c) position a plurality of continuous wave energy sensors adjacent to said zone; (d) separately detecting at each of said sensors the resultant wave energy at said single frequency in said sensing zone after interaction with said part; (e) generating a sampling signal in response to a characteristic of at least one of the amplitude and phase of the detected wave energy for each of said sensors, which sampling signal is combined with sampling signals from the other sdnsors to provide a single combined sampling signal; (f) comparing differences between a pre-established signal and said single combined sampling signal to determine whether the part is within acceptable tolerances in terms of size, shape characteristic and orientation; and (g) sorting said part in accordance with the compared differences; said continuous wave energy being sinusoidal acoustic wave energy of a single frequency, the spaced-apart sensors being acoustic sensors deployed in an array to render the arrayed sensors sensitive to specific regions of the part, each sensor providing electrical output containing at least one of amplitude and phase information which is weighted for each sensor on the basis of the characteristic being sensed, said electrical output being sinusoidal signals whose amplitude and phase vary according to the geometric characteristics of the part. 26. A method of sorting parts for robotic assembly into apparatus as a single component and at a given location, which comprises: position a part for a part for such assembly into a continuous wave field having a known single frequency and known amplitude, said field being generated at a first location to interact with said part; sensing the direct, reflected and refracted wave energy within said field at said known frequency using sensors disposed at a multiplicity of locations spaced apart from each other and from said first location; generating a single combined signal derived from the sensed wave energy from said multiplicity of locations; comparing the generated signal to a standard signal measured by the same steps for an acceptable part; and rejecting or accepting said part for such robotic assembly on the basis of the comparison between the generated signal and the standard signal; said continuous wave energy being sinusoidal wave energy of a single frequency, the spaced sensors being sensors deployed in an array to render the arrayed sensors sensitive to regions of the part, each sensor providing an electrical output containing at least one of amplitude and phase information which is weighted for each sensor on the basis of the characteristic being sensed, said electrical output being sinusoidal signals whose amplitude and phase vary according to said characteristic. 