A combination toy gun and robot assembly is provided. The toy gun has a handle member, cylinder member, gun barrel member, and trigger assembly. Each of these elements can be relatively movable to change from the simulation of a gun into a position of that of a robot in a second position. A robotic head member can be positioned to complete the robotic form toy. The gun barrel member can form one arm or the cylinder member forms another arm of the robot, and the handle member can be bifurcated to form the legs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a toy gun having a gunbarrel with a muzzle, and a gunstock provided with a rear sight, a cylinder and a grip, a toy gun comprising: the gunbarrel foldably provided so as to constitute one of a robotic humanoid arms; the cylinder adapted to constitute a robotic humanoid breast and drawably fitted with a core member; the core member adapted to be movable so as to constitute the other robotic humanoid arm; the grip pivotally attached so as to be splitable and unfoldable into two to constitute a pair of robotic humanoid legs; and the rear sight slidably as well as rotatably provided on the gunstock so as to constitute a robotic humanoid head; wherein the toy gun is able to take a robotic humanoid configuration when unfolded. 2. A combination toy gun and robot assembly that can be reconfigured from one configuration to another configuration at the option of the user comprising: a handle member; a cylinder member; a gun barrel member positioned adjacent the cylinder member; a trigger assembly positioned adjacent the handle member and beneath the cylinder member, the handle member, cylinder member, gun barrel member and trigger assembly simulating the configuration of a gun in a first position, and a robotic head member connected to the and cylinder member, the handle member being configured to simulate the robotic legs of a humanoid robot when moved to a second position, a portion of the gun barrel member being configured to simulate a robotic arm of a humanoid robot, and a portion of the cylinder member being configured to simulate the other robotic arm when moved to a second position with the robotic head positioned adjacent the robotic arms and above the robotic legs wherein a toy robotic humanoid assembly can be provided in the second position by reconfiguration of the toy gun configuration. 3. The invention of claim 2 wherein the handle member is bifurcated into a pair of leg members. 4. The invention of claim 3 wherein each leg member includes a foot member that can be extended or retracted. 5. The invention of claim 4 wherein each leg member includes an upper and lower leg portion that is relatively slidable to enable a compact handle configuration or an extended robot leg configuration. 6. The invention of claim 5 wherein the upper leg portions are pivotally mounted adjacent the trigger assembly to permit rotation of the leg members. 7. The invention of claim 2 wherein the gun barrel member is bifurcated to provide the robotic arm. 8. The invention of claim 2 wherein the robotic head is mounted adjacent the cylinder member. 9. The invention of claim 2 wherein the handle member, gun barrel member, cylinder member, and trigger assembly are configured to simulate a Smith and Wesson 44 caliber pistol in the first position. 