The harness formation interchange for use with a robotic end-effector includes a plurality of tool storage units at each robot work station. Each of the storage units incorporates a powered tool clamping assembly consisting of power driven clamps which move in a path normal to the longitudinal axis of an insertion tool finger to be clamped thereby. Additionally, the storage units are each provided with a powered latch release unit which moves around an insertion tool finger clamped by the power driven clamps to engage and release a tool latch mounted on the robotic end-effector.
Claims I claim: 1. A harness formation fingr interchange for use with a robotic end-effector device adapted to mount an interchangeable tool and including a tool support shaft for reception by an internal chamber within said interchangeable tool by movement of said shaft in a solely axial direction and retaining means to releasably latch said removable tool on said robotic end-effector, comprising storage means to store at least one interchangeable tool, said storage means including a housing, powered tool clamping means mounted on said housing to releasably clamp and position said tool to receive said tool support shaft, and powered latch release means mounted on said housing, said powered latch release means being operative to engage said retaining means to release the removable tool from said end effector when a mounted tool is clamped by said powered tool clamping means. 2. The harness formation finger interchange of claim 1 wherein said powered latch release means includes latch engaging means movable in a path substantially transverse to the longitudinal axis of an interchangeable tool clamped by said powered tool clamping means, said latch engaging means including at least one latch engaging surface formed to move along one side of an interchangeable tool clamped by said power tool clamping means to engage said retaining means. 3. The harness formation finger interchange of claim 2 wherein said powered latch release means is mounted above said powered tool clamping means. 4. The harness formation finger interchange of claim 3 wherein said powered latch release means includes a latch power cylinder, a piston rod extending from said latch power cylinder and reciprocal relative thereto, said latch engaging means being connected to said piston rod, and power circuit means connected to provide driving fluid to said latch power cylinder. 5. The harness formation finger interchange of claim 3 wherein said latch engaging means includes two spaced latch engaging surfaces formed to move along opposite sides of an interchangeable tool clamped by said powered tool clamping means to engage said retaining means at two spaced points. 6. The harness formation finger interchange of claim 3 wherein said powered tool clamping means includes first and second clamp power means mounted on said housing in opposed, spaced, substantially aligned relationship, a first tool clamp secured to said first clamp power means and a second tool clamp secured to said second clamp power means, said first and second clamp power means operating to move said first and second tool clamps toward and away from engagement along substantially aligned paths transverse to the longitudinal axis of an interchangeable tool to be gripped thereby. 7. The harness formation finger interchange of claim 6 wherein said first and second clamp power means move said first and second tool clamps in aligned paths substantially normal to the path of movement of said latch engaging means. 8. A harness formation finger interchange for use with a robotic end-effector device adapted to mount an elongate interchangeable tool and including a tool support shaft for reception by a longitudinally extending chamber formed in said tool and extending from a first end thereof and spring clip means mounted on said end-effector device and extending therefrom in substantially parallel spaced relationship to said tool support shaft for releasable engagement with locking means formed on said interchangeable tool, said harness formation finger interchange including a support means, a plurality of tool storage means mounted on said support means, each such tool storage means including a housing defining a tool storage chamber and having an opening to receive said tool support shaft and a tool mounted thereon, first and second powered tool clamping means mounted respectively on said housing on opposite sides of said opening and spaced therefrom, said first and second powered tool clamping means cooperating to releasably clamp and position an interchangeable tool, and each including a tool clamp and clamp power means to move said tool clamp in said tool storage chamber along a path substantially transverse to the axis of a tool support shaft received in said opening, said tool clamps for said first and second clamping means being moved by said clamp power means along substantially aligned paths within said storage chamber, and powered latch release means mounted on said housing and including latch engaging means mounted for movement along a path substantially transverse to the axis of a tool support shaft received in said opening and normal to the paths of movement of said tool clamps, and release power means to move said latch engaging means, said latch engaging means including at least one latch engaging surface formed to move along one side of an interchangeable tool clamped by said powered tool clamping means to engage said spring clip means. 9. The harness formation finger interchange of claim 8 wherein said powered latch release means is mounted above said powered tool clamping means, said latch engaging means being mounted externally of said tool storage chamber for movement above the tool receiving opening in said housing. 10. The harness formation finger interchange of claim 9 wherein said latch engaging means includes two spaced latch engaging surfaces formed to move along opposite sides of an interchangeable tool clamped by said powered tool clamping means to engage said retaining means at two spaced points. 11. The harness formation finger interchange of claim 10 wherein said powered latch release means includes a latch pneumatic cylinder, a piston rod extending from said latch pneumatic cylinder and reciprocal relative thereto, said latch engaging means being connected to said piston rod, and pneumatic cirucit means connected to provide driving fluid to said latch pneumatic cylinder. 12. The harness formation finger interchange of claim 11 wherein said first and second clamp power means each include a clamp cylinder connected to said pneumatic circuit means and a clamp piston rod extending from said latch pneumatic cylinder and reciprocal relative thereto, said clamp piston rod being connected to a tool clamp. 