Apparatus for manufacturing wiring harnesses employs a robot mounted above a harness board with storage areas for jigs, connectors, wire dispensers, and insertion tooling about the periphery thereof for easy pickup by robotic gripper, which positions jigs and connectors and laces wire from a wire dispensing assembly through the jigs before terminating and severing wire. Dispensing assembly comprises a dispenser which gripper picks up from a bracket in a holder to draw wire from endless source to lace the harness. The holder has wire feed wheels and a severing mechanism therein which may be used with a choice of dispensers in order to use different color or size wire. After termination and severing, pivoted platforms on wire jigs eject wire scraps from around lacing posts fixed on the jigs.
Claims We claim: 1. A harness making apparatus for manufacturing harnesses of the type comprising a plurality of multicontact connectors having terminals therein and wires extending between the connectors and connected to the terminals, the apparatus being of the type comprising a harness board, a plurality of wire and connector jigs which are mountable on the board at locations corresponding to the positions of the connectors in the completed harness, each jig having connector holding means and wire locating means for locating wires adjacent to the terminals in a connector held in the jig, and a connecting tool cooperable in turn with each of the jigs and effective to connect the wires in the wire locating means in each jig to the terminals in the connector in the jig, the apparatus further comprising a programmed robot having gripping means positioned above the board and movable in the XYZ directions with respect to the board, and a wire dispensing assembly which is handled by the robotic gripping means, the robot being programmed to move the wire dispensing assembly along a predetermined path to locate the wire while wire is dispensed from an endless source, said assembly comprising a wire dispenser holder and a wire dispenser received therein, said wire dispenser having a first wire receiving end, a second wire dispensing end, and wire guide means extending between said ends, said dispenser receiving wire at said first end from said endless source and dispensing wire from said second end for placement in said jigs, said dispenser being elongate in form and being received in said holder with said second end toward said board, said guide means comprising tube means through said dispenser, said holder having a placement head with a passage therethrough which receives said wire therethrough from said second end of said dispenser and locates said wire in said jigs, said holder having a pair of wire feed wheels acting on wire in said tube means through apertures in opposed walls of said dispenser, said dispenser being thin in cross section between said feed wheels. 2. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein one of said feed wheels is journaled on a pivotable shaft whereby said one of said wheels is moved toward the adjacent aperture, the other said wheel being spring-loaded toward the adjacent aperture. 3. Apparatus as in claim 2 wherein said one of said wheels is a driven wheel, the other wheel being an idler. 4. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said holder further carries cutting means effective to cut said wire between the second end of said dispenser and said placement head. 5. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said jigs comprise vacuum hold-down means for securing to said board, vacuum being provided to said hold-down means after said gripping means places said jigs on said board. 6. Harness making apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said dispenser further comprises ferrule means situate opposite said first end from said second end, said ferrule means guiding said wire therethrough from said endless source for substantially straight entry in said first end. 7. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said dispenser further comprises anti-backup means which acts on said wire to prevent backup from said second end to said first end. 8. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said anti-backup means comprises a spring-loaded finger which bears against said wire intermediate said ends. 