Discrete robotic sampling apparatus for withdrawing samples of pharmaceutical formulations having particulates therein contained within a plurality of dissolution vessels. The apparatus employs a single sampling probe utilizing a single in-line filter therein. Movement of the probe is guided by a robotic arm controlled by a programmable microprocessor which also controls a reversible pump for flushing the particulates retained by the filter, by means of filtered sample, back into the dissolution vessel, prior to dispensing a portion of the filtered sample into a sample container. The probe is then programmed to be washed with a wash solution prior to inserting of the probe into another dissolution vessel for withdrawing of sample therefrom.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for retrieving samples from a vessel containing a formulation with suspended particulates therein, said apparatus including a robotic arm controlled by programmable microprocessor means for guiding a sampling probe depending from an outer end portion of said robotic arm, the improvement to said apparatus wherein samples are discretely retrieved from a plurality of such vessels by a single sampling probe having a single in-line filter therein, said probe comprising an hypodermic needle at a lower end of said probe for withdrawing sample from said vessel, a single filter member downstream said needle and communicating therewith for filtering said particulates from said withdrawn sample to provide filtered sample, connecting means downstream said filter member for locking said filter member into fixed position in said probe while permitting communication between said filter member and said connecting means, tubing means in communicating relationship with said connecting means, said tubing means connected externally said probe to reversible pump means controlled by said programmable microprocessor, said pump means causing said formulation to be withdrawm through said needle and filter member to provide said filtered sample downstream said filter member to be stored in said tubing means, and said particulates to be retained upstream said filter member, said pump means being programmed to cause said filtered sample to reverse its direction of flow to dislodge said retained particulates back into said vessel, other means for dispensing said filtered sample stored in said tubing means into a sample container, and additional means for cleaning said probe prior to insertion of said probe into another vessel for retrieving samples therefrom. 2. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein said additional means includes means for disposing of said filtered sample not dispensed into said sampling container into a waste container. 3. Apparatus of claim 1 further characterized by a hub connector mounted to said connecting means downstream thereof, an arm connector mounted to said hub connector downstream thereof and to an outer portion of said robotic arm, said hub connector and arm connector each having axial passageways for passage of said tubing means therethrough. 4. Apparatus of claim 3 wherein said arm connector is integrally formed to outer portion of said robotic arm. 5. Apparatus of claim 3 wherein said axial passageways in said hub connector comprise a pair of different diameter threaded bores forming a shoulder therebetween, said connecting means having exteriorly threaded and interiorly threaded upper portions, said interiorly threaded upper portion forming a cavity, a compression nut exteriorly threaded at a lower portion for threaded reception within said cavity of said connecting means, upper portion of said compression nut abutting said shoulder of said hub connector when exteriorly threaded portion of said connecting means is threadedly mounted within lower of said threaded bores of said hub connector, and means for securing said tubing means within said cavity of said connecting means whereby communication is provided between said needle and said pump means. 6. In a method of employing apparatus for automatically retrieving samples from a plurality of dissolution vessels containing pharmaceutical formulations with suspended particulates therein by means of a probe depending from a robotic arm extending from a blank hand controlled by programmable microprocessor means, the improvement to said method wherein a filter backflushing step and a probe clean-out step permit said apparatus to require but a single in-line filter and a single probe with an attached hypodermic needle respectively for retrieving said samples from said plurality of dissolution vessels within a limited time period, said method comprising the steps of placing the hypodermic needle of said probe into dissolution vessel containing said formulation to be sampled, withdrawing a portion of said formulation through said hypodermic needle and filter of said probe to provide filtered sample downstream said filter and particulates upstream thereof, storing said filtered sample in tubing downstream said filter, said tubing communicating with said filter, backflushing said filter to release said particulates back into said dissolution vessel, placing said probe over a sample container for dispensing a desired amount of said filtered sample therein, placing said probe over a waste container for dispensing reamining filtered sample therein, pumping wash solution through said probe to clear any remaining sample therefrom, and returning said cleared probe over another dissolution vessel for retrieval of sample therefrom. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said sampling container is protected by a septa and said step of placing said probe over a sample container includes puncturing said septa with said probe needle. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said puncturing step aids in cleaning exterior of said needle. 