The pneumatically-operated robotic toy includes an internal bellows or air pump which forces pressurized air to flow from the internal air pump or bellows through passageways into hollow arms of the robot. Inasmuch as the arms of the robot include bellows, this flow of air causes the arms to move from an open to a closed position, or vice versa. Air pressure holding joints are provided to permit several degrees of freedom of movement. Alternatively, the internal bellows may be positioned in the head of the robot, and movement of the head will cause the arms to move up and down. A flexible rotatable suction cup base may be provided. A second internal bellows may be provided, either in the torso or in the head, for activation of the suction cup base of the robotic toy.
Claims I claim: 1. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY comprising a housing; arms extending from said housing and including bellows means; air pump means located within said housing; conduit means providing fluid communication between said air pump means and said bellows means of said arms; and means for activating said air pump including handle means installed on an outer portion of said housing, air pump compression means positioned within said housing, and a gripping portion means interacting with said air compression means when said handle means and said gripping portion are forced together, wherein activation of said air pump means causes elongation of said bellows means and movement of said arms from a first to a second position. 2. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY according to claim 1, wherein said means for activating said air pump further comprises resilient means retaining said air pump compression means in a position wherein said air pump is not activated. 3. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY according to claim 1, wherein said means for activating said air pump further comprises limit stop means restricting operation of said air pump compression means. 4. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY according to claim 2, wherein said means for activating said air pump further comprises limit stop means restricting operation of said air pump compression means. 5. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY comprising a housing; arms extending from said housing and including bellows means; air pump means located within said housing; conduit means providing fluid communication between said air pump means and said bellows means of said arms; and means for activating said air pump including handle means installed on an outer portion of said housing, air pump compression means positioned within said housing, and a gripping portion means interacting with said air compression means when said handle means and said gripping portion are forced together, wherein activation of said air pump means causes elongation of said bellows means and movement of said arms from a first to a second position; suction cup means on a lower portion of said housing; a second air pump installed within said housing and activating said suction cup means; and conduit means for providing fluid communication between said second air pump and said suction cup means. 6. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY according to claim 1, further comprising suction cup means on a lower portion of said housing; a second air pump installed within said housing and activating said suction cup means; and conduit means providing fluid communication between said second air pump and said suction cup means. 7. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY according to claim 5, further comprising means for activating said second air pump. 8. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY according to claim 6, further comprising means for activating said second air pump. 9. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY according to claim 1 further comprising air pressure reed noise-makers positioned within said conduit means. 10. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY according to claim 1, further comprising an arm-stiffening means affixed to said arms. 11. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY according to claim 10, wherein said arm-stiffening means comprises a bottom plate affixed to a bottom portion of said arm; a connecting plate extending the length of the outer surface of said arm. 12. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY according to claim 11, wherein the arm-stiffening member further comprises a pivot pin for pivotally attaching the arm stiffening member to said housing. 13. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY according to claim 11, wherein the arm-stiffening member comprises an upper support plate positioned between the arm and said housing, and permitting rotational movement of said arm about its axis. 14. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY comprising a housing; arms extending from said housing and including bellows means; air pump means located within said housing and communicating with said bellows means in said arms, wherein activation of said air pump means causes elongation of said bellows means and movement of said arms from a first to a second position; and arm-stiffening means affixed to said arms and including a bottom plate affixed to a bottom portion of said arm, a connecting plate extending the length of the outer surface of said arm, a pivot pin for pivotally attaching the arm-stiffening member to said housing, and a support clip that attached to a smooth area of said arm in a middle portion of said arm. 15. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY comprising a housing; arms extending from said housing and including bellows means; air pump means located within said housing and communicating with said bellows means in said arms, wherein activation of said air pump causes elongation of said bellows means and movement of said arms from a first to a second position; and an arm-stiffening means affixed to said arms and including a bottom plate affixed to a bottom portion of said arm, a connecting plate extending the length of the outer surface of said arm, an upper support plate positioned between the arm and said housing and permitting rotational movement of said arm about its axis, and a support clip that attaches to a smooth area of said arm in a middle portion of said arm. 16. A PNEUMATICALLY-OPERATED ROBOTIC TOY according to claim 1, wherein said ari pump means is located within a head portion of said housing and movement of said head causes activation of said air pump means and movement of said arms. 