A method and apparatus of monitoring the resistance characteristics of a circuit carrying an alternating current or a current having an alternating component is described. The apparatus includes first integration or averaging means for integrating or averaging the potential drop for the period between instants when the instantaneous current has the same value in a current loop; and display means for displaying a value representative of the output from the integration or averaging means.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of monitoring the resistance characteristics of a circuit carrying a current having at least an alternating component, the method comprising (a) monitoring the potential drop between two predetermined positions in said circuit; (b) monitoring said current flowing through said predetermined positions; (c) comparing said monitored current with a threshold; (d) determining at least two instants at which said monitored current reaches said threshold; and (e) determining one of the integral and the average of said monitored potential drop for the period between said instants, whereby said one of the integral and the average is representative of the resistance characteristic being monitored. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising obtaining one of the integral and the average of the current between said instants; and dividing the respective one of the integral and average potential by the corresponding one of the integral and average of the current and monitoring the result of the division. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the instants occur at successive times in the current loop when the current is substantially zero. 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein the current has an alternating component with a significant current zero period, the method comprising determining said integral between successive instants each falling within the current zero period of a successive pair of said current zero periods. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the instants occur at successive times in the current loop when the current value is substantially the same and non-zero. 6. A method according to claim 5, wherein the interval between the instants lies in the range of 1-3 milliseconds. 7. A method according to claim 5, wherein the interval between the instants is less than 0.3 milliseconds. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein said instants are separated by not more than five electrical degrees. 9. A method of monitoring the resistance characteristics of a circuit carrying a current having at least an alternating component, the method comprising (a) monitoring the potential drop between two predetermined positions in said circuit; (b) monitoring the rate of change of said current flowing through said predetermined positions; (c) comparing said monitored rate of change with a pair of thresholds at which said current has the same value; (d) determining the instants at which said monitored rate of change reaches said thresholds; and (e) determining one of the integral and the average of said monitored potential drop for the period between said instants, whereby said one of the integral and the average is representative of the resistance characteristic being monitored. 10. A method according to claim 9, further comprising obtaining one of the integral and the average of the current between said instants; and dividing the respective one of the integral and average potential by the corresponding one of the integral and average of the current and monitoring the result of the division. 11. A method according to claim 9, wherein the instants occur at successive times in the current loop when the current is substantially zero. 12. A method according to claim 9, wherein the interval between the instants lies in the range 1-3 milliseconds. 13. A method according to claim 9, wherein the interval between the instant is less than 0.3 milliseconds. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein the interval between the instants is substantially 45 microseconds. 15. A method according to claim 9, wherein said instants are separated by not more than five electrical degrees. 16. A method of resistance welding, the method comprising applying a current having at least an alternating component between a pair of electrodes positioned adjacent a workpiece or workpieces to be welded; and monitoring resistance characteristics of the circuit carrying the current by a method comprising: (a) monitoring the potential drop between two predetermined positions in said circuit; (b) monitoring said current flowing through said predetermined positions; (c) comparing said monitored current with a threshold; (d) determining at least two instants at which said monitored current reaches said threshold; and (e) determining one of the integral and the average of said monitored potential drop for the period between said instants, whereby said one of the integral and the average is representative of the resistance characteristic being monitored. 17. A method according to claim 16, wherein said predetermined positions in the circuit are remote from said electrodes. 18. A method according to claim 16, further comprising controlling said current in response to said monitored resistance characteristics. 19. A method according to claim 16, wherein the method of resistance welding is one of continuous seam welding and butt seam welding. 20. A method of resistance welding, the method comprising applying a current having at least an alternating component between a pair of electrodes positioned adjacent a workpiece or workpieces to be welded; and monitoring resistance characteristics of the circuit carrying the current by a method comprising: (a) monitoring the potential drop between two predetermined positions in said circuit; (b) monitoring the rate of change of said current flowing through said predetermined positions; (c) comparing said monitored rate of change with a pair of thresholds at which said current has the same value; (d) determining the instants at which said monitored rate of change reaches said thresholds; and (e) determining one of the intregral and the average of said monitored potential drop for the period between said instants, whereby said one of the integral and the average is representative of the resistance characteristic being monitored. 21. A method according to claim 20, wherein said predetermined positions in the circuit are remote from said electrodes. 22. A method according to claim 20, further comprising controlling said current in response to said monitored resistance characteristics. 23. A method according to claim 20, wherein the method of resistance welding is one of continuous seam welding and butt seam welding. 24. Apparatus for monitoring the resistance characteristics of a circuit carrying a current having at least an alternating component, the apparatus comprising means for monitoring said current flowing between two predetermined positions in said circuit; comparison means for comparing said monitored current with a threshold and for determining at least two instants at which said monitored current reaches said threshold; and one of first integration means and first averaging means for integrating or averaging respectively the potential drop between said two predetermined positions in said circuit for the period between said instants to generate an output signal representative of the resistance characteristics being monitored. 25. Apparatus according to claim 24, further comprising one of second integration means and second averaging means for integrating or averaging respectively the current between said instants to provide an output signal related to said one of said integrated and averaged current; and means for dividing the output signal from said one of said first integration means and said first averaging means by the output signal from said one of said second integration means and said second averaging means and for providing an output signal. 26. Resistance welding apparatus including apparatus according to claim 24; a pair of electrodes in said circuit to which said current is applied; and means for detecting said output signal and for modulating said current in response to said detected output signal. 27. Resistance welding apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said predetermined positions are remote from said electrodes. 28. Apparatus for monitoring the resistance characteristics of a circuit carrying a current having at least an alternating component, the apparatus comprising means for monitoring the rate of change of said current flowing through two predetermined positions; comparison means for comparing said monitored rate of change with a pair of thresholds at which said current has the same value and for determining instants at which said rate of change reaches said thresholds; and one of first integration means and first averaging means for integrating or averaging respectively the potential drop between said two predetermined positions in said circuit for the period between said instants to generate an output signal representative of the resistance charateristic being monitored. 29. Apparatus according to claim 28, further comprising one of second integration means and second averaging means for integrating or averaging respectively the current between said instants to provide an output signal related to said one of said integrated and averaged current; and means for dividing the output signal from said one of said first integration means and said first averaging means by the output signal from said one of said second integration means and said second averaging means and for providing an output signal. 30. Resistance welding apparatus including apparatus according to claim 28; a pair of electrodes in said circuit to which said current is applied; and means for detecting said output signal and for modulating said current in response to said detected output signal. 