A telescoping parts manipulator comprising a telescoping tubular arm which is extended and retracted by a cable from a cable drum, and a workpiece engaging assembly which pivots on a wrist swivel axis carried at the end of the telescoping arm which engages molded articles in a molding machine. The telescoping arm is mounted to a slide box which moves forward and backward to allow engagement with a molded article, clearance of the tie bars in the mold, and movement towards a work station such as a conveyor belt. The cable is a hollow nylon tube which provides vacuum from a vacuum source through the telescoping arm to suction cups at the end of the arm which engage the molded articles.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for engaging and removing a molded article from a molding machine, comprising the steps of: detecting the opening of the molding machine and providing a mold opening signal in response to the opening of the mold; extending a telescoping extensible and retractable arm into the space between the mold halves in response to the mold opening signal; engaging the molded article in the molding machine with workpiece engaging means carried by the arm; retracting the arm and the molded article carried by the workpiece engaging means out of the space between the mold halves; and releasing the molded article at a work station remote from the mold. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising pivoting a wrist swivel joint carried by the arm from a first position to a second, lowered position to release the article at the work station. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the telescoping extensible and retractable arm comprises a plurality of telescoping tubular members, and the step of extending the arm comprises unwinding a cable from a cable drum and pushing the innermost one of the telescoping tubular members with the end of the cable. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the step of engaging the molded article in the molding machine comprises moving a suction cup into contact with a surface of the molded article, and further comprising the step of imparting suction to the suction cup from a source of vacuum through said cable to cause the suction cup to adhere to the molded article. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of engaging the molded article in the molding machine comprises moving a base portion to which the arm is mounted forward to place the workpiece engaging means in contact with the molded article. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of moving the base portion backwards after the workpiece engaging means has engaged the molded article to remove the molded article from the mold. 7. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of moving the base portion forward towards the work station after the arm has retracted carrying the molded article. 8. A workpiece engaging apparatus for engaging with molded articles in a molding machine and for depositing the articles at place removed from the molding machine, comprising: a base portion positioned adjacent the molding machine, an extensible arm mounted at one end to said base portion and having an upper end extensible along a longitudinal axis into the space between the mold halves of the molding machine when the molding machine is opened, workpiece engaging means attached to said upper end of said arm for engaging with the molded article, sequencing means responsive to the cycles of the molding machine for providing an extraction signal at a predetermined time during a cycle, extending and retracting means responsive to said extraction signal for extending said arm and said workpiece engaging means into the space between the mold halves and for retracting said arm and said workpiece engaging means and the engaged article out of the mold prior to the closing of the mold for a new cycle. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising control means responsive to said extraction signal for providing an extend-arm signal at a first predetermined time during a molding machine cycle and a retract-arm signal at a second predetermined time during said molding machine cycle, and wherein said extending and retracting means is responsive to said extend-arm signal for extending said arm to engage the article, and is thereafter responsive to said retact-arm signal for retracting said arm and the article to remove the article from the molding machine. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising carriage means for supporting said base portion, said base portion being capable of assuming a first position adjacent the molding machine and a second position spaced apart from said first position, and second driving means for moving said base portion from said first position to said second position. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said carriage means comprises at least one track bar, wherein said base portion is mounted to said track bar with supporting sleeves, and wherein said second driving means comprises a pneumatic cylinder mounted for driving said base portion between said first position and said second position. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said arm comprises a pluralilty of telescoping tubular members, and further comprising cable means having a compressive strength sufficient to support said arm, said workpiece engaging means, and the article when said arm is fully extended, said cable means being housed within said tubular members and having one end attached to the innermost one of said tubular members, and wherein said extending and retracting means comprises: cable drum means for spooling the other end of said cable means, and cable drum driving means for rotating said drum means in one direction for winding said cable means to retract said arm and for rotating said drum means in the other direction for unwinding said cable means to extend said arm. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said workpiece engaging means comprises at least one suction cup for engaging with a surface of the workpiece, and wherein said cable means comprises a hollow elongate semirigid tube and further comprising a source of vacuum selectively operable to impart suction to said suction cup for engaging and removing the workpiece and for releasing suction for discharging the workpiece, and wherein said source of vacuum is in fluid communication with said suction cup through said tube. 14. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a wrist swivel joint attached to the upper end of said arm and pivotable about a wrist bend axis perpendicular to said longitudinal axis of said arm, and wherein said workpiece engaging means is mounted to said wrist swivel joint and movable therewith for engaging the article in a first plane and for discharging the article in a second plane. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising first driving means for pivoting said workpiece engaging means and said wrist swivel joint between said first plane and said second plane. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said sequencing means is further responsive to provide a release signal at a second predetermined time during a molding machine cycle, and wherein said first driving means is responsive to said release signal to pivot said wrist swivel joint, said workpiece engaging means, and the article engaged thereby to said second position to deposit the article. 17. A workpiece manipultor, comprising: a base portion, an extensible arm mounted at one end to said base portion and comprising a plurality of tubular telescoping members extensible and retractable along a longitudinal axis, cable means housed within said telescoping members having one end attached to the innermost one of said tubular members, cable drum means for spooling the other end of said cable means, drum driving means for rotating said drum means in one direction for winding said cable means and in the other direction for unwinding said cable means, said arm extending as said cable means unwinds and retracting as said cable means winds, and workpiece engaging means mounted to the upper end of said arm for engaging with a workpiece, wherein said cable means pushes said innermost one of said tubular members to extend said arm and pulls said innermost one of said tubular members to retract said arm. 18. The manipulator of claim 17, further comprising sequencing means responsive to the cycles of a molding machine for providing an extraction signal at a predetermined time during a molding machine cycle, and control means responsive to said extraction signal for providing an extend-arm signal at a first predetermined time during a molding machine cycle and a retract-arm signal at a second predetermined time during said molding machine cycle, and wherein said drum driving means is responsive to said extend-arm signal for extending said arm to engage the workpiece, and is thereafter responsive to said retract-arm signal for retracting said arm and the workpiece to remove the workpiece from the molding machine. 19. The manipulator of claim 17, wherein said workpiece engaging means comprises a plurality of workpiece grasping members mounted to the arms of a cross-shaped mounting member, and further comprising scissoring means for pivoting the arms of said cross-shaped mounting member with respect to each other, whereby the workpieces engaged by the workpiece grasping members can avoid obstacles in the path of movement of the workpiece engaging means. 20. The manipulator of claim 17, further comprising a wrist swivel joint attached to the upper end of said arm and pivotable about a wrist bend axis perpendicular to said longitudinal axis of said arm, and first driving means for pivoting said workpiece engaging means and said wrist swivel joint, and wherein said workpiece engaging means is mounted to said wrist swivel joint and movable therewith for engaging the workpiece in a first plane and for discharging the workpiece in a second plane. 21. The manipulator of claim 20, wherein said first driving means comprises a pneumatic cylinder, and rack and pinion means operatively connected to said pneumatic cylinder for pivoting said wrist swivel joint and said workpiece engaging means. 22. The manipulator of claim 17, further comprising carriage means for supporting said base portion, said base portion being capable of assuming a first position and a second position spaced apart from said first position, and second driving means for moving said base portion from said first position to said second position. 23. The manipulator of claim 22, wherein said carriage means comprises at least one track bar, wherein said base portion is mounted to said track bar with supporting sleeves, and wherein said second driving means comprises a pneumatic cylinder mounted for driving said base portion between said first position and said second position. 24. The manipulator of claim 17, wherein said cable means comprises a hollow elongate semirigid tube having sufficient compressive strength to support said arm, said workpiece engaging means, and the workpiece engaged thereby, when said arm is fully extended. 25. The manipulator of claim 24, further comprising first fluid connector means attached to said workpiece engaging means and in fluid communication with said one end of said tube, second fluid connector means attached to said cable drum means and in fluid communication with said other end of said tube, and fluid driving means operatively connected to said cable drum means for providing a fluid flow through said second connector means, said tube, and said first connector means to said workpiece engaging means. 26. The manipulator of claim 25, wherein said fluid driving means comprises a source of vacuum, wherein said workpiece engaging means comprises at least one suction cup for engaging with a surface of the workpiece, and wherein said vacuum source is selectively operable to impart suction to said suction cup for engaging and removing the workpiece and for releasing suction for discharging the workpiece. 