A robot pick-up head for an electrical connector with a hollow rivet at each end, comprises a body for attachment to the Z axis shaft of a robot. In the body are a pair of spring loaded pins, one on each side of the Z axis, and between the pins, is a spring loaded vacuum block. The pins terminate in tapered spigots for insertion into the hollow rivets. When the connector is to be picked up, the spigots are inserted into the rivets with the full force of the robot so that if the rivets are initially canted with respect to the connector, the rivets are straightened. The vacuum block then engages the housing of the connector and is evacuated so that the connector is picked up as the robot shaft rises. The loading springs of the vacuum block are softer than those of the pins so that the connector housing is not damaged when it is engaged by the vacuum block.
Claims We claim: 1. A pick-up head for use in picking up a workpiece having a pair of hollow rivets depending in spaced relationship from a lower surface thereof and opening into an upper surface thereof, and moving the workpiece towards a board to place said lower surface thereof, thereby to insert said rivets into predetermined holes in the board, the pick-up head comprising: a body having a central vertical axis and upper and lower faces; means on said upper face for attaching said body to a longitudinally movable shaft with said central axis coincident with the axis of the shaft; first and second pins slidably mounted in said body and extending parallel to said central axis at positions spaced therefrom, said pins being disposed on opposite sides of said axis and having free end portions projecting below said lower face and terminating in tapered spigots for reception in said hollow rivets; and a vacuum block slidably mounted for vertical movement in said body between said pins; an evacuable manifold in said body having means for connection to an evacuating pump and opening between said free end portions, for engagement with the upper surface of said workpiece; and first and second springs connected to said pins and said vacuum block, respectively, and against the action of which said pins and said vacuum block are movable upwardly in said body. 2. A pick-up head according to claim 1, wherein said second springs are softer than said first springs. 3. A pick-up head according to claim 1, wherein said body comprises a front plate and a back plate which are secured together and which cooperate to define a slide way for said vacuum block, said vacuum block having splines projecting therefrom, and being slidably engaged in vertical grooves in said plates. 4. A pick-up head according to claim 3, wherein said pins are received in countersunk bores in one of said plates, said second springs being received in bores in said vacuum block, the body having a top plate attached to said shaft, said first springs acting between said first pins and said top plate and said second springs acting between said vacuum block and said top plate. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said manifold comprises a horizontal blind bore in said vacuum block, connected to an air pipe for connection to said vacuum pump, a series of vertical bores communicating with said blind bore and with a lower face of said vacuum block which is parallel to said lower face of said body. 6. A pick-up head according to claim 1, wherein each pin has a flat end face from which said spigot projects, the spigot having a portion of constant circular cross section adjacent to said flat face and said spigot terminating in a tapered and pointed free end portion. 