A robot including a vision system for providing information to the robot to permit the robot to accurately place electrical components such as integrated circuits on a circuit board is disclosed. The vision system includes a first camera for generating signals indicating to the robot the precise location on the circuit board at which the components are to be placed. A second vision system provides to the robot information permitting the location and angular rotation of the component as held by the robot to be determined. The circuit board and component are then positioned in precise alignment by the robot and the robot places the circuit in the desired predetermined location.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for positioning an electrical component at a predetermined location on a circuit board, comprising: (a) light producing means for projecting light in an array which is peripherally beyond the periphery of said component to avoid illuminating a bottom side of said component and to illuminate reflecting means spaced above the top side of said electrical component; (b) visual means positioned to view the bottom side of said component and to produce a high contrast image of the peripheral shadow of said component; (c) said visual means including means utilizing said high contrast shadow image for generating the angular rotational and position data of said electrical component; (d) first positioning means utilizing said angular rotational data for rotating said electrical component to a predetermined angular position relative to said circuit board; (e) second positioning means utilizing said position data for repositioning said electrical component relative to said circuit board in at least first and second directions; and (f) third positioning means for positioning said electrical component in at least a third direction to position said electrical component at said predetermined location on said circuit board. 2. A system for positioning an electrical component at a predetermined location on a circuit board, comprising in combination: (a) a light source located on one side of one face of said component for projecting a light array having a predetermined profile past the outside periphery of said component to avoid illuminating said one face; (b) a reflecting surface disposed in spaced relation from the other face of said component and within said light array for reflecting light toward said other face to produce a high contrast peripheral shadow beyond said one face; (c) light sensitive image means positioned in spaced relation from said one face of said component and responsive to the position of said shadow for generating angular and positional data; and (d) positioning means responsive to said data and to further data specifying the desired location for said electrical component on said circuit board to position said electrical component on said circuit board to said predetermined location. 3. A system in accordance with claim 2 wherein said light source for projecting said predetermined profile is a circular source. 4. A system in accordance with claim 3 wherein said light source has a high intensity circular edge portion and a lower intensity central portion and includes (1) a cylinder having a selected diameter and first and second ends, and (2) said circular light source is positioned around said cylinder at a selected distance from said first end such that said end forms a shadow producing said lower intensity central portion, and said light source comprises a circular fluorescent lamp. 5. A system in accordance with claim 4 wherein said light sensitive image means comprises (1) a TV camera positioned to view said electrical component through an end opening of a cylinder positioned around said TV camera. 6. A system in accordance with claim 5 further including means for comparing the dimensions of the leads of said electrical component to the dimensions of the mounting pads for said leads prior to positioning said component on said circuit board. 7. A robotic system for positioning integrated circuits of a circuit board at a desired location comprising: (a) means for determining the location at which an integrated circuit is to be positioned relative to the robot from data specifying the location at which integrated circuits are to be positioned relative to position markers on said circuit board and a tv image of said position markers on said circuit board; (b) lighting means for back lighting said integrated circuit using a light source mounted in front of said integrated circuit; (c) image means for producing a high contrast image of said integrated circuit; (d) means for utilizing data specifying the location at which said integrated circuit is to be positioned on said circuit board and said high contrast image of said integrated circuit to control said robotic system to position said integrated circuit on said circuit board at said desired location. 