In a gripper device including a power frame of a motor 10, shaft 12, sun gear 14, planetary gear 16, gripper assembly shaft 18, gripper lever 20, gripper finger 22, a clutch 24 is interposed in the power train to each gripper finger and is controlled to provide a low force coupling transmittal when the fingers are moved in a position to contact the object 26 to be gripped, and after all fingers have contacted the object, the clutch provides for the transmittal of a relatively higher force adequate to permit handling the object without slipping.
Claims We claim: 1. A gripper device for gripping an object, comprising: motor means having a driving shaft rotatable in one and an opposite direction, said driving shaft carrying an output drive member; a plurality of gripper assemblies adapted to be driven by said output drive member, each gripper assembly including a rotatable driven shaft having a lever fixed to and projecting transversely from said driven shaft and having gripper finger means projecting transversely at the distal portion of said lever; coupling means between each said gripper assembly driven shaft and said output drive member; and means for changing the torque transmitted from said output drive member through said coupling means to said gripper assembly driven shafts from a relatively low value at least until all of said gripper finger means have contacted said object, and thereafter to a relatively higher value at least adequate to permit handling the object without slipping. 2. A gripper according to claim 1 wherein: said output drive member comprises sun gear means driven by said driving shaft; said coupling means includes planetary gear means, driven by said sun gear means, associated with each driven gripper shaft, said planetary gear means each being in partly slipping relation to its driven shaft, and a clutch means associated with each said driven shaft and its planetary gear means; and said torque changing means includes plate means movable from one position in which said low torque value is transmitted through said coupling means to another position in which said relatively higher torque value is transmitted. 3. A gripper according to claim 2 including: means on said driving shaft providing an external helical screw; said plate means includes a complementary helical screw opening therein so that said plate means moves on said driving shaft in accordance with direction of motor rotation for movement into and out of engagement with said planetary gear means to effect said torque value changes. 4. A gripper device for gripping an object, comprising: power train means for transmitting power from motor means to a plurality of gripper assemblies; said motor means driving a driving shaft rotatable in one and an opposite direction, said driving shaft carrying an output drive member; each gripper assembly including a rotatable driven shaft having a lever fixed to and projecting transversely from said driven shaft and having gripper finger means projecting transversely at the distal portion of said lever; clutch means in said power train means for controlling the coupling between said output drive member and said gripper assembly shafts; and means controlling said clutch means for changing the torque transmitted from said output drive member through said clutch means to said gripper assembly shafts from a relatively low value at least until all of said gripper finger means have contacted said object, and thereafter to a relatively higher value at least adequate to permit handling the object without slipping. 5. A gripper according to claim 4 wherein: said output drive member comprises sun gear means driven by said driving shaft; planetary gear means associated with each of said gripper assembly shafts; said clutch means includes plate means movable from one position in which the force transmitted from said sun gear means through said planetary gear means to said gripper assembly shafts is at a relatively low value at least until all of said gripper finger means have contacted said object, to another position in which the force transmitted is at a relatively higher value at least adequate to permit handling the object without slipping. 6. A claim according to claim 5 including: means biasing said plate means in a direction to provide the transmission of said relatively higher value of force; and means is provided to urge said plate means in a direction opposing said biasing means to obtain a force transmittal value of the relatively lower value. 7. A claim according to claim 6 wherein: said biasing means includes spring means. 8. A claim according to claim 5 including: electrically energized means for controlling the position of said plate means. 