A packaging machine for producing closed packages includes a chamber that can be sealed in an airtight manner around one or a plurality of packages, a gas flushing unit for flushing with a gas the at least one package contained in the chamber, at least one gas line leading into the chamber or out of the chamber as well as a measuring device for determining a concentration of the gas. The measuring device comprises a measuring head for reading, through the use of electromagnetic radiation, an indicator for the concentration of the gas. The indicator is arranged in an interior of the chamber, in an interior of a package and/or in an interior the at least one gas line.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A packaging machine for producing closed packages, the packaging machine comprising: a sealing station including a chamber that is sealable in an airtight manner around one or more packages; a gas flushing unit for flushing with a gas the one or more packages contained in the chamber; at least one gas line leading into the chamber or out of the chamber; a measuring device for determining a concentration of the gas, the measuring device comprising a measuring head arranged at the sealing station for reading, by means of electromagnetic radiation, an indicator to determine the concentration of the gas, the indicator being arranged in the interior of the chamber, in an interior of a package and/or in an interior of the at least one gas line; and a control unit in communication with the measuring device, the control unit being configured to control the gas flushing of the one or more packages based on data obtained by the measuring device. 2. A packaging machine according to claim 1 wherein the measuring head is configured for optically reading the indicator. 3. A packaging machine according to claim 1 wherein the measuring head is arranged in a wall of the chamber or of the at least one gas line. 4. A packaging machine according to claim 1 wherein the measuring head is arranged outside the chamber or the at least one gas line. 5. A packaging machine according to claim 1 wherein the measuring device is configured to optically activate the indicator. 6. A packaging machine according to one to claim 1 wherein the measuring head is configured to measure the reflectivity, the transmissivity and/or the fluorescence of the indicator in a specific spectral region or at a specific wavelength. 7. A packaging machine according to claim 6 further comprising a unit for varying the spectral region or the wavelength. 8. A packaging machine according to claim 1 further comprising a device disposed proximate the indicator for cleaning the indicator. 9. A packaging machine according to claim 8 wherein the control unit is in communication with the cleaning device for automatically operating the cleaning device. 10. A packaging machine according to claim 1 wherein the measuring device is configured to determine respective concentrations of two or more different gases or gas mixtures. 11. A packaging machine according to claim 1 wherein the indicator comprises two or more areas, each of said areas being suitable for indicating concentration of a specific gas or gas mixture. 12. A packaging machine according to claim 1 wherein the measuring device is configured for spectroscopically reading the indicator. 13. A packaging machine according to claim 1 further comprising a device for providing the indicator in the interior of the package. 14. A packaging machine according to claim 13 wherein the providing device is configured to attach the indicator to a side of a cover sheet facing a container part of the package. 15. A packaging machine according to claim 13 wherein the providing device is configured to form the indicator on a side of a cover sheet of the package that faces a container part of the package. 16. A packaging machine according to claim 15 wherein the providing device comprises a printing device. 17. The packaging machine of claim 1 wherein the measuring head emits electromagnetic radiation for interacting with the indicator. 18. The packaging machine of claim 1 wherein the chamber comprises a window that is transparent to the electromagnetic radiation, and the window is arranged between the measuring head and the interior of the chamber. 19. The packaging machine of claim 1 wherein the measuring head is arranged at the chamber. 20. A packaging machine for producing closed packages, the packaging machine comprising: a chamber that is sealable in an airtight manner around one or more packages; a gas flushing unit for flushing with a gas the one or more packages contained in the chamber; at least one gas line leading into the chamber or out of the chamber; an indicator arranged in an interior of the chamber and/or in an interior of the at least one gas line; a measuring device comprising a measuring head for reading, by means of electromagnetic radiation, the indicator to determine the concentration of the gas; and a device disposed proximate the indicator for cleaning the indicator. 21. The packaging machine of claim 20 further comprising an additional measuring device for reading, by means of electromagnetic radiation, an additional indicator disposed in one of the one or more packages. 22. A packaging machine for producing closed packages, the packaging machine comprising: a chamber that is sealable around one or more packages; a gas flushing unit for flushing with a gas the one or more packages received in the chamber; a gas line in communication with the chamber; and a measuring device comprising a measuring head that is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation and to read, through the use of the electromagnetic radiation, an indicator to determine the concentration of the gas, the indicator being arranged in an interior of the chamber, in an interior of one of the one or more packages, or in an interior of the gas line; wherein the chamber comprises a sealing tool having a window, and the window is disposed between the measuring head and the interior of the chamber such that the electromagnetic radiation may pass through the window. 23. A packaging machine for producing closed packages, the packaging machine comprising: a chamber that is sealable around one or more packages; a gas flushing unit for flushing with a gas the one or more packages received in the chamber; a gas line in communication with the chamber; an indicator arranged in an interior of the gas line; and a measuring device comprising a measuring head that is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation and to read, through the use of the electromagnetic radiation, the indicator to determine the concentration of the gas; wherein the chamber comprises a sealing tool having a wall and a window, the measuring head is disposed in the wall of the sealing tool, and the window is disposed between the measuring head and the interior of the gas line such that the electromagnetic radiation may pass through the window. 