Methods and systems for robotic determination of a response to conflicting commands are provided. The robot may evaluate scenarios using variables related to the contextual/situational data for event outcomes from which the robot can determine which of two or more actions to take, as by prioritizing the actions in order of importance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, performed by a robotic device, the method comprising: receiving, at the robotic device, a plurality of commands, wherein each respective command of the plurality of commands is associated with a respective time of execution; determining, for each of the plurality of commands, at least one constraint of a plurality of constraints for the robotic device; for each respective command, determining the respective time of execution based on a satisfaction of the at least one constraint of the plurality of constraints associated with the respective command; providing, to at least one computing device, the plurality of commands; receiving, from the at least one computing device, results of performed simulations of the plurality of commands; determining a prioritization of execution of the plurality of commands based on the respective times of execution, the results of the performed simulations, and an environment where the respective commands are to be executed; and executing, by the robotic device, at least one command of the plurality of commands based on the prioritization of execution. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the plurality of constraints comprises determining an environment for performing the respective command. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a conflict between a first constraint and a second constraint of the plurality of constraints, the first constraint associated with a first command of the plurality of commands and the second constraint associated with a second command of the plurality of commands; determining a first time of execution for the first command and a second time of execution for the second command; determining whether delaying execution of the first command resolves the conflict; and in response to determining that delaying execution of the first command resolves the conflict, changing the first time of execution. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein changing the first time of execution comprises setting the first time of execution to a suspended state. 5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: obtaining sensory input data via at least one sensory device of the robotic device; and in response to the sensory input data, determining the at least one constraint of the plurality of constraints for the robotic device for the respective command. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: assessing a first benefit associated with performing a first command of the plurality of commands, and assessing a second benefit associated with performing a second command of the plurality of commands, making a determination of whether the second benefit exceeds the first benefit; and based on the determination, setting the time of execution for the first command to a suspended state. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a conflict between executing a first command of the plurality of commands and a second command of the plurality of commands; and determining whether to suspend execution of the first command or the second command based on environmental sensory input data obtained from a sensory device of the robotic device. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining whether delaying execution of the first command resolves the conflict; and in response to determining that delaying execution of the first command resolves the conflict, changing a time of execution of the first command. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining an order at which to execute the plurality of commands based on respective time of execution and constraints associated with each command of the plurality of commands. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising determining the order at which to execute the plurality of commands based on an environment of the robotic device. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising determining the order at which to execute the plurality of commands based on outcomes associated with suspending execution of the respective commands. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the order at which to execute the plurality of commands based on the outcomes associated with suspending execution of the respective commands comprises receiving results of simulations of the respective commands. 13. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored therein executable instructions that, when executed by a robotic device that includes at least one sensory device, causes the robotic device to perform functions comprising: receiving, at the robotic device, a plurality of commands, wherein each respective command of the plurality of commands is associated with a respective time of execution; determining, for each of the plurality of commands, at least one constraint of a plurality of constraints for the robotic device; for each respective command, determining the respective time of execution based on a satisfaction of the at least one constraint of the plurality of constraints associated with the respective command; providing, to at least one computing device, the plurality of commands; receiving, from the at least one computing device, results of performed simulations of the plurality of commands; determining an order at which to execute the plurality of commands based at least in part on the respective times of execution and the results of the performed simulations; and executing, by the robotic device, at least one command of the plurality of commands based on the determined order at which to execute the plurality of commands. 14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the functions further comprise: determining a conflict between a first constraint and a second constraint of the plurality of constraints, the first constraint associated with a first command of the plurality of commands and the second constraint associated with a second command of the plurality of commands; obtaining sensory input data via the at least one sensory device of the robotic device; and in response to the sensory input data, selecting one of the first command or the second perform to perform. 15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the functions further comprise: determining an order at which to execute the plurality of commands based on the respective times of execution, constraints associated with each command of the plurality of commands, and outcomes associated with execution of the respective commands. 16. A robotic device comprising: one or more processors; at least one sensor coupled to the one or more processors and configured to capture data about an environment in a vicinity of the at least one sensor; and memory including executable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the robotic device to perform functions comprising: receiving, at the robotic device, a plurality of commands, wherein each respective command of the plurality of commands is associated with a respective time of execution; determining, for each of the plurality of commands, at least one constraint of a plurality of constraints for the robotic device; for each respective command, determining the respective time of execution based on a satisfaction of the at least one constraint of the plurality of constraints associated with the respective command; providing, to at least one computing device, the plurality of commands; receiving, from the at least one computing device, results of performed simulations of the plurality of commands; determining an order at which to execute the plurality of commands based at least in part on the respective times of execution and the results of the performed simulations; and executing, by the robotic device, at least one command of the plurality of commands based on the determined order at which to execute the plurality of commands. 17. The robotic device of claim 16, wherein determining, for each of the plurality of commands, the at least one constraint of the plurality of constraints for the robotic device comprises: determining capabilities of the robotic device; and based on the capabilities, determining whether the robotic device can perform the respective command. 18. The robotic device of claim 16, wherein the instructions are further executable by the one or more processors to perform functions comprising: determining a conflict between a first constraint and a second constraint of the plurality of constraints, the first constraint associated with a first command of the plurality of commands and the second constraint associated with a second command of the plurality of commands; obtaining sensory input data via the at least one sensory device of the robotic device; and in response to the sensory input data, selecting one of the first command or the second command to perform. 19. The robotic device of claim 16, wherein the instructions are further executable by the one or more processors to perform functions comprising: determining an order at which to execute the plurality of commands based on the respective times of execution, constraints associated with each respective command of the plurality of commands, and outcomes associated with execution of the respective commands. 