A method for measuring an upper limb reaching capability of a user with an impaired limb is provided. Each upper limb is placed at a default position on a horizontal surface. A target is displayed from among a plurality of targets on the horizontal surface. One of the limbs reaches for the target. Limb choice, position information and elapsed time are sensed and recorded. The reaching limb is retracted to the default position. The displaying step through the retracting step are repeated for each of the plurality of targets, wherein each of the plurality of targets is spaced apart.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for measuring an upper limb reaching capability of a user with an impaired limb, comprising: a horizontal surface including a default position; sensors for detecting limb choice, position information and elapsed time; a target display device displaying sequentially a plurality of spaced apart targets on the horizontal surface; and a controller operably connected to the target display device and the sensors, wherein the controller is configured to adaptively present the user with a series of targets to reach for based on the user's past performance, and to determine a measurement for the user's upper limb reaching capability based on a set of parameters comprising voluntary paretic limb use, non-use and limb function, and wherein the controller measures non-use of the limb by comparing the probability of reach in a forced use sequence to the probability of using the limb in a free choice sequence. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the targets are displayed by rising from below the horizontal surface, light-emitting diodes or a touch screen. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein each of the targets is formed of a plurality of nested targets. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the target display device includes a plurality of light-emitting diodes and corresponding switches provided on the surface. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the sensors detect reaction time and movement time. 6. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a display device and an audio device providing instructions and feedback. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to determine a set of challenging reaching targets based on the amount of use and the amount of non-use. 