An improved interface between the surgeon and an endoscope system for laparoscopic surgery, holding a laparoscopic came and/or controlling an automated endoscope assistant includes at least one wireless transmitter with at least one operating key (12a). at least one wireless receiver (11), at least one conventional laparoscopy computerized system (15) loaded with conventional surgical instrument spatial location software, and conventional automated assistant maneuvering software, software loaded onto to the conventional laparoscopy system that enables a visual response to the depression of at least one key on the wireless transmitter as well as an interface with the conventional automated assistant maneuvering software so as to achieve movement of the endoscope, and at least one video screen (30).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for controlling the spatial position of an endoscope, comprising the steps of: providing a pivoting support; coupling said pivoting support to an endoscope; thereby enabling said endoscope to pivot around said pivoting support at an insertion point into a body of a subject independent of the distance between said pivoting support and said insertion point; providing a mechanism for moving said pivoting support independently in two arc-shaped paths; providing an arc shaped housing in which said mechanism moves said pivoting support along an arc shaped guide disposed within said arc shaped housing, said arc shaped housing comprising a base, said base comprising a housing containing a lead screw (15) constrained to remain in one position, rotation of said lead screw moving a nut (10) through which the screw is threaded moving the nut; said moving nut physically connected to a gimbal (50) with links (20) adapted to transfer linear movement of the nut to said gimbal resulting in movement of said gimbal back and forth along said arc shaped guide, whereby a sliding degree of freedom is obtained; and, mechanically connecting said mechanism to said pivoting support, thereby enabling said endoscope to rotate around said insertion point. 2. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising the step of providing said mechanism for moving said pivoting support in said two arc-shaped paths within a curved guide for guiding said pivoting support in a first arc-shaped path and a force source (503) for moving said pivoting support in a second arc-shaped path. 3. The method of claim 2, additionally comprising the step of providing said second arc-shaped path orthogonally to said first arc-shaped path. 4. The method of claim 2, additionally comprising the step of providing said pivoting support with at least one gimbal. 5. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising the step of providing: a housing (309) attachable to said endoscope via said pivoting support, said housing comprising: at least one zoom mechanism; and at least one endoscope rotation mechanism; and, at least one sliding degree of freedom (305). 6. The method of claim 5, additionally comprising steps of providing: a motor house; means adapted to transmit movement to said zoom mechanism; means adapted to transmit movement to said endoscope rotation mechanism; means adapted to transmit movements to said sliding degree of freedom. 7. The method of claim 5, additionally comprising the step of providing (a) at least one adjustable arm; and (b) a basis comprising at least one motor; wherein said adjustable arm couples said pivoting support, said mechanism and said basis. 8. The method according to claim 1, additionally comprising the step of zooming in and/or zooming out of a desired area such that more precisions is obtained. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein said step of zooming in and/or zooming out additionally comprises the step of moving said endoscope along said endoscope's longitudinal axis. 10. The method according to claim 1, additionally comprising the step of rotating said endoscope. 11. The method according to claim 1, additionally comprising the step of disassembling said endoscope to said housing. 12. The method according to claim 5, additionally comprising the step of selecting said at least one zoom mechanism from the group consisting of an adjustment cable mechanism, a parallelogram rods mechanism, a spring mechanism, a reduction force mechanism, a rotating cable mechanism and a two springs zoom mechanism. 13. The method according to claim 5, additionally comprising the step of disassembling the endoscope out of said at least one zoom mechanism without changing any degree of freedom of the spatial position of said endoscope, by activating said endoscope independently of other moving parts of the mechanism, such that the entire system does not have to be re-positioned. 