An apparatus including at least one of a stainer module and a coverslipper module; an imaging module; a storage module; an automated transport module for transporting at least one slide between at least one of the stainer module and the coverslipper module, the imaging module and the storage module; and a controller. A method including processing at least one slide; determining whether an imaging module is available for imaging of a biological specimen on the at least one slide; transporting the at least one slide to the imaging module using an automated transport module; and transporting the at least one slide to a storage module using the automated transport module when it is determined that the imaging module is not available. A system including a processing module for processing at least one slide including a biological specimen thereon. A machine readable medium.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus comprising: at least one of a stainer module and a coverslipper module; an imaging module; a storage module; an automated transport module for transporting at least one slide between the at least one of the stainer module and the coverslipper module, the imaging module and the storage module, the transport module capable of transporting the at least one slide in at least two different directions; a reader associated with the automated transport module, the reader capable of reading an identifier positioned on the at least one slide being transported by the automated transport module; and a controller for directing transport of the at least one slide by the transport module, wherein the controller is in communication with the reader and reading of the identifier by the reader indicates to the controller that the at least one slide is on the automated transport module. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the storage module comprises an indexing system for identifying a location of the at least one slide within the storage module. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the storage module comprises a plurality of slide storage stations. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transport module comprises at least one of a conveyor belt or a set of conveyor pallets disposed in a horizontal plane. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the transport module comprises a conveyor configured for bi-directional transport. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the imaging module comprises a plurality of imaging modules. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the imaging module is a charge coupled device (CCD). 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller comprises machine readable instructions that, when executed by the controller, cause the controller to place a slide in the imaging module when the imaging module is available for receiving a slide. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller comprises machine readable instructions that, when executed by the controller, cause the controller to retrieve a slide from the storage module and transport the slide to the imaging module. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the storage module is a slide storage module, the apparatus further comprising: a tissue block storage module. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the slide storage module and the tissue block storage module are integrated. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the controller comprises machine readable instructions that, when executed by the controller, cause the controller to retrieve a tissue block from the tissue block storage module. 