A titer plate and a method for detecting an analyte, and the use thereof are disclosed. According to at least one embodiment of the invention, it is proposed that a plurality of depressions and a biochip of the titer plate sposed adjacent thereto be surrounded by a wall in order to effectively prevent sample contamination when there is a high degree of spatial integration.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A titer plate for detecting an analyte, comprising: a plurality of units, each unit including: multiple wells; and a biochip, the biochip is designed to detect an analyte and is in contact with an electrical contact surface of a reading device to generate an electrical signal in the presence of the analyte, each unit being individually enclosed by a wall. 2. The titer plate as claimed in claim 1, wherein the biochip is arranged next to the wells and wherein a recess in the titer plate is bordered by the wall, and wherein the multiple wells and the biochip are each arranged at the base of the recess. 3. The titer plate as claimed in claim 2, wherein each unit is arranged in a recess in the titer plate. 4. The titer plate as claimed in claim 3, wherein each recess is open on a first side of the titer plate, and wherein an opposite side of the titer plate is provided with a slot for the biochip and is further provided with curvatures that form the bottom of the wells. 5. The titer plate as claimed in claim 2, wherein each recess is formed as an elongated hole which spans all wells in the unit and the biochip, which are enclosed by the wall. 6. The titer plate as claimed in claim 1, wherein one elastomeric seal is applied on the at least one biochip and includes one filling port. 7. The titer plate as claimed in claim 6, wherein, on the elastomeric seal of the biochip, at least one deposit position is provided for a pipet tip. 8. The titer plate as claimed in claim 1, wherein the titer plate is injection-molded. 9. The titer plate as claimed in claim 7, wherein a biochip chamber is formed between the biochip and the seal and the biochip chamber is connectable with an overflow reservoir in order to collect a liquid from the biochip chamber. 10. The titer plate as claimed in claim 9, wherein a wick element for soaking up liquid from the biochip chamber is arranged in the overflow reservoir. 11. The titer plate as claimed in claim 1, wherein a hole penetrating the titer plate is present within a recess. 12. The titer plate as claimed in claim 2, wherein the biochip is designed for detecting DNA by way of hybridization. 