An apparatus for milking an animal and provides a milking parlor (1) including first and second robotic manipulation devices (100, 200) and a plurality of milking stalls (5) provided on a platform (3) moveable relative to the robotic manipulation devices (100, 200) wherein the robotic manipulation devices (100, 200) are positioned so as to be capable of simultaneously servicing neighboring milking stalls (5) on the platform (3).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A parallel rotary milking parlour, comprising: a rotatable platform; neighboring milking stalls arranged side by side circumferentially in a parallel configuration along the platform so that each animal stands in one stall so as to face radially inward towards a center of rotation of the platform, each stall comprising a teat cup magazine and plural teat cups removably located within the magazine; and an automatic system comprising of first and second robot arms and an electronic control system, the control system controlling movement of the two robot arms coordinated with rotary movement of the platform, each robot arm further controlled to automatically attach the teat cups to teats of an animal within the stall, each robot arm located adjacent the platform and comprised of i) first, second, third arm sections connected to one another by elbow joints, ii) a swivel unit fixedly mounted at one location, the first arm section extending from the swivel unit and rotatable about a central axis of the swivel unit, and iii) a teat cup carrying part pivotably connected at an end of the third arm section, the swivel unit of the first robot arm spaced apart from the swivel unit of the second robot arm and positioned so that the first and second robot arms are operable to simultaneously service adjacent stalls, as the platform rotates, with the robot arms moving the teat cups from the magazine into attachment with the teats of the animals in the adjacent stalls, each robot arm being sufficiently extendable from the one location, at any single point in time, to service both a first stall positioned immediately adjacent one of the robot arms and a second stall neighboring the first stall, and each robot arm being sufficiently extendable from the one location to have a working range spanning a width of three milking stalls. 2. A parallel rotary milking parlour, comprising: a rotatable platform; a plurality of milking stalls located on the platform side by side circumferentially in a parallel configuration so that each animal stands in one stall so as to face radially inward towards a center of rotation of the platform; and first and second robotic manipulation devices located adjacent the platform, the platform moveable relative to the robotic manipulation devices; and the first and second robotic manipulation devices controlled for simultaneously servicing neighboring milking stalls, each robotic manipulation device comprising an arm sufficiently extendable, from one position and at any single point in time, to service both a first stall positioned immediately adjacent one of the robotic manipulation devices and a second stall neighboring the first stall. 3. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein, in use, each robotic manipulation device services a milking stall as said stall moves from the position of said second stall to the position of said first stall upon movement of the platform. 4. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein the first and second robotic manipulation devices are spaced from one another by a distance substantially equal to a circumference width dimension of a milking stall which extends in the direction of movement of the platform. 5. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein the platform is moveable relative to a floor of the parlour and wherein the first and second robotic manipulation devices are provided with a base moveable relative to said floor. 6. A milking parlour according to claim 5, wherein the or each base is moveable in the direction of movement of the platform, and the or each base is moveable at a speed which maintains the robotic manipulation device provided with said base in a substantially constant position relative to an individual milking stall on the platform. 7. A milking parlour according to claim 5, further comprising a first telescopically extendable element with which the base of the first robotic manipulation device is moved, and a second telescopically extendable element with which the base of the second robotic manipulation device is moved. 8. A milking parlour according to claim 7, wherein at least one of said robotic manipulation devices is carried by the extendable element with which the one robotic manipulation device is moved. 9. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein the first and second manipulation devices service milking stalls in the same way. 10. A milking parlour according to claim 9, wherein said servicing of a milking stall comprises attaching teat cups to the teats of an animal located within said stall. 11. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein the parlour further comprises an entrance preventing, in use, entry to the platform of more than one animal at any one time, the entrance to the platform spanning no more than one milking stall. 12. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein information regarding the activity of a robotic manipulation device is sent electronically from said device. 13. A milking parlour according to claim 12, wherein said information comprises data recording a current real-time position of the robotic manipulation device and/or the number of teat cups successfully attached to a cow positioned in a milking stall currently being serviced by the robotic manipulation device. 14. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein the milking parlour comprises two or more robotic manipulation devices including at least the first and second robotic manipulation devices, and information regarding the activity of two of the two or more robotic manipulation devices is exchanged electronically between said two robotic manipulation devices. 15. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein an electronic control system determines the position of each robotic manipulation device and determines movement of each robotic manipulation device so as to avoid said devices colliding with one another. 16. A milking parlour according to claim 15, wherein a common volume of an area within a working range of both the first and second robotic manipulation devices is considered by the electronic control system as a plurality of sub-volumes, said control system preventing more than one robotic manipulation device from locating in the same sub-volume at the same time. 17. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein, upon completing the servicing of one stall by one of the robotic manipulation devices, an electronic control system directs said robotic manipulation device to begin servicing a further stall without waiting for the servicing of the stall by the other of the robotic manipulation devices to be completed. 18. A milking parlour according to claim 17, wherein said further stall is said stall being serviced by the other of the robotic manipulation devices whereby the first and second robotic manipulation devices assist one another in completing the servicing of said stall. 19. A milking parlour according to claim 2, wherein the arm of each robotic manipulation device is sufficiently extendable to provide each robotic manipulation device with a working range spanning the width of at least two stalls. 20. A method of operating a milking parlour of claim 2, the method comprising the step of controlling the first and second robotic manipulation devices so that said devices simultaneously service both the first stall and the second stall on the platform. 21. A method according to claim 20, wherein each robotic manipulation device is controlled so as to service every other milking stall on the platform. 22. A method according to claim 20, wherein each robotic manipulation device is moved, as a whole, at a speed which maintains said robotic manipulation device in a substantially constant position relative to a corresponding milking stall on the platform. 23. A method according to claim 22, wherein each robotic manipulation device is moved by means of a telescopically extendable element. 24. A method according to claim 20, wherein the first and second manipulation devices service milking stalls in the same way. 25. A method according to claim 20, wherein said servicing of a milking stall comprises the step of attaching a teat cup to the teat of an animal located within said stall. 26. A method according to claim 20, wherein after having completed the servicing of a milking stall, the robotic manipulation device associated with said stall begins servicing a further stall without waiting for the other of the robotic manipulation devices to complete the servicing of a milking stall. 27. A method according to claim 26, wherein said further stall is said stall being serviced by the other of the robotic manipulation devices whereby the first and second robotic manipulation devices assist one another in completing servicing of said stall. 