A system, method and computer program product for data collection and analysis using robotic devices. The system comprises creating a map of a facility, loading at least one position and at least one task onto a robotic device, autonomously navigating the robotic device to the at least one position to collect data, sending the data to a database for storage, processing and analyzing the data by a server, and presenting analysis of the data to a user.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for data collection and analysis using robotic devices comprising: creating a map of a facility; loading at least one position and at least one task onto a robotic device; autonomously navigating the robotic device to the at least one position to collect data; controlling the at least one position and the at least one task of the robotic device in real-time to collect the data; sending the data to a database for storage; processing and analyzing the data by a server; and presenting analysis of the data to a user, wherein the processing and analyzing the data by a server comprises: retrieving at least one measurement from the database; retrieving at least one position information for each of the at least one measurement from the database; determining an air flow speed based on the at least one measurement and the at least one position information; and determining an air flow direction based on the at least one measurement and the at least one position information. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein autonomously navigating the robotic device to the at least one position to collect data comprises: identifying at least one location, the at least one task, and at least one goal associated with the at least one task for the robotic device; navigating the robotic device to the at least one location on the map; elevating an extendable mast to a predefined height; and collecting data using at least one sensor positioned on top of the extendable mast. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining if the at least one goal has been reached for the at least one task; and continuing to collect data if the at least one goal has not been reached for the at least one task. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining if the at least one task has been completed if the at least one goal has been reached for the at least one task. 5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: providing a camera positioned on top of the extendable mast; and collecting at least one image of at least one bar code of at least one item in the facility using the camera. 6. The method of claim 2, further comprising: providing a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) reader positioned on top of the extendable mast; and collecting at least one RFID tag of at least one item in the facility using the RFID reader. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calculating a resultant air flow velocity vector based on the air flow speed and the air flow direction; and generating a graphical map based on the resultant air flow velocity vector. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein processing and analyzing the data by a server further comprises: retrieving at least one measurement from the database; retrieving at least one position information for each of the at least one measurement from the database; generating a resultant data by interpreting the at least one measurement and the at least one position information; and generating a graphical map based on the resultant data. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein sending the data to a database for storage comprises: sending the data from the robotic device to a data processing system via a wireless connection; sending the data from the data processing system to a server; and forwarding the data from the server to the database for storage. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein sending the data to a database for storage comprises: sending the data from the robotic device to the server via a wireless connection; and forwarding the data from the server to the database for storage. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein controlling at least one position and at least one task of a robotic device in real-time to collect data comprises: presenting the map to a user on a Web interface; allowing the user to zoom in or out of the map; allowing the user to click on the map to identify a specific location; and sending the robotic device to the specific location. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: associating a timestamp with the data collected; and storing the timestamp in the database. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein processing and analyzing the data by a server further comprises: collecting location information of at least one bar code or at least one Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) of at least one item in the facility; retrieving location information for each of the at least one bar code or at least one RFID from the database; comparing collected location information and location information from the database; determining if a discrepancy exists between the collected location information and location information from the database; and determining if the collected location information is not in the database. 14. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising computer readable code for implementing the method comprising the steps: creating a map of a facility; loading at least one position and at least one task onto a robotic device; autonomously navigating the robotic device to the at least one position to collect data; controlling the at least one position and the at least one task of the robotic device in real-time to collect the data; sending the data to a database for storage; processing and analyzing the data by a server; and presenting analysis of the data to a user, wherein the processing and analyzing the data by a server comprises: retrieving at least one measurement from the database; retrieving at least one position information for each of the at least one measurement from the database; determining an air flow speed based on the at least one measurement and the at least one position information; and determining an air flow direction based on the at least one measurement and the at least one position information. 