High throughput screening of crystallization of a target material is accomplished by simultaneously introducing a solution of the target material into a plurality of chambers of a microfabricated fluidic device. The microfabricated fluidic device is then manipulated to vary the solution condition in the chambers, thereby simultaneously providing a large number of crystallization environments. Control over changed solution conditions may result from a variety of techniques, including but not limited to metering volumes of crystallizing agent into the chamber by volume exclusion, by entrapment of volumes of crystallizing agent determined by the dimensions of the microfabricated structure, or by cross-channel injection of sample and crystallizing agent into an array of junctions defined by intersecting orthogonal flow channels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of priming an elastomeric microfluidic device with a liquid material, the method comprising: loading a plurality of wells on an upper surface of the elastomeric microfluidic device with the liquid material; biasing a holder piece against the upper surface such that a continuous raised rim of the holder piece presses against the upper surface surrounding the wells, such that a chamber is created over the wells; and applying a positive pressure to the chamber to drive the material from the wells into an active area of the elastomeric microfluidic device. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the raised rim deforms to engage the upper surface. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein upper surface deforms to engage the raised rim. 4. A method of actuating a valve within a microfluidic elastomer device, the method comprising: applying a holder piece having a continuous raised rim against a surface of the microfluidic device having a plurality of control line outlets to create a chamber over the outlets; and applying a positive or negative pressure to the chamber to control a pressure within a control line and thereby actuate an elastomeric valve membrane of the microfluidic device that is in communication with the control line. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the raised rim is elastic and deforms to engage the surface. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the surface is elastic and deforms to engage the raised rim. 7. A method of exercising temporal control over diffusion between two fluids, the method comprising: providing a microfluidic flow channel in an elastomer material, a membrane portion of the elastomer material positioned within the flow channel to define a valve; priming a first portion of the flow channel on one side of the membrane with a first fluid; priming a second portion of the flow channel on the opposite side of the membrane with a second fluid; and repeatedly moving the elastomer membrane into and out of the flow channel over time to allow diffusion between the first fluid and the second fluid across the valve. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the elastomer membrane is moved into and out of the flow channel in response to a reduced pressure within a control recess positioned in the elastomer material adjacent to the membrane. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the first fluid is a crystallizing agent and the second fluid is a crystallization target solution, such that the elastomer membrane is repeatedly displaced to alter a solution environment of the flow channel to promote crystallization of a target material. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein a combined volume of the first fluid and the second fluid is 50 nL or less. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the active area of the elastomeric microfluidic device comprises a dead-ended chamber or channel. 