Methods, biomarkers, and expression signatures are disclosed for assessing the regulation status of growth factor pathway signaling in a cell sample or subject. More specifically, several aspects of the invention provide a set of genes which can be used as biomarkers and gene signatures for evaluating growth factor pathway deregulation status in a sample; classifying a cell sample as having a deregulated or regulated growth factor signaling pathway; determining whether an agent modulates the growth factor signaling pathway in sample; predicting response of a subject to an agent that modulates the growth factor signaling pathway; assigning treatment to a subject; and predicting evaluating the pharmacodynamic effects of cancer therapies designed to regulate growth factor pathway signaling.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying a subject harboring a tumor who is predicted to respond to an agent that modulates a PI3K growth factor signaling pathway, said method comprising: (a) isolating a tumor cell sample from a subject; (b) calculating a signature score which represents the regulation status of PI3K growth factor pathway signaling of the tumor by a method comprising: (i) measuring the a) expression level of each of a first plurality of genes and each of a second plurality of genes in an isolated tumor cell sample, wherein first plurality of genes has at least 3 or more of the genes for which biomarkers are listed in Table 5a, wherein the at least 3 genes include TRIP13, TOMM40 and CTPS, and said second plurality of genes has at least 3 or more of the genes for which biomarkers are listed in Table 5b, wherein the at least 3 genes include MST1, CTDSP2 and FANK1; (ii) measuring the expression level of each of said first plurality of genes and each of said second plurality of genes in a control cell sample; (iii) calculating the differential expression values of each of said first plurality of genes in (i) relative to each of said first plurality of genes in (ii), and calculating the mean differential expression value for said first plurality of genes; (iv) calculating the differential expression value of each of said second plurality of genes in (i) relative to each of said second plurality of genes in (ii), and calculating the mean differential expression value for said second plurality of genes; and, (v) calculating the signature score by subtracting said mean differential expression value of said second plurality of genes from said mean differential expression value of said first plurality of genes; and (c) classifying said tumor as having a deregulated growth factor signaling pathway if said obtained signature score is above a predetermined threshold, and ii) if said signature score is statistically significant; wherein a subject harboring a tumor classified as having a deregulated growth factor signaling pathway is identified as a subject who is predicted to respond to an agent that modulates a PI3K growth factor signaling pathway, and wherein steps (b) and (c) are displayed or outputted to a user interface device, a computer readable storage medium, or a local or remote computer system. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said first plurality of genes includes at least 5 of the genes for which biomarkers are listed in Table 9a and said second plurality of genes includes at least 5 genes for which biomarkers are listed in Table 9b. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first plurality of genes consist of all of the genes for which biomarkers are listed in Table 9a and the second plurality of genes consist of all of the genes for which biomarkers are listed in Table 9b. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said differential expression value is log(10) ratio. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said predetermined threshold is 0. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said signature score is statistically significant if it has a p-value less than 0.05. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is a human. 