A microfluidic device is described that has a slug mixing arrangement. A reaction well has an input flow channel with a first valve near the reaction well, and a second valve further from the reaction well. A fluid source is connected to the segment in between the two valves. A second fluid source is connected behind the second valve. The channel between the two valves receives the first fluid by blind filling when the two valves are closed. The reaction well receives the first fluid followed by the second fluid when the first and second valves are open.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mixing arrangement in an elastomeric microfluidic device, the mixing arrangement comprising: a) a reaction well having a single inlet from a flow channel; b) a first valve configured to open and close the flow channel at a position at or near the single inlet into the reaction well; c) a second valve configured to open and close the flow channel at a position further from the reaction well than the first valve, thereby defining a segment of the flow channel between the first and second valve; d) a source of a first fluid that is fluidically connected to said segment by way of a first input channel forming a junction with the segment between the first and second valve; and e) a source of a second fluid that is fluidically connected to said segment by way of a second input channel positioned behind the second valve; wherein said segment of the flow channel is configured to receive a volume of the first fluid into the segment by blind filling from the first input channel when the first and second valves are closed; and wherein said reaction well is configured to receive said volume of the first fluid followed by a volume of the second fluid from said segment when the first and second valves are open. 2. The mixing arrangement of claim 1, further comprising a third valve positioned to open and close the first input channel at or near said junction. 3. A microfluidic device comprising a matrix of the mixing arrangements according to claim 2 arranged in columns and rows, wherein the third valves of each mixing arrangement in each column of the matrix are actuated by a common control channel. 4. The mixing arrangement of claim 1, wherein said segment is bounded on at least one side by a material that is permeable to gases and not to liquid. 5. The mixing arrangement of claim 4, wherein said segment is configured so that flowing the first fluid into the segment under pressure from the first input channel with the first and second valves closed causes gas present in the segment to diffuse out through the gas permeable material so that a defined volume of the first fluid is contained in the segment. 6. The mixing arrangement of claim 1, wherein said reaction well is configured so that when a volume of the first fluid is contained in the segment, flowing the second fluid into the segment under pressure from the second input channel with the first and second valves open causes said volume of the first fluid and a defined volume of the second fluid to be mixed in the reaction well. 7. The mixing arrangement of claim 1, wherein said first fluid is a reagent solution. 8. The mixing arrangement of claim 1, wherein said second fluid is a sample solution. 9. A microfluidic device comprising a matrix of the mixing arrangements according to claim 1 arranged in columns and rows. 10. The microfluidic device of claim 9, wherein each column of mixing arrangements is fluidically connected to a source of the first fluid by way of a common input channel. 11. The microfluidic device of claim 9, wherein each row of mixing arrangements is fluidically connected to a source of the second fluid by way of a common input channel. 12. The microfluidic device of claim 9, configured so that said first fluid and said second fluid are supplied to each of said mixing arrangements from different layers of the device. 13. A microfluidic device comprising a matrix of the mixing arrangements according to claim 1 arranged in columns and rows, wherein the first and second valves of each mixing arrangement in each row of the matrix are actuated by a common control channel. 14. A microfluidic device comprising a matrix of unit cells arranged in columns and rows; wherein each unit cell comprises: a) a reaction well with a flow channel connected thereto; b) a first valve configured to open and close the flow channel at a position at or near its connection to the reaction well; c) a second valve configured to open and close the flow channel at a position further from the reaction well than the first valve, thereby defining a segment of the flow channel between the first and second valve; d) a source of a first fluid that is fluidically connected to said segment by way of a first input channel forming a junction with the segment between the first and second valve, wherein said segment of the flow channel is configured to receive a volume of the first fluid into the segment by blind filling from the first input channel when the first and second valves are closed; and e) a source of a second fluid that is fluidically connected to said segment by way of a second input channel positioned behind the second valve, wherein each unit cell is configured so that the reaction well can receive a volume of the first fluid followed by a volume of the second fluid from said segment by blind filling through a single open channel into the reaction well when the first and second valves are open; wherein each column of unit cells in the device is fluidically connected to a source of a first fluid by way of a first common input channel; and wherein each row of unit cells in the device is fluidically connected to a source of a second fluid by way of a second common input channel. 15. The microfluidic device of claim 14, wherein the reaction well in each unit cell has a single flow channel connected thereto. 16. The microfluidic device of claim 14, wherein the reaction well in each unit cell has two flow channels connected thereto. 17. The microfluidic device of claim 14, wherein the segment of each unit cell is bounded on at least one side by a material that is permeable to gases and not to liquid, and is configured so that flowing the first fluid into the segment under pressure from the first input channel with the first and second valves closed causes gas present in the segment to diffuse out through the gas permeable material so that a defined volume of the first fluid is contained in the segment. 18. The microfluidic device of claim 14, wherein the reaction well of each unit cell is configured so that when a volume of the first fluid is contained in the segment, flowing the second fluid into the segment under pressure with the first and second valves open causes said volume of the first fluid and a defined volume of the second fluid to be mixed in the reaction well. 19. The microfluidic device of claim 14, wherein each unit cell further comprises a third valve positioned to open and close the source of the first fluid at or near said junction. 20. The microfluidic device of claim 19, wherein the third valves of each unit cell in each column of the matrix are actuated by a first common control channel. 21. The microfluidic device of claim 14, wherein the first and second valves of each unit cell in each row of the matrix are actuated by a second common control channel. 22. A microfluidic device comprising a matrix of unit cells arranged in columns and rows; wherein each unit cell comprises: a) a reaction well with a flow channel connected thereto; b) a first valve configured to open and close the flow channel at a position at or near its connection to the reaction well; c) a second valve configured to open and close the flow channel at a position further from the reaction well than the first valve, thereby defining a segment of the flow channel between the first and second valve; d) a source of a first fluid that is fluidically connected to said segment by way of a first input channel forming a junction with the segment between the first and second valve, wherein said segment of the flow channel is configured to receive a volume of the first fluid into the segment by blind filling from the first input channel when the first and second valves are closed; and e) a source of a second fluid that is fluidically connected to said segment by way of a second input channel positioned behind the second valve, wherein said reaction well is configured to receive said volume of the first fluid followed by a volume of the second fluid from said segment when the first and second valves are open; wherein each column of unit cells in the device is fluidically connected to a source of a first fluid by way of a first common input channel; wherein each row of unit cells in the device is fluidically connected to a source of a second fluid by way of a second common input channel; and wherein said segment of the flow channel in each unit forms one or more additional junctions with additional input channels. 23. The microfluidic device of claim 22, wherein each unit further comprises valve(s) positioned to open and close said segment between each junction with an input channel. 24. The microfluidic device of claim 22, wherein each unit further comprises valve(s) positioned to open and close each of said additional input channels at or near its respective junction with said segment. 