This invention is an assembly and method for releasably connecting a gripper finger to a robotic arm with only manual manipulation. The assembly includes a finger body having a quick-change bar connected to a locking lever. The locking lever can be rotated by hand to engage and disengage the assembly to connect a finger to a gripper connected to a robot. The locking lever provides a sleeve and pin which interact to lock the assembly. The sleeve and pin can have recessed surfaces formed to interact with roll pins or screws to restrict behavior of the quick-change device during engagement.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An assembly for releasably connecting a gripper finger to a robotic arm comprising: a gripper having a first and second arm and a gripper bar, a cylindrical bar connecting said arms, said arms having parallel circular cavities, said parallel circular cavities having an opening, said opening defining a first and second lip; and a finger member comprising a finger and a body, said body having a locking lever connected to a locking bar extending through said finger member, and a cylindrical cavity, said cylindrical cavity defined by a longitudinal passageway along the length of the cavity, said passageway defining a first and second lip, wherein said gripper bar mates with said passageway of said cylindrical cavity of said finger member and said openings of arms of said gripper receiving said locking bar, wherein said locking lever is rotated and clamps said gripper to said finger member. 2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the gripper bar comprises a head and a shaft. 3. The assembly of claim 2, further comprising: a retaining member extending into a cylindrical cavity on an end of said locking lever; and a groove in said head of said gripper bar, wherein said retaining member engages said groove to lock said locking bar when said locking lever is positioned on the head. 4. The assembly of claim 3, wherein said head is a threaded retaining pin, said locking lever having a cavity having a threaded surface for threadably receiving said threaded retaining pin. 5. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said locking bar comprises: a pin having a flanged first end and a second end, said locking lever rotatably connected to said flanged first end of said pin, said second end of said pin having a threaded surface; and a sleeve having an axial bore extending therethrough and a flanged second end, said axial bore having a threaded surface, wherein said threaded surface of said bore of said sleeve is threadably connected to said threaded surface of said second end of said pin. 6. The assembly of claim 5, further comprising: a slotted surface between said pin and said finger body formed of a recess extending radially about the circumference of said pin, said recess having a first and second wall; and a hole through said body of said finger member aligned with said slotted surface for receiving a member, wherein said member is received by said hole through said gripper and into said slotted surface, said first and second wall limiting vertical movement of said pin. 7. The assembly of claim 5, further comprising: a roll pin; a slotted surface of said sleeve, said slotted surface defining an opening formed partially along the length and extending radially through the sleeve; and a hole through said body of said finger member in alignment with said slotted surface of said sleeve, wherein said roll pin is received by said hole and displaced through said finger member through said slotted surface into said finger member, said slotted surface of said sleeve interacting with said roll pin to limit rotational and vertical movement of said sleeve. 8. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a spring positioned between said recess and said flanged surface of said sleeve, said spring for adjusting the locking bar and locking lever during engagement. 9. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the locking lever and locking bar limit longitudinal rotation of said finger about the gripper. 10. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the gripper arms limit vertical rotation of said finger. 11. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the gripper bar and locking bar limit lateral rotation of said finger. 12. The assembly of claim 1, wherein surfaces of said longitudinal passageway of said cylindrical cavity of said finger member are smoothed surfaces for sliding the gripper bar into alignment. 13. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said first and second lip of said gripper arm cavities are chamfered for directing alignment. 