A system and apparatus for automation of microscope slide sample staining is disclosed. The slides are labelled with a unique identification, preferably a machine readable code printed onto a label, where the label is affixed to the slide. The label is a pointer to information in a database containing patient data on the sample, including staining protocol and reagents to be applied. Also disclosed is a reagent identification system where reagent containers used in the above staining system having a unique package identifier, preferably in the form of a label having a machine readable code. Data relating to the contents of the reagent containers, such as volume, batch number, reagent type and expiry date, is stored in a database in association with the unique package identifier. Using the reagent container unique package identifier it is possible to associate the type of protocol, and precise reagent used in the test with the patient data, allowing tracking of the test applied to the sample.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An analysis system comprising: an apparatus for applying reagents to tissue samples mounted on slides, the apparatus having: a first reader that reads a unique identifier relating to at least one of reagents prior to the reagents being added to the system and slides prior to the slides being loaded into the system; a moveable second reader that moves to read unique identifiers applied to the slides after slides have been loaded onto the apparatus, and that moves to read unique identifiers applied to reagent containers after reagent containers have been loaded, and a controller which receives input from the first reader regarding at least one of reagents being added to the system and slides being loaded into the system and receives input from the second reader as slides are analyzed by the system, wherein the controller, after input from the second reader, applies reagents from the reagent containers to the slides in accordance with separately input test protocol information. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first reader is a handheld scanning device and the second reader is mounted to a robot arm. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the reagent container has two identifiers, and wherein a first identifier is readable by the first reader and contains reagent volume information, and a second identifier is readable by the second moveable reader and contains unique identifier information. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the first identifier includes additional information including one or more of the following: reagent container capacity, expiry date and reagent batch number. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first reader reads a unique identifier relating to a slide or a reagent container prior to the slide or reagent container being loaded onto the apparatus. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first reader reads a unique identifier relating to a slide prior to the slide being loaded onto the apparatus. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first reader reads a unique identifier relating to a reagent container prior to the reagent container being loaded onto the apparatus. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first reader reads a unique identifier on a side of a fixed tray, the tray comprising a plurality of reagent containers. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the fixed tray is a detection kit for a particular disease. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the fixed tray has the unique identifier on the side of the fixed tray, and each of the plurality of containers has a unique identifier. 11. The system of claim 8, wherein when the first reader reads the unique identifier on the side of the fixed tray, the control system recognizes the contents of the plurality of containers in the fixed tray. 