The present invention is related to the field of semiconductor processing equipment and methods and provides, in particular, methods for the sustained, high-volume production of Group III-V compound semiconductor material suitable for fabrication of optic and electronic components, for use as substrates for epitaxial deposition, for wafers and so forth. In preferred embodiments, these methods are optimized for producing Group III-N (nitrogen) compound semiconductor wafers and specifically for producing GaN wafers. Specifically, the method includes reacting an amount of a gaseous Group III precursor as one reactant with an amount of a gaseous Group V component as another reactant in a reaction chamber under conditions sufficient to provide sustained high volume manufacture of the semiconductor material on one or more substrates, with the gaseous Group III precursor continuously provided at a mass flow of 50 g Group III element/hour for at least 48 hours.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for epitaxial deposition of a monocrystalline Group III-V semiconductor material, which comprises reacting an amount of a gaseous Group III precursor comprising gallium trichloride as one reactant with an amount of a gaseous Group V component as another reactant in a CVD reaction chamber under conditions sufficient to provide sustained high volume manufacture of the Group III-V semiconductor material on one or more substrates, with the gaseous Group III precursor provided at a controllable mass flow of the Group III element sufficient to provide high volume manufacturing of the Group III-V semiconductor material at a deposition rate of at least 50 g Group III element per hour for a period of at least 48 hours. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the gaseous Group V component is a nitrogen containing component and is provided in a substantially greater amount than that of the gaseous Group III precursor so that a monocrystalline Group III nitride is provided. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the nitrogen containing component is a nitrogen containing gas such as ammonia or a nitrogen ion or radical generated by plasma-activation of nitrogen gas. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the gaseous Group III precursor is a gallium compound that is continuously provided as a mass flow that delivers at least 5 kg gallium. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the gallium trichloride is provided by heating solid gallium trichloride optionally while encouraging increased evaporation to provide a mass flow rate of gaseous gallium trichloride sufficient to provide high volume manufacturing of the Group III-V semiconductor material at a deposition rate of at least 100 g gallium/hour for a period of at least 100 hours. 6. The method of claim 5 which further comprises heating the gaseous gallium trichloride at a temperature which is sufficiently high to decompose Ga.sub.2Cl.sub.6 dimer before the gaseous gallium trichloride enters the reaction chamber. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the gaseous gallium trichloride is heated to at least 700.degree. C. prior to entering the reaction chamber. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the solid gallium trichloride is initially heated to a temperature sufficient to induce a low viscosity liquid state on the order of ambient temperature water, and which further comprises bubbling a carrier gas into the liquid gallium trichloride during the heating to generate the gaseous gallium trichloride. 9. The method of claim 5 which further comprises controlling the mass flow of gaseous gallium trichloride to provide the amount in the reaction chamber. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction chamber includes one or more walls and which further comprises cooling the reaction chamber to reduce or prevent deposition of the Group III precursor or reaction byproducts on the reaction chamber wall(s) to provide a longer operating time before maintenance is required. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction chamber is cooled by circulating air externally around the reaction chamber. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction chamber includes an outlet and exhaust conduit for removing exhaust gases including unreacted gaseous Group III precursor, unreacted gaseous Group V component and reaction byproducts, and which further comprises heating the outlet and exhaust conduit to a temperature sufficient to prevent condensation of the exhaust gases. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the gases are removed by a pump and which further comprises thermally destructing the exhausted gases to form Group III oxide solids and recovering the Group III oxide solids for recycling and formation of the Group III precursor. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the reaction chamber is configured as a horizontal rectangular chamber and which further comprises introducing the gaseous reactants through different portions of the chamber to avoid reaction until they reach a predetermined location adjacent and above the substrate(s). 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the chamber includes a floor, a ceiling, a pair of sidewalls, an open inlet and an open outlet, and which further comprises introducing one gaseous reactant through the floor of the chamber while introducing the other gaseous reactant through the inlet, optionally in combination with one or more purge gas streams, to direct the other reactant to the predetermined location to efficiently deposit the monocrystalline material on the substrate(s). 16. The method of claim 15 wherein one gaseous reactant is introduced through an elongated slit-like port in the floor of the chamber and which further comprises providing a gate valve through which the other gaseous reactant and optional purge gas stream(s) pass to enter the chamber. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the reaction chamber is made of quartz, the gate valve is made of metal, and which further comprises providing an o-ring between the gate valve and reactor, and cooling the gate valve to avoid deteriorating the o-ring during operation. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein the gaseous Group III precursor is provided at the controllable mass flow of at least 50 g per hour and for a time of at least 48 hours without requiring interruption of the high volume manufacturing process. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein the controllable mass flow of the Group III element is at least 100 g per hour. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising, prior to the step of conducting, the steps of: loading a reservoir with at least 2 kg of solid GaCl.sub.3; heating the solid GaCl.sub.3 to temperatures between about 120.degree. C. and 130.degree. C. so as to form lower viscosity liquid GaCl.sub.3; and providing a carrier gas flow through the reservoir so as to transport gaseous GaCl.sub.3. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein the gaseous Group III precursor is provided at the controllable mass flow of at least 50 g per hour and for a time of at least one hour without requiring interruption of the high volume manufacturing process. 22. A method for epitaxial deposition of a monocrystalline Group III-V semiconductor material, which comprises conducting an amount of gaseous GaCl.sub.3 from a reservoir of liquid GaCl.sub.3 to a reaction chamber along a flow path; controlling the temperature of the flow path to increase from the reservoir to the reaction chamber; and reacting the amount of gaseous GaCl.sub.3 as one reactant with an amount of a gaseous Group V component as another reactant in a reaction chamber under conditions sufficient to provide sustained high volume manufacture of the semiconductor material on one or more substrates, with the gaseous Group III precursor provided at a controllable mass flow of the Group III element sufficient to provide high volume manufacturing of the Group III-V semiconductor material at a deposition rate of at least 50 g per hour for a period of at least 48 hours. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the temperature of the flow path increases from about 130.degree. C. at the exit from the reservoir up to no more than about 160.degree. C. at the entrance to the reaction chamber. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein the gaseous GaCl.sub.3 is provided for a time of at least 48 hours without requiring interruption of the high volume manufacturing process. 