Disclosed is a spotter device and methods for the formation of microassays, biochips, biosensors, and cell cultures. The spotter may be used to deposit highly concentrated spots of protein or other materials on a microarray slide, wafer, or other surface. It may also be used to perform various chemistry steps on the same spots. The spotter increases the surface density of substances at each spot by directing a flow the desired substance (or a solution thereof) over the spot area until surface saturation is accomplished. The spotter may be loaded by well plate handling equipment. The spotter uses wells, microfluidic conduits, and orifices to deposit proteins, other biomolecules, or chemicals on a spot on a separate surface. Each orifice is connected to two wells via microconduits. When the spotter contacts a surface, a seal is formed between the orifices and the surface. The same or different substances may be flowed across each orifice. Any number of orifices may be incorporated into a spotter. The spotter is particularly useful for depositing proteins in high concentrations on a surface, since the spotter may be placed on a surface for an extended period of time.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spotter apparatus for depositing a substance from a carrier fluid onto a deposition surface in an ordered array, the spotter apparatus comprising: a deposition surface including at least one sensing component; a spotter having a support surface and a spotter face that is different from the support surface; a plurality of wells formed in the support surface, each of the plurality of wells having a capacity to hold a quantity of fluid; and a plurality of microconduits situated within the spotter, wherein each of said microconduits include a sidewall and a hole in said sidewall, thereby forming a plurality of microconduit holes that open directly onto the spotter face; wherein each of said plurality of microconduits is operably connected to at least two of the plurality of wells; and wherein the plurality of microconduit holes are configured to deposit the substance from the carrier fluid onto the deposition surface. 2. The spotter apparatus of claim 1, wherein the number of the plurality of wells is 8, 16, 32, 96, 384, or 1536 wells. 3. The spotter apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of microconduit holes arranged along the spotter face are arranged along a side or a bottom surface of the spotter relative to the support surface. 4. The spotter apparatus of claim 3, wherein the spotter face is configured so that pressing the spotter face onto the deposition surface is sufficient to form a seal between the plurality of microconduit holes and the deposition surface. 5. The spotter apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of microconduit holes arranged along the spotter face are arranged in a 2-D array. 6. The spotter apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a pumping manifold that interfaces with at least some of the plurality of wells. 7. The spotter apparatus of claim 6, wherein the pumping manifold interfaces with half of the plurality of wells. 8. The spotter apparatus of claim 6, wherein the pumping manifold is connected to a pump/vacuum device. 9. The spotter apparatus of claim 1, wherein the number of the plurality of microconduit holes arranged along the spotter face is 4, 7, 8, 14, 16, 28, 48, 84, 88, 192, 360, 368, 768, 1488, or 1504. 10. The spotter apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of microconduits are of varying lengths. 11. The spotter apparatus of claim 1, wherein the spotter is manufactured from a material selected from the group of: silicon, silica, polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS), gallium arsenide, glass, ceramics, quartz, neoprene, polyethylene elastomers, polybutadiene/SBR, nitriles, and combinations thereof. 12. The spotter apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of microconduit holes is respectively connected to two of the plurality of wells. 