The different illustrative embodiments provide an apparatus that includes a computer system, a number of structured light generators, and a number of mobile robotic devices. The computer system is configured to generate a path plan. The number of structured light generators is configured to project the path plan. The number of mobile robotic devices is configured to detect and follow the path plan.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for guiding a mobile robotic device, the method comprising: receiving commands to generate a guidance projection for a path plan; responsive to receiving the commands, generating the guidance projection for the path plan using a three-dimensional map; and projecting the guidance projection onto a contained area, wherein the step of generating the guidance projection using the three dimensional map further comprises: identifying a number of umbral areas; responsive to identifying the number of umbral areas, creating a number of umbral guides; and generating the guidance projection using the three-dimensional map and the number of umbral guides, wherein the guidance projection is a structured light projection that comprises a discernible path. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the guidance projection comprises a line path. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the guidance projection comprises a number of behavior codes that contain navigational instructions for the mobile robotic device. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the number of behavior codes are configured to guide the mobile robotic device after the guidance projection is no longer visible. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the contained area is at least one of an inside environment and an outside environment, and further comprising steps of: monitoring at least one object in the contained area; and responsive to monitoring the at least one object in the contained area, modifying the path plan. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of projecting the guidance projection onto the contained area is performed using multiple structured light generators. 7. The method of claim 6, where the guidance projection comprises a plurality of segments that are simultaneously projected using the multiple structured light generators. 8. The method of claim 6, where the guidance projection comprises a plurality of segments that are consecutively projected using the multiple structured light generators. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the path plan is generated using a path planning algorithm. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising steps of: generating the path plan using a mapping process; and communicating the generated path plan to a structured light generating process that projects the guidance projection onto the contained area. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the path plan comprises a set of navigational instructions that define a path for the mobile robotic device to follow. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of: tracking a position of the mobile robotic device relative to the guidance projection. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising a step of: responsive to tracking the position of the mobile robotic device relative to the guidance projection, modifying the path plan. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the guidance projection using the three-dimensional map, further comprises: creating a first three-dimensional map; annotating the first three-dimensional map to form a second three-dimensional map; creating a third three-dimensional map using the second three-dimensional map and current data; and generating a guidance projection using the third three-dimensional map. 