A flexible piezoelectric tactile sensor having a piezoelectric thin film, a first flexible substrate, a second flexible substrate, and at least one elastic body is revealed. The piezoelectric thin film includes an upper surface and a lower surface while the first flexible substrate is disposed on the upper surface of the piezoelectric thin film. The first flexible substrate consists of a first surface facing the upper surface, a second surface opposite to the first surface and a plurality of first electrodes formed on the first surface. The second flexible substrate, including a third surface facing the lower surface and a plurality of second electrodes formed on the third surface, is arranged on the lower surface of the piezoelectric thin film. Both the first electrodes and the second electrode are electrically connected with the piezoelectric thin film. The elastic body is set on the second surface, corresponding to the first electrodes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flexible piezoelectric tactile sensor comprising: a piezoelectric thin film having an upper surface and a lower surface; a first flexible substrate disposed on the upper surface of the piezoelectric thin film and the first flexible substrate having a first surface facing the upper surface, a second surface opposite to the first surface, and a plurality of first electrodes formed on the first surface and electrically connected with the piezoelectric thin film; a second flexible substrate arranged on the lower surface of the piezoelectric thin film and the second flexible substrate including a third surface facing the lower surface and a plurality of second electrodes formed on the third surface and electrically connected with the piezoelectric thin film; at least one elastic body set on the second surface of the first flexible substrate and corresponding to the first electrodes of the first flexible substrate; and a first connection layer disposed between the first flexible substrate and the piezoelectric thin film, said first connection layer is an anisotropic conductive film (ACF). 2. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first connection layer electrically connects the first electrodes with the piezoelectric thin film. 3. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the flexible piezoelectric tactile sensor further includes a second connection layer that is arranged between the second flexible substrate and the piezoelectric thin film. 4. The device as claimed in claim 3, wherein the second connection layer is an anisotropic conductive film (ACF). 5. The device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the second connection layer electrically connects the second electrodes with the piezoelectric thin film. 6. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the elastic body has a certain width and there is a certain distance between the two adjacent first electrodes; the certain width of the elastic body is larger than the certain distance. 7. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the flexible piezoelectric tactile sensor further includes at least one adhesive layer that is disposed between the elastic body and the first flexible substrate. 8. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein flexible piezoelectric tactile sensor further includes a molding compound that covers the piezoelectric thin film, the first flexible substrate, the second flexible substrate and the elastic body. 