A combination of a haptic device and a computer-assisted medical system is used for interactive haptic positioning of a medical device coupled to the haptic device. A reconfigurable haptic object facilitates the positioning of the medical device and/or the haptic device. The haptic object may be modified in response to application of a force against the haptic object by a user of the haptic device pushing the haptic device against the haptic object. Preferably, the haptic object moves in the direction of the force applied by the haptic device. The medical device may be guided to a desired pose relative to a target area from its current position. The user may approach the target area from its current position and still be provided with haptic cues to enable the user to guide the medical device to the target area.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A haptic surgical system, comprising: a computer-aided surgery system; a haptic device coupled to a surgical instrument and said computer-aided surgery system; and a processor programmed to: define a virtual surface associated with target region of an anatomy of a patient; generate a haptic interaction wrench based at least in part on a current pose of said surgical instrument relative to the virtual surface to guide said surgical instrument; and dynamically enable and disable portions of the virtual surface to facilitate a transition from one portion of the virtual surface to another portion of the virtual surface. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said virtual surface is a curved surface. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said processor is further programmed to provide at least one haptic cue to guide said surgical instrument from the current pose to a desired pose. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said processor is further programmed to provide the haptic cue to assist a user in sculpting a smooth surface without abrupt transitions on the anatomy of the patient. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said processor is further programmed to determine at least one haptic interaction wrench to be applied to said haptic device to maintain said surgical instrument in the current pose. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said processor is further programmed to provide at least one haptic cue to guide said surgical instrument toward said target region along a path defined at least in part by said virtual surface. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the haptic interaction wrench is configured to guide said surgical instrument to a desired pose relative to the virtual surface. 8. A method for haptic positioning of a surgical instrument, comprising: defining a virtual pathway to a target region of an anatomy of a patient and a virtual boundary defining an anatomical structure of the patient to be avoided, wherein defining the virtual pathway includes defining a virtual cutting surface; storing the defined virtual pathway and the defined virtual boundary; generating a virtual pathway haptic feedback based at least in part on a current pose of the surgical instrument relative to the stored virtual pathway and a protective haptic feedback indicative of interaction between the surgical instrument and the virtual boundary; and dynamically enabling and disabling portions of the virtual cutting surface to facilitate a transition from one portion of the virtual cutting surface to another portion of the virtual cutting surface. 9. The method of claim 8, further including: modifying at least one of said virtual pathway and the virtual boundary in response to a value of a scalar valued function of a haptic interaction wrench applied to said haptic device exceeding at least one threshold value. 10. The method of claim 8, further including: modifying at least one of the virtual pathway and the virtual boundary in response to a force applied by the surgical instrument against at least one of the virtual pathway and the virtual boundary and applying a haptic interaction wrench in response to said force. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: modifying at least one of the virtual pathway and the virtual boundary in response to a value of a scalar valued function of said haptic interaction wrench exceeding at least one threshold value. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said at least one threshold value is user configurable. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of the virtual pathway haptic feedback and the protective haptic feedback provide a haptic wrench that urges a surgeon to position the surgical instrument in a desired pose relative to said target region. 14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: guiding said surgical instrument into a desired pose relative to said target region from a current pose in accordance with at least one of the virtual pathway haptic feedback and the protective haptic feedback. 15. The method of claim 8, wherein the haptic feedback includes: a haptic interaction wrench that attracts said surgical instrument toward at least one of the virtual pathway and the virtual boundary to maintain said surgical instrument in a desired pose. 16. The method of claim 8, further comprising: tracking and displaying at least one of a current position and the current orientation of the surgical instrument on a display; modifying the virtual cutting surface in accordance with the at least one of the current position and the current orientation of the surgical instrument relative to the cutting surface. 17. The method of claim 8, further including: dynamically modifying the virtual cutting surface based on a current position of the surgical instrument relative to the virtual cutting surface to avoid abrupt transitions of the surgical instrument from one portion of the virtual cutting surface to another portion of the virtual cutting surface. 18. A method for haptic positioning of a surgical instrument comprising: displaying a graphical representation of a joint of a patient; defining at least one virtual surface in a target region of the joint; applying haptic feedback to a manual input device associated with the surgical instrument, the haptic feedback indicative of a relationship between the surgical instrument and the virtual surface, modifying the haptic feedback based on a current position and orientation of the surgical instrument to guide the surgical instrument from the current position and orientation to a desired position and orientation relative to said target region, and dynamically enabling and disabling portions of the virtual surface to facilitate a transition from one portion of the virtual surface to another portion of the virtual surface. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said modifying step includes: modifying a haptic interaction wrench applied to the manual input device such that the surgical instrument smoothly moves along the virtual surface. 20. The method of claim 18, further including: providing protective haptic feedback to the manual input device indicative of an interaction between the surgical instrument and a virtual boundary defining an anatomical structure of the joint wherein the haptic feedback is further applied in accordance with a relationship between the surgical instrument and the virtual boundary. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein said modifying step comprises: modifying said virtual surface in response to a force applied to the manual input device. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: generating at least one haptic interaction wrench in response to said force applied to said manual input device to move the surgical instrument against said virtual surface; and modifying the virtual surface in response to a value of a scalar valued function of the haptic interaction wrench exceeding a threshold value. 23. The method of claim 18, wherein applying the haptic feedback includes: generating a haptic wrench on the manual input device that inhibits the surgical instrument from crossing the virtual surface. 24. The method of claim 18, further comprising: providing a haptic cue to guide a surgeon in moving the manual input device to move said surgical instrument relative to said target region along a path defined at least in part by said virtual surface without sudden transitions. 25. The method of claim 18, further comprising: determining a second desired pose for said surgical device when the surgical device is in a current pose relative to said target region; and applying the haptic feedback to encourage a surgeon to move the surgical instrument from the current pose to the determined second desired pose. 26. A system for haptic positioning of a medical device coupled to a haptic device, the system comprising: a display configured to display a graphical representation of an anatomy of a patient containing a target region; a tracking system configured to track a position and orientation of the medical device relative to the target region; a processor programmed to: define a virtual pathway based on user input information, the virtual pathway depicting a proposed path to be followed by the medical device relative to the target region of the anatomy of the patient, display a visual representation of the virtual pathway and a current position and orientation of the medical device, and dynamically enable and disable portions of the virtual pathway to facilitate a transition from one portion of the virtual pathway to another portion of the virtual pathway; and a haptic feedback system which provides haptic feedback to the haptic device indicative of (1) an interaction between the medical device and a region of anatomy of the patient to be avoided and (2) the current orientation of the medical device relative to the virtual pathway. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein said processor is further programmed to: modify said virtual pathway in response to at least one of the current pose of the medical device and a force applied by said haptic device against said virtual pathway; and generate a haptic interaction wrench in response to at least one of the current pose and the force applied by said haptic device against said virtual pathway. 28. The system of claim 26, wherein said processor is further programmed to: modify said virtual pathway if a value of at least one scalar valued function of a haptic interaction wrench responsive to a force applied by said haptic device against the virtual pathway exceeds a threshold value. 29. The system of claim 26, wherein the medical device is a bone cutting surgical instrument and the virtual pathway defines a cutting plane associated with a bone of a patient. 30. The system of claim 26, wherein said processor is further programmed to: cause the haptic device to provide at least one haptic cue based on said virtual pathway and the current pose of the medical device to guide a user to a preselected second pose of the medical device. 31. The system of claim 26, wherein said processor is further programmed to: determine a haptic interaction wrench to be applied to said haptic device to maintain said medical device in a desired pose; and cause the haptic feedback system to apply the determined haptic interaction wrench. 32. The system of claim 26, wherein the medical device is a bone removal surgical instrument, the virtual pathway defines a target bone surface to be left after a portion of bone is removed, and said processor is further programmed to: dynamically modify the virtual pathway based on a current relationship between the bone removal surgical instrument coupled to the haptic device and the target bone surface. 