A pedestal positioning assembly system for use in a substrate processing system includes a pedestal rigidly attached to a pedestal shaft, a reference rigidly attached to the substrate processing system, a lateral adjustment assembly to adjust a lateral location of the pedestal relative to the reference, and a vertical adjustment assembly to adjust a tilt of the pedestal relative to the reference. The lateral adjustment assembly and the vertical adjustment assembly are external to a processing chamber and are coupled to the pedestal disposed within the processing chamber through the pedestal shaft. The reference can be a ring and the lateral adjustment assembly substantially centers the pedestal within the ring. A method of adjusting a pedestal includes leveling the pedestal, translating the pedestal, calibrating the pedestal height to a preheat ring level, and checking the level and location of the pedestal while rotating the pedestal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing system, comprising: a processing chamber; a pedestal disposed within the processing chamber; a lateral adjustment assembly coupled to the pedestal and disposed external to the processing chamber, the lateral adjustment assembly configured to change a lateral centrality of the pedestal, the lateral adjustment assembly comprising an adjustable support ring and three or more adjustment screws spaced nearly equally around an outer ring, the three or more adjustment screws each comprising a first external threaded region with a first thread pitch to mate each of the three or more adjustment screws with the outer ring and a second external threaded region with a second thread pitch different from the first thread pitch to mate each of the three or more adjustment screws with the adjustable support ring; and a vertical adjustment assembly coupled to the pedestal and disposed external to the processing chamber, the vertical adjustment assembly configured to change a tilt of the pedestal, wherein the lateral centrality of the pedestal and the tilt of the pedestal are adjusted independently. 2. The substrate processing system claim 1 further comprising a reference object coupled to the processing chamber. 3. The substrate processing system of claim 2, wherein the reference object is a ring and the lateral adjustment assembly substantially centers the pedestal within the ring. 4. The substrate processing system of claim 1, wherein the pedestal is a susceptor. 5. The substrate processing system of claim 1, further comprising a bellows to maintain a pressure difference between an inside and an outside of the processing chamber while adjusting at least one of the three or more adjustment screws. 6. The substrate processing system of claim 1, further comprising a locking mechanism. 7. The substrate processing system of claim 6, wherein the locking mechanism comprises one or more set screws. 