A machine for cartoning products incorporates a cardboard box forming section, at least one box conveyor, and one robotic loading section. The machine includes a section for closing boxes, for example by folding and gluing the respective flaps. The closing section is fed directly by the box conveyor. During the closing operation, a servo-train of the conveyor is operated with a forward motion synchronized with the work cycle of a closing device of the closing section.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A machine for cartoning products in cardboard boxes, comprising: a product infeed; a cardboard-box forming section; a translation system adapted to transport said cardboard boxes; a loading section comprising a robot adapted to load products into said boxes; a box-closing section for closing said cardboard boxes; said cardboard-box forming section, loading section, and box-closing section being arranged in a linear run; said translation system comprising a plurality of linear translation devices which are extended from the forming section to the box-closing section, so that the translation system is able to deliver empty cardboard boxes from said cardboard box forming section to said loading section, and to feed the cardboard boxes loaded with the products from said loading section to said box-closing section; said box-closing section comprising a mobile device operating with an intermittent work cycle, said mobile device being able to displace the cardboard boxes from the translation system when said cardboard boxes are positioned in a delivery station of said translation system; said translation system comprising a control system of said plurality of linear translation devices, said linear translation devices being operable by the control system with independent movement from each other, and wherein said translation devices are operable with an advance motion coordinated with said intermittent work cycle of said mobile device of the box-closing section, when feeding the cardboard boxes loaded with the products to said box-closing section. 2. A machine according to claim 1 wherein said translation system comprises a servo-train system comprising a plurality of servo-trains with independent movement, one of said plurality of servo-trains being operated by said control system with an advance motion synchronized with said one mobile device, when said servo-train is in the box-closing section. 3. A machine according to claim 1 wherein said translation system comprising a plurality of linear run devices that are separate from each other. 4. A machine according to claim 1 wherein said mobile device comprises a closing head movable along two axes, in a vertical plane. 5. A machine according to claim 4 wherein said vertical plane is either parallel or perpendicular to a direction of transport of said translation system. 6. A machine according to claim 5 wherein said closing head has an active working travel substantially contained in said vertical plane, starting from said delivery station of the translation system, wherein said working travel imparts a predefined path in the box-closing section to a cardboard box, and said box-closing section comprising at least one shaped guide for closing one or more flaps of said cardboard box, located so as to act on a cardboard box along said predefined path. 7. A machine according to claim 1 wherein said mobile device comprising a front clamp pivoting about a fulcrum, by means of at least one actuator associated to said mobile device. 8. A machine according to claim 1 wherein said box-closing section comprising at least one fixed shaped guide positioned so as to cause the folding of a portion and/or of flaps of said cardboard boxes, said at least one guide being positioned between said loading station and said delivery station of the translation system. 9. A machine according to claim 1 wherein said box-closing section comprising a plurality of units for applying glue to one flap or several flaps of said cardboard boxes. 10. A machine according to claim 1, having a modular frame, said frame comprising at least a first module which represents the load-bearing structure of the forming section; a second module which represents the load-bearing structure of the loading section; a third module which represents the load-bearing structure of the closing section. 11. A machine according to claim 1, further comprising a translation device operable with an advance motion coordinated with said intermittent work cycle of said mobile device of the box-closing section and, at the same time, another translation device is operable with an advance motion coordinated with a work cycle of said robot, thus providing that the advance of a first cardboard box or first group of cardboard boxes is coordinated with the work cycle of said robot, and at the same time the advance of a second cardboard box or second group of cardboard boxes is coordinated with the work cycle of said mobile device. 12. A machine for cartoning products in cardboard boxes, comprising: a product infeed; a cardboard-box forming section; a translation system adapted to transport said cardboard boxes; a loading section comprising a robot adapted to load products into said boxes; a box-closing section for closing said cardboard boxes; said translation system comprising a plurality of linear translation devices which are extended from the forming section to the box-closing section, so that the translation system is able to deliver empty cardboard boxes from said cardboard box forming section to said loading section, and to feed the cardboard boxes loaded with the products from said loading section to said box-closing section; said box-closing section comprising a mobile device operating with an intermittent work cycle, said mobile device being able to displace the cardboard boxes from the translation system when said cardboard boxes are positioned in a delivery station of said translation system; and said translation system comprising a control system of said plurality of linear translation devices, said linear translation devices being operable by the control system with independent movement from each other, and wherein said translation system comprises a servo-train system comprising a plurality of servo-trains with independent movement, one of said plurality of servo-trains being operated by said control system with an advance motion synchronized with said one mobile device, when said servo-train is in the box-closing section. 