A metal core circuit board assembly includes a circuit board having a through hole in an embodiment. A shaft for a pin is inserted in the through hole such that cap of the pin abuts a foil layer on the circuit board. The shaft diameter is sufficiently smaller than the through hole diameter such that the shaft is electrically isolated from a metal core for the circuit board. The cap is undercut about the through hole to further isolate the pin from the non-electrically isolated portion of the metal core circuit board.
Claims We claim: 1. A circuit board assembly, comprising: a metal core circuit board having a principal surface for mounted circuits and at least one through hole extending between the principal surface and a backside surface of the metal core circuit board; and an at least one conductive pin, wherein each conductive pin includes a shaft extending through a corresponding through hole and a pin cap abutting the principal surface adjacent the corresponding through hole such that an undercutting for the pin cap circumferentially surrounds the corresponding through hole. 2. The circuit board assembly of claim 1, wherein a non-undercut outer annulus for each pin cap is soldered to a printed foil layer for the metal core circuit board. 3. The circuit board assembly of claim 2, further comprising a light emitting diode (LED) circuit soldered to the printed foil layer. 4. The circuit board assembly of claim 3, wherein the circuit board assembly is secured within a flashlight head. 5. The circuit board assembly of claim 4, wherein the circuit board assembly is secured through a thermally-conductive glue. 6. The circuit board assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one conductive pin comprises two conductive pins and the at least one through hole comprises two through holes such that a first one of the through holes corresponds to a first one of the pins and a second remaining one of the through holes corresponds to a second remaining one of the pins. 7. The circuit board assembly of claim 6, wherein each shaft has a diameter smaller than a diameter for the corresponding through hole such that each shaft is electrically isolated from a metal core for the circuit board. 8. The circuit board assembly of claim 7, wherein each shaft diameter is at least 5 mil less than each through hole diameter. 9. The circuit board assembly of claim 8, wherein each shaft diameter is at least 20 mil less than each through hole diameter. 10. A method of manufacturing the circuit board assembly of claim 1, the method comprising: providing the metal core circuit board having the at least one through hole at least partially surrounded by solder; inserting the shaft for each conductive pin into the corresponding through hole such that the pin cap for the conductive pin abuts the solder wherein the corresponding through hole has a diameter sufficiently exceeding a diameter for the shaft such that the shaft is electrically isolated from a metal core for the metal core circuit board, and wherein the undercutting for the pin cap has an inner undercut portion surrounding the corresponding through hole and an outer remaining portion abutting the solder; and heating the solder such that it melts and electrically couples each conductive pin to a metal foil layer on the metal core circuit board to form the circuit board assembly. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising placing a circuit on a solder circuit pad on the metal core circuit board prior to the heating of the solder. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the melting of the solder electrically couples the circuit to each conductive pin. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the circuit includes a light emitting diode (LED). 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising securing the circuit board assembly to a flashlight bezel. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the securing comprises gluing the circuit board assembly to a backing plate on the bezel with a thermally-conductive glue. 16. A flashlight comprising the circuit board assembly of claim 1, the flashlight further comprising: a flashlight head including a lens held by a bezel, wherein the metal core circuit board is secured to the bezel and includes a light emitting diode (LED) for illumination through the lens; and a battery housing for holding batteries for powering the LED through a conductive path that includes a first one of the conductive pins having its shaft extending through a first one of the through holes in the metal core circuit board, wherein the pin cap of the first conductive pin abuts the principal surface of the metal core circuit board adjacent the first through hole such that the undercutting for the pin cap circumferentially surrounds the first through hole. 17. The flashlight of claim 16, wherein the conductive path further includes a second one of the conductive pins having its shaft extending through a second one of the through holes in the metal core circuit board, wherein the pin cap of the second conductive pin abuts the principal surface of the metal core circuit board adjacent the second through hole such that the undercutting for the pin cap of the second conductive pin circumferentially surrounds the second through hole. 18. The flashlight of claim 17, wherein each pin cap includes a non-undercut outer annulus soldered to a printed foil layer for the metal core circuit board. 19. The flashlight of claim 17, wherein each shaft has a diameter smaller than a diameter for the corresponding through hole such that each shaft is electrically isolated from a metal core for the metal core circuit board. 20. The flashlight of claim 19, wherein the conductive path further includes a switch. 