There is described apparatus and methods for transporting and processing substrates including wafers as to efficiently produce at reasonable costs improved throughput as compared to systems in use today. A linear transport chamber includes linear tracks and robot arms riding on the linear tracks to linearly transfer substrates along the sides of processing chambers for feeding substrates into a controlled atmosphere through a load lock and then along a transport chamber as a way of reaching processing chambers. A four-axis robot arm is disclosed, capable of linear translation, rotation and articulation, and z-motion.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An articulated arm robot system, comprising: a base configured for freely riding on a linear track; a linear motor imparting linear motion to the base; a first arm section coupled to the base; a second arm section rotatably coupled to the first arm section; a third arm section rotatably coupled to the second arm section; a first magnetically-coupled follower assembly configured to magnetically follow rotation of a first motor to thereby rotate the second arm section; and a second magnetically-coupled follower assembly configured to magnetically follow rotation of a second motor to thereby rotate the third arm section; wherein one or more of a magnetic coupling between the first magnetically-coupled follower assembly and the first motor and a magnetic coupling between the second magnetically-coupled follower assembly and the second motor couples the base to the linear motor and effects linear motion of the base along the linear track. 2. The articulated arm robot system in accordance with claim 1, further comprising: a first pulley coupled to the first magnetically-coupled follower assembly; a second pulley coupled to the second arm section; and, a flexible endless band transferring rotational motion from the first pulley to the second pulley to thereby rotate the second arm section. 3. The articulated arm robot system in accordance with claim 2, wherein the second pulley is of larger diameter than the first pulley. 4. The articulated arm robot system in accordance with claim 2, further comprising: a third pulley coupled to the second magnetically-coupled follower assembly; a fourth pulley driven by an endless band from the third pulley; a fifth pulley linked to the fourth pulley; a sixth pulley coupled to the third arm section; and a flexible endless band transferring rotational motion from the fifth pulley to the sixth pulley to thereby rotate the third arm section. 5. The articulated arm robot system in accordance with claim 4, wherein the sixth pulley is of larger diameter than the fifth pulley. 6. The articulated arm robot system in accordance with claim 1, further comprising: a third magnetically-coupled follower assembly configured to magnetically follow rotation of a third motor; a lead screw coupled to the third magnetically-coupled follower assembly and rotating therewith to thereby change elevation of the first arm section. 7. The articulated arm robot system in accordance with claim 6, further comprising: a first pulley coupled to the first magnetically-coupled follower assembly via a first spline shaft; and, a second pulley coupled to the second magnetically-coupled follower assembly via a second spline shaft. 8. The articulated arm robot system in accordance with claim 7, further comprising: a third pulley and a fourth pulley mounted on nested shafts; a first drive belt transferring rotation from the first pulley to the third pulley to thereby rotate the second arm section; and, a second drive belt transferring rotation from the second pulley to the fourth pulley to thereby rotate the third arm section. 9. The articulated arm robot system in accordance with claim 8, wherein the third pulley is of larger diameter than the first pulley. 