A mobile communications device comprising a location sensing system, producing a location output; a memory, storing a set of locations and associated events; a telecommunications device, communicating event and location information between a remote system and said memory; and a processor, processing said location output in conjunction with said stored locations and associated events in said memory, to determine a priority thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver comprising a mobile transceiver which is configured to interact with an on-line database and for receiving at least information relevant to the determined location; and a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information. 2. The location-aware system according to claim 1, wherein the system is configured for attachment to a vehicle. 3. The location-aware system according to claim 1, wherein the receiver comprises a satellite receiver configured to receive a signal from at least one satellite. 4. The location-aware system according to claim 3, wherein the sensor comprises a satellite receiver configured to receive a signal from a plurality of satellites. 5. The location-aware system according to claim 1, wherein the receiver comprises a digital cellular communications transceiver. 6. The location-aware system according to claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a digital cellular communications device. 7. The location-aware system according to claim 1, wherein the receiver comprises a transceiver further configured to communicate with a respective transceiver of a compatible location-aware system. 8. The location-aware system according to claim 7, wherein the location-aware system and compatible location-aware system each are configured to exchange location information, and information relevant to the determined location of the received location information, with each other. 9. The location-aware system according to claim 1, further comprising: a transceiver configured to communicate at least information relevant to the determined location directly with at least one mobile transceiver. 10. The location-aware system according to claim 1, wherein the receiver is configured to communicate with the on-line database through a repeater network. 11. The location-aware system according to claim 10, wherein the receiver comprises a transceiver configured to communicate through the repeater network, wherein at least one repeater of the repeater network comprises a mobile transceiver. 12. The location-aware system according to claim 9, wherein the transceiver is further configured to communicate with at least one stationary transceiver. 13. The location-aware system according to claim 1, further comprising a navigation system. 14. The location-aware system according to claim 13, wherein the navigation system is configured to output traffic information. 15. The location-aware system according to claim 1, further comprising a traffic condition sensor. 16. The location-aware system according to claim 1, further comprising an environmental condition sensor. 17. The location-aware system according to claim 1, further comprising a transmitter adapted to transmit at least one of traffic information and environmental condition information. 18. The location-aware system according to claim 1, wherein the receiver is configured to receive at least one of traffic information and environmental condition information. 19. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; and a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information, wherein the plurality of types of information comprise at least dynamic traffic information and static navigational information. 20. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; and a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information, wherein the receiver comprises a transceiver which is configured to communicate at least one of vetronics information, the location, an itinerary, emergency information, distress information, vehicle maintenance information, and diagnostic information. 21. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; and a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information, wherein the receiver comprises a transceiver which is configured to communicate through a Dedicated Short Range Communication system. 22. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; and a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information, wherein the receiver is configured to communicate with an intelligent transportation system. 23. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; and a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information, wherein the receiver comprises a transceiver configured to conduct bidirectional secure encrypted spread spectrum communications. 24. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; and a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information, wherein the receiver comprises a transceiver configured to communicate cryptographically authenticated communications. 25. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; and a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information, wherein the receiver comprises a mobile wireless transceiver which is configured to communicate information through the Internet. 26. The location-aware system according to claim 25, wherein the plurality of types of information comprise at least dynamic traffic information and static navigational information. 27. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to determine at least information relevant to the determined location; a mobile videoconferencing system configured to transmit image and audio data from a camera and to receive image and audio data from a remote location; and a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information and the received image and audio information, wherein the receiver is configured to receive advertisements for presentation to a user through the user interface. 28. The location-aware system according to claim 27, wherein the receiver is configured to receive at least one advertisement for presentation to a user through the user interface, in dependence on the determined location. 29. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; and a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information, wherein the at least one of: receiver is configured to communicate video information and the user interface is configured to present video information. 30. The location-aware system according to claim 29, wherein the user interface is configured to present video information. 31. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to present a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to present at least information relevant to the determined location; and a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information, wherein the user interface comprises a speech interface. 32. The location-aware system according to claim 31, wherein the user interface is configured to perform speech recognition. 33. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; and a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information, wherein at least one type of information comprises location-referenced information, further comprising a database configured to retrieve location-referenced information comprising a dynamic map overlay. 34. The location-aware system according to claim 25, wherein the user interface comprises a speech interface. 35. The location-aware system according to claim 33, wherein the location-referenced information comprises a set of landmarks. 36. The location-aware system according to claim 33, wherein the receiver is configured to receive location-referenced information which is communicated through the Internet. 37. The location-aware system according to claim 1, wherein the user interface comprises a touchscreen. 38. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and an alphanumeric information input configured to receive a message for transmission from the location-aware system through a transmitter. 39. The location-aware system according to claim 1, wherein the user interface comprises a graphic screen display. 40. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and a subsystem configured to implement a copy protection scheme. 41. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and an integrated processor configured to control the sensor and the receiver. 42. A location-aware system, comprising: a sensor configured to determine a location of the location-aware system; a receiver configured to receive at least information relevant to the determined location; a user interface configured to present a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and an input port configured to receive an image signal. 43. The location-aware system according to claim 42, further comprising a camera. 44. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; interacting with a remote on-line database; receiving at least information relevant to the determined location; and presenting to a user a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information. 45. The method according to claim 44, wherein said determining comprises receiving a signal from at least one satellite. 46. The method according to claim 44, wherein the information is received through a cellular communications device. 47. The method according to claim 44, further comprising communicating with a respective transceiver of a compatible location-aware system. 48. The method according to claim 47, further comprising exchanging location information, and information relevant to the determined location of the received location information, with another system. 49. The location-aware method according to claim 44, further comprising: communicating directly with at least one mobile transceiver. 50. The location-aware method according to claim 44, further comprising: communicating through a repeater network. 51. The method according to claim 50, wherein at least one repeater of the repeater network comprises a mobile transceiver. 52. The method according to claim 49, further comprising communicating with at least one stationary transceiver. 53. The method according to claim 44, further comprising providing navigation information to a user from a navigation system. 54. The method according to claim 44, further comprising outputting traffic information. 55. The method according to claim 44, further comprising sensing a traffic condition. 56. The method according to claim 44, further comprising sensing an environmental condition. 57. The method according to claim 44, further comprising transmitting at least one of traffic information and environmental condition information. 58. The method according to claim 44, further comprising receiving at least one of traffic information and environmental condition information. 59. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; receiving at least information relevant to the determined location; and presenting to a user a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; wherein a first type of information comprises dynamic traffic information and a second type of information comprises static navigational information. 60. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; receiving at least information relevant to the determined location; presenting to a user a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and remotely communicating at least one of vetronics information, the location of the wireless receiver, an itinerary, emergency information, distress information, vehicle maintenance information, and diagnostic information. 61. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; receiving at least information relevant to the determined location; presenting to a user a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and communicating through a Dedicated Short Range Communication system. 62. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; receiving at least information relevant to the determined location; presenting to a user a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and communicating with an intelligent transportation system. 63. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; receiving at least information relevant to the determined location; presenting to a user a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and conducting at least one of secure encrypted communications and cryptographically authenticated communications. 64. The method according to claim 43, wherein the communications comprise cryptographically authenticated communications. 65. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; receiving at least information relevant to the determined location; presenting to a user a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and communicating with the Internet. 66. The method according to claim 65, further comprising interacting with a remote on-line database through the Internet. 67. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; receiving at least a plurality of types of information relevant to an itinerary, comprising at least advertisements; and presenting to a user a plurality of types of information comprising at least the advertisements, prioritized based at least on the determined location, the itinerary, and a type of information. 68. The method according to claim 67, further comprising adaptively predicting the itinerary. 69. The method according to claim 68, wherein the at least one advertisement for presentation to a user is received in dependence on the determined location. 70. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; receiving at least information relevant to the determined location; presenting to a user a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and at least one of communicating video information and presenting video information. 71. The method according to claim 70, further comprising presenting video information. 72. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; receiving at least information relevant to the determined location; presenting to a user a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and communicating with a user through a speech interface. 73. The method according to claim 72, further comprising performing speech recognition. 74. The method according to claim 44, further comprising retrieving location-referenced information from the on-line database. 75. The method according to claim 74, wherein the location-referenced information comprises a map. 76. The method according to claim 74, wherein the location-referenced information comprises a set of landmarks. 77. The method according to claim 74, wherein the location-referenced information comprises a dynamic information map overlay. 78. The method according to claim 44, further comprising the step of providing a touchscreen user interface. 79. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; receiving at least information relevant to the determined location; presenting to a user a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and receiving an alphanumeric message for transmission from the wireless mobile receiver. 80. The method according to claim 44, further comprising providing a graphic screen display user interface. 81. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; receiving at least information relevant to the determined location; presenting to a user a plurality of types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a type of information; and implementing a copy protection scheme. 82. The method according to claim 44, further comprising receiving data from a satellite. 83. The method according to claim 44, further comprising receiving an image signal. 84. The method according to claim 44, further comprising providing a camera which generates electronic image information. 85. The location-aware system according to claim 1, wherein: the sensor comprises a GPS location sensor configured to determine a geolocation, further comprising: a map database; a transmitter coupled with the GPS location sensor configured to wirelessly transmit information corresponding to the determined geolocation; and wherein the user interface is configured to present data corresponding to the determined geolocation, the map database, and the received information. 86. The location-aware system according to claim 85, wherein the transmitter and receiver comprise a cellular transceiver. 87. The location-aware method according to claim 44, wherein said determining comprises determining a geolocation with a satellite receiver system; further comprising: wirelessly transmitting information corresponding to the determined geolocation; wirelessly receiving at least the information relevant to the determined geolocation; and said presenting comprising presenting data corresponding to the determined geolocation, information retrieved from a map database, and the received information to a user. 88. A location-aware method, comprising: determining a location of a mobile wireless receiver; receiving at least information relevant to the determined location, comprising environmental data for a set of locations at specified times; determining spatial-temporal characteristics of the environmental data; presenting to a user a plurality of environmental data based on the determined location, determined spatial-temporal characteristics, and a time. 89. The method according to claim 88, further comprising predicting an importance to a user of the environmental data. 90. The method according to claim 88, wherein the alert comprises a hazard alert. 91. The method according to claim 88, wherein the environmental data comprises weather data. 92. The method according to claim 88, wherein the environmental data comprises traffic data. 93. The method according to claim 88, wherein the environmental data comprises impending collision data. 94. A navigational method, comprising: defining a proposed route with respect to a map database for a mobile system; receiving through a wireless receiver in the mobile system, information communicated through the Internet relating to at least one of: traffic conditions, road conditions, places of interest, itinerary stops, or fixed locations; determining a position of the mobile system; processing the received information in conjunction with the proposed route and determined position to determine a relevance thereof; and presenting to the user a relevance filtered subset of the received information. 95. A location-aware system, comprising: a navigation subsystem comprising a system configured to determine a location, and a map database; an input configured to receive at least an itinerary comprising at least one destination location; a wireless data communication subsystem configured to communicate information through the Internet and to at least receive at least navigation information relevant to the determined location; and a user interface device configured to present navigation information to a human user based on at least the determined location, the map database, and the itinerary, and to present the received relevant navigation information communicated through the wireless data communication system. 96. A location-aware system, comprising: a vehicle position determining system; a memory configured to store an itinerary for the vehicle; a wireless data communication system configured to communicate externally to the vehicle through the Internet; a display; and a controller configured to receive and process information from the vehicle position determining system and the stored itinerary to determine a relationship therebetween, and to control the display to present at least information received through the wireless data communication system relevant to the location and itinerary. 97. A location-aware system, comprising: a vehicle position determining system; a memory configured to store an itinerary for the vehicle; a wireless data communication system configured to communicate externally to the vehicle; a display; and a controller, configured to: receive and process information from the vehicle position determining system and the stored itinerary to determine a relationship therebetween, and control the display to present at least information received through the wireless data communication system relevant to the location and itinerary, and control the display to present commercial subsidized location relevant information. 98. A location-aware system, comprising: a vehicle position determining system; a memory configured to store an itinerary for the vehicle; a wireless data communication system configured to communicate externally to the vehicle; a display; and a controller configured to receive and process information from the vehicle position determining system and the stored itinerary to determine a relationship therebetween, and to control the display to present at least information received through the wireless data communication system relevant to the location and itinerary; and a user input port configured to permit a user to interact with a service through the wireless data communication system. 99. The location-aware system according to claim 98 wherein the user input port is further configured to permit a user to negotiate a commercial transaction with a service through the wireless data communication system. 100. A location-aware system, comprising: a vehicle position determining system; a memory configured to store an itinerary for the vehicle; a wireless data communication system configured to communicate externally to the vehicle; a display; and a controller, said controller being configured to: receive and process information from the vehicle position determining system and the stored itinerary to determine a relationship therebetween, and control the display to present at least information received through the wireless data communication system relevant to the location and itinerary, and communicate at least one of the vehicle position, the itinerary, emergency information, distress information, vehicle maintenance information, diagnostic information, vetronics information, and theft detection information from a theft detector through the wireless data communication system. 101. The location-aware system according to claim 100, further comprising a commercial transaction system configured to communicate with the location-aware vehicular system through the wireless data communication system, the commercial transaction system being configured to operate in dependence on a communicated location of the vehicle. 102. The location-aware system according to claim 101, wherein the commercial transaction system is configured to operate in dependence on both the communicated location of the vehicle and a communicated itinerary of the vehicle. 103. The location-aware system according to claim 100, wherein the controller is configured to automatically communicate emergency or distress information through the wireless data communication system. 104. The location-aware system according to claim 100, further comprising a theft detector, wherein the controller is configured to transmit theft detection information. 105. The location-aware system according to claim 100, wherein the controller is configured to communicate vehicle maintenance or diagnostic information through the wireless data communication system. 106. A method comprising: determining a location of a sensor; storing a set of events, an associated location for an event, and a chronological parameter associated with an event; communicating event information with a remote system; and processing the determined location in conjunction with the stored set of events, to determine a priority thereof, and outputting a subset of the set of events in order of the determined priority. 107. The method according to claim 106, wherein the location is determined with a GPS receiver. 108. The method according to claim 106, wherein said communicating is conducted over a cellular communications network. 109. The method according to claim 106, wherein the chronological parameter is selected from the group consisting of time of detection of an event, a time of expiration of an event, a time of logging of an event to memory, periodic variations in an event, statistical mean time of expected recurrence of an event, and a time for presentation of event related information to a user. 110. The method according to claim 106, wherein said communicating comprises receiving event information from a remote system. 111. The method according to claim 106, wherein said communicating comprises transmitting event and location information to a remote system. 112. The method according to claim 106, wherein said communicating comprises transmitting and receiving event information to and from a remote system. 113. The method according to claim 106, wherein said communicating comprises wirelessly communicating through an unlicensed frequency band. 114. The method according to claim 106, wherein said processing prioritizes based on a proximity of a stored location to a sensed location. 115. The method according to claim 106, wherein said processing prioritizes based on a prospective conjunction of a sensed location with a stored location. 116. The method according to claim 106, wherein said processing prioritizes based on a type of event. 117. The method according to claim 106, wherein said processing prioritizes based on a spatial-temporal proximity of a stored location to loci defined by an itinerary. 118. The method according to claim 106, further comprising detecting an event. 119. The method according to claim 118, wherein said detecting selectively detects an electromagnetic emission. 120. The method according to claim 118, wherein the event is selected from one or more of the group selected from road conditions, road hazards, traffic conditions and weather conditions. 121. The method according to claim 118, further comprising detecting a potential source of interference in detection of the event. 122. The method according to claim 106, wherein the event comprises information relating to a commercial establishment. 123. The method according to claim 106, further comprising storing information defining an origin of information relating to an event. 124. The method according to claim 106, wherein said communicating is adaptive to one or more parameters selected from the group consisting of transmit power, data rate, data packet format, error detection scheme, error correction scheme, bandwidth allocation, modulation scheme, and encoding scheme. 125. The method according to claim 106, wherein said communicating communicates at least one signal encrypted using a public key-private key cipher. 126. The method according to claim 106, further comprising selectively responding to an authorization code, wherein said authorization code controls an availability of at least one of said communicating step and said processing step. 127. The method according to claim 106, wherein said communicating comprises first establishing communications with a remote system through a common control channel, and then employing a private channel for further communications. 128. A mobile navigation system comprising: a satellite receiver system configured to determine a geolocation; a map database; a receiver configured to wirelessly receive at least information relating to the determined geolocation from the Internet; and a user interface configured to present data corresponding to the determined geolocation, the map database, and the received information to a user. 129. The mobile navigation system according to claim 128, further comprising a transmitter configured to wirelessly transmit at least information corresponding to the determined geolocation, wherein the transmitter and receiver together comprise a cellular radio transceiver, and wherein the satellite receiver system is configured to be assisted by the cellular radio transceiver in determining the geolocation. 130. The mobile navigation system according to claim 129, wherein the user interface comprises a touchscreen. 131. The location-aware system according to claim 20, wherein the transceiver which is configured to communicate at least vetronics information. 132. The location-aware system according to claim 20, wherein the transceiver which is configured to communicate at least the location or an itinerary. 133. The location-aware system according to claim 20, wherein the transceiver which is configured to communicate at least emergency information or distress information. 134. The location-aware system according to claim 20, wherein the transceiver which is configured to communicate at least vehicle maintenance information or diagnostic information. 135. The location-aware system according to claim 21, wherein the receiver is configured to communicate with an intelligent transportation system. 136. The location-aware system according to claim 29, wherein the receiver is configured to communicate video information. 137. The location-aware method according to claim 60, wherein said remotely communication comprises communicating at least vetronics information. 138. The location-aware method according to claim 60, wherein said remotely communication comprises communicating at least the location or an itinerary. 139. The location-aware method according to claim 60, wherein said remotely communication comprises communicating at least emergency information or distress information. 140. The location-aware method according to claim 60, wherein said remotely communication comprises communicating at least vehicle maintenance information or diagnostic information. 141. The method according to claim 63, wherein the communications comprise secure encrypted communications. 142. The method according to claim 70, further comprising communicating video information. 143. The location-aware system according to claim 100, wherein the controller is configured to automatically communicate at least one of the vehicle position and itinerary through the wireless data communication system. 144. The location-aware system according to claim 100, wherein the controller is configured to automatically communicate at least one of emergency information, distress information, through the wireless data communication system. 145. The location-aware system according to claim 100, wherein the controller is configured to automatically communicate at least one of vehicle maintenance information, diagnostic information through the wireless data communication system. 146. The location-aware system according to claim 100, wherein the controller is configured to automatically communicate at least vetronics information through the wireless data communication system. 147. The location-aware system according to claim 27, wherein the user interface is configured to present advertisements to a user. 148. A location-aware mobile system, comprising: a geolocation subsystem configured to determine a location of the mobile system; a transceiver, configured to bidirectionally communicate dynamically changing information about the determined location; and a navigation system configured to display at least a map of the location, and a plurality of different types of information received through the transceiver dynamically overlayed on the map, dependent on at least the determined location and a respective type of information. 149. A location-aware mobile system, comprising: a geolocation subsystem configured to determine a location of the mobile system; a transceiver, configured to transmit dynamically changing information in dependence on the determined location and to receive a plurality of different types of information dependent on the determined location; and a user interface configured to present the plurality of different types of information prioritized based at least on the determined location and a respective type of information. 150. A communication device, comprising: a geolocation subsystem configured to determine a location of the communication device over time; a digital cellular transceiver, configured to transmit the determined location of the communication device over time to an on-line database, and to receive roadway traffic information derived from other communication devices from the on-line database; and a navigation system configured to display at least a map, and traffic information received through the transceiver dynamically overlayed on the map. 151. A mobile navigation system comprising: a processor executing applications under an operating system; a satellite receiver system configured to determine a geolocation of the mobile navigation system; a transmitter configured to transmit a determined geolocation; a receiver configured to wirelessly receive at least information relating to the determined geolocation from a remote database through the Internet; and a user interface, generated by the processor, configured to present data corresponding to determined geolocation and the received information to a user on a map. 152. A mobile computing device comprising: a global positioning system (GPS) component configured to determine a location; a camera component configured to capture an image; a processor configured to associate the location determined by the GPS component with the captured image; a memory component configured to store the captured image and the location; a touchscreen display configured to receive a first user input to send the stored captured image and the location to an Internet database; a cellular packet data component configured, in response to the received first user input, to provide the stored captured image and the location to the Internet database having stored captured images from a plurality of mobile computing devices; wherein the touchscreen display is further configured to receive a second user input to retrieve a second captured image that the user is authorized to receive from the Internet database; and wherein the cellular packet data component is further configured in response to the second user input to retrieve the second captured image from the Internet database. 153. The mobile computing device of claim 152, further comprising the processor configured to request a central database to deactivate user access to event information by another mobile computing device. 154. The mobile computing device of claim 152, further comprising the mobile computing device configured to communicate with a subscription based central database to access event information of the plurality of mobile computing devices. 155. A method for communication by a mobile computing device, the method comprising: determining a location by a global positioning system (GPS) component of the mobile computing device; capturing an image by a camera component of the mobile computing device; associating a determined location by the GPS component with the captured image by a processor of the mobile computing device; storing by a memory component the captured image and the associated determined location in the mobile computing device; receiving by a touchscreen display of the mobile computing device a first user input to send the stored captured image and the associated determined location to an Internet database; providing by a cellular packet data component of the mobile computing device, in response to the received first user input, the stored captured image and the associated determined location to the Internet database having stored captured images from a plurality of mobile computing devices; receiving by the touchscreen display a second user input to retrieve a second captured image that the user is authorized to receive from the Internet database; and retrieving by the cellular packet data component, in response to the second user input, the second captured image from the Internet database. 156. The method of claim 155, further comprising requesting, by the processor, a central database to deactivate user access to event information by another mobile computing device. 157. The method of claim 155, further comprising the mobile computing device communicating with a subscription based central database for accessing event information of the plurality of mobile computing devices. 158. A mobile computing device comprising: means for determining a location; means for capturing an image; means for associating the determined location with the captured image; means for storing the captured image and the associated determined location; means for receiving a first user input to send the stored captured image and the associated determined location to an Internet database and for receiving a second user input to retrieve a second captured image that the user is authorized to receive from the Internet database; means for providing, in response to the received first user input, the stored captured image and the associated determined location to the Internet database having stored captured images from a plurality of mobile computing devices; and means for retrieving, in response to the second user input, the second captured image from the Internet database. 159. The mobile computing device of claim 158, further comprising means for requesting a central database to deactivate user access to event information by another mobile computing device. 160. The mobile computing device of claim 158, further comprising means for communicating with a subscription based central database to access event information of the plurality of mobile computing devices. 