The present invention provides methods and systems for discretized, combinatorial processing of regions of a substrate such as for the discovery, implementation, optimization, and qualification of new materials, processes, and process sequence integration schemes used in integrated circuit fabrication. A substrate having an array of differentially processed regions thereon is processed by delivering materials to or modifying regions of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for combinatorial processing, the method comprising: receiving a substrate used for the manufacture of data storage devices, wherein the substrate comprises a plurality of site-isolated regions; applying a wet process to the plurality of site-isolated regions, wherein the wet process applied to the site-isolated regions is varied between the site-isolated regions, wherein each site isolated region of the plurality of site isolated regions is isolated from an external environment during the wet process by a processing cell having a sealed upper surface, and wherein a bottom surface of the processing cell seals against a surface of the substrate; depositing a first film by a vacuum based deposition process on a first site-isolated region, wherein the vacuum based deposition process is performed using a barrier comprising a gas flow to process regions in a site-isolated fashion; depositing a second film by the vacuum based deposition process on a second site-isolated region, wherein the first film and the second film are varied from one another. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the wet process to the plurality of site-isolated regions comprises an etching process. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the wet process to the plurality of site-isolated regions comprises a removal process. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the wet process to the plurality of site-isolated regions comprises a cleaning process. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the wet process to the plurality of site-isolated regions comprises a surface modification process. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the wet process to the plurality of site-isolated regions comprises varying the processing from one site-isolated region to another using a parallel processing wet combinatorial tool. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first film and the second film are varied from one another by varying materials deposited. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the wet process to the plurality of site-isolated regions prepares an exposed surface of the substrate for subsequent processing. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the vacuum based deposition comprises atomic layer deposition. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising screening the plurality site-isolated regions using an optical screening technique. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the optical screening technique comprises a technique selected from the group consisting of: atomic force microscopy, diffraction, X-ray reflectivity and X-ray diffraction. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the vacuum based deposition comprises using an inert gas to effectively screen out any effects of gaseous reagents from other regions. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the vacuum based deposition comprises a plasma-based process. 14. A method of combinatorial processing, comprising: receiving a substrate for a manufacture of data storage devices, wherein the substrate comprises a plurality of site-isolated regions; applying a wet process to the plurality of site-isolated regions, wherein the wet process applied to the site-isolated regions is varied between the site-isolated regions, wherein each site isolated region of the plurality of site isolated regions is isolated from an external environment during the wet process by a processing cell having a sealed upper surface, and wherein a bottom surface of the processing cell seals against a surface of the substrate; and depositing a plurality of varied site-isolated films on the substrate using a vacuum based gas-phase deposition process, wherein the gas-phase deposition process is performed using a barrier comprising a gas flow to process regions in a site-isolated fashion. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the depositing is performed without a physical barrier in contact with the substrate. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the gas-phase deposition process comprises physical vapor deposition. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the gas-phase deposition process comprises atomic layer deposition. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the gas-phase deposition comprises a serial deposition of the varied site-isolated films. 