A system for illuminating an object is provided, the system comprising a coherent or semi-coherent light source and a first diffuser positioned relative to the coherent or semi-coherent light source so as to receive said coherent or semi-coherent light. The first diffuser may diffuse the light to produce diffused light. An actuator having a moveable element, such as a moveable reflective surface, may be positioned to project the diffused light onto an object, and may be moved to project light onto different portions of the object. This movement may be performed with such rapidity that it is not perceived by a person viewing the object. Rather, the entire object would appear to be illuminated. Movement of the element may be controlled by a computer, and may be performed according to a predefined routine.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for illuminating an object, comprising: a light source of coherent or semi-coherent light; a first diffuser positioned relative to the light source so as to receive said coherent or semi-coherent light, said diffuser diffusing the coherent or semi-coherent light to produce diffused light; and an actuator having a moveable element positioned to project the diffused light onto an object, wherein at least one of the coherent light source, the first diffuser, and the actuator are sized to fit within the object. 2. The system for illuminating according to claim 1, wherein the moveable element is a reflective surface. 3. The system for illuminating according to claim 1, further comprising a computer, wherein the computer is programmed to control movement of the moveable element. 4. The system for illuminating according to claim 1, wherein the moveable element moves according to a predefined routine. 5. The system for illuminating according to claim 1, wherein the object is a reflective panel, which further reflects light onto a display surface. 6. The system for illuminating according to claim 1, wherein the object includes a concave edge. 7. The system for illuminating according to claim 1, wherein the object includes a reflective coating. 8. A system for illuminating an object, comprising: a light source of coherent or semi-coherent light; a first diffuser positioned relative to the light source so as to receive said coherent or semi-coherent light, said diffuser diffusing the coherent or semi-coherent light to produce diffused light; and an actuator having a moveable element positioned to project the diffused light onto an object, wherein the object includes a reflective coating, wherein the object includes a display surface and a plurality of edge surfaces, and at least one of the edge surfaces includes the reflective coating. 9. A system for illuminating an object, comprising: a light source of coherent or semi-coherent light; a first diffuser positioned relative to the light source so as to receive said coherent or semi-coherent light, said diffuser diffusing the coherent or semi-coherent light to produce diffused light; and an actuator having a moveable element positioned to project the diffused light onto an object, wherein the actuator is at least partially positioned within the object. 10. The system for illuminating according to claim 9, wherein the moveable element is positioned within the object. 11. The system for illuminating according to claim 1, further comprising a second diffuser capable of moving relative to the first diffuser. 12. A method for illuminating an object, comprising: emitting coherent or semi-coherent light; diffusing the coherent or semi-coherent light to produce diffused light; projecting the diffused light onto the object; and scanning the diffused light in a predetermined pattern on the object. 13. The method for illuminating according to claim 12, further comprising forming an image from the scanning of the diffused light. 14. The method for illuminating according to claim 12, further comprising modifying at least one of color, brightness, or scanning pattern of the diffused light in response to a predetermined condition. 15. The method for illuminating according to claim 12, further comprising reflecting the diffused light off the object and onto a display surface. 16. A system for illuminating an object, comprising: a sensor for detecting a condition; an illumination device communicatively coupled to the sensor, the illumination device comprising: a light source of coherent or semi-coherent light; a first diffuser positioned relative to the light source so as to receive said coherent or semi-coherent light, said diffuser diffusing the coherent or semi-coherent light to produce diffused light; and an actuator having a moveable element positioned to project the diffused light onto an object; wherein the illumination device is activated in response to detection of a condition by the sensor. 17. The system for illuminating an object according to claim 16, further comprising a processor, wherein the processor is communicatively coupled between the sensor and the illumination device. 18. The system for illuminating an object according to claim 17, wherein the processor is programmed to determine whether the illumination device requires maintenance. 19. The system for illuminating an object according to claim 16, wherein the condition detected by the sensor relates to at least one of light, sound, pressure, movement, seismic waves, and color. 20. The system for illuminating an object according to claim 16, wherein the condition detected by the sensor is the presence of a motor vehicle, and the illumination device illuminates a road sign. 