An apparatus for weaponizing a mobile robotic platform with a mechanically triggered weapon and a firing circuit provides a weaponized mobile robotic platform, in which the mechanically triggered weapon can be fired in a safe, secure, and controlled manner in response to a single electrical pulse from the firing circuit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for firing a weapon mounted on a robotic platform, comprising: receiving a control code sent by an operator control unit to the robotic platform; validating the control code; arming a firing circuit when the control code is valid; transmitting a signal to a sequencing circuit configured to control a mechanical control assembly connected to the weapon; and operating the mechanical control assembly with the sequencing circuit to arm a disarmed weapon, wait until a delay period has elapsed, trigger the weapon, and disarm the weapon, wherein validating the control codes include determining whether the control codes were encoded with a key programmed by the robotic platform. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein disarming the weapon includes removing a force from a spring included in the mechanical control assembly, and permitting a trigger disposed on the weapon to return to a start position. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein disarming the weapon further includes: removing a force from another spring included in the mechanical control assembly; and permitting a safety latch disposed on the weapon to return to a safe position. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein waiting until the delay period has elapsed comprises implementing a time lag after which the weapon is triggered. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the duration of the time lag is selected by an operator of the robotic platform. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising selecting the time lag by actuating a time delay selector. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the time lag is defined by a delay circuit of the sequencing circuit. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein the time lag represents a delay that can occur between a time a signal is sent to arm the weapon and a time when a safety of the mechanical control assembly is completely disengaged to arm the weapon. 9. The method of claim 4, wherein the time lag represents a delay that can occur between a time a signal is sent to arm the weapon and a time when a trigger of the weapon is operable to actuate and fire the weapon. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein waiting until the delay period has elapsed ensures that a safety control assembly of the weapon has disengaged before the weapon is triggered. 11. A method for firing a weapon mounted on a robotic platform, comprising: transmitting a signal to a sequencing circuit configured to control a mechanical control assembly connected to the weapon; and operating the mechanical control assembly with the sequencing circuit to arm the weapon; wait until a time delay period has elapsed, the time delay period representing a delay that can occur between a time a signal is sent to arm the weapon and a time when a trigger of the weapon is operable to actuate and fire the weapon; and trigger the weapon; and validating control codes before transmitting the signal to the sequencing circuit, wherein validating the control codes includes determining whether the control codes were encoded with a key programmed by the robotic platform. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising disarming the weapon after triggering the weapon, wherein disarming the weapon includes removing a force from a spring included in the mechanical control assembly to permit a trigger disposed on the weapon to return to a start position. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein waiting until the time delay period has elapsed comprises implementing a time lag after which the weapon is triggered. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the duration of the time lag is selected by an operator of the robotic platform. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising selecting the time lag by actuating a time delay selector. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the time lag is defined by a delay circuit of the sequencing circuit. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the time lag represents a delay that can occur between a time a signal is sent to arm the weapon and a time when a trigger of the weapon is operable to actuate and fire the weapon. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein waiting until the time delay period has elapsed ensures that a safety control assembly of the weapon has disengaged before the weapon is triggered. 