An intelligent modular rotary multi-sensor sensor ring platform for such uses as in mobile robotics allows a few sensors to scan the local area and environment, provides a cost saving, volume and a power savings as well as reducing calibration and maintenance costs. The sensor ring platform has a large internal diameter allowing a maximum area for the chassis structural elements as well as other equipment located in the chassis. Local sensor signal processing is combined with time, rotation speed and position data stamps to allow processed data to be used locally as well as to be transferred to other systems or subsystems or for data logging purposes.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A sensor ring platform mountable onto a robot having a frame, the sensor ring comprising: a ring-shaped platform provided around the frame of the robot; a drive system usable to rotate the platform around the frame; and logic control circuitry, wherein: the sensor ring platform includes at least two sensor types; and the logic control circuitry controls at least one of at least one sensor and the drive system in response to output signals from at least one sensor. 2. The sensor ring platform of claim 1, wherein the logic control circuitry comprises at least one of at least one embedded computer and at least one logic processor and at least one energy management system. 3. The sensor ring platform of claim 1, wherein the ring-shaped platform comprises a plurality of sections coupled with each other, at least two of the sections being hingedly coupled to each other and at least two of the sections being from each other, and at least one section further comprising a slip ring electrical connection usable to transmit electrical signals between the sensor ring platform and the frame of the robot while the sensor ring platform is rotating. 4. The sensor ring platform of claim 1, wherein the drive system comprises a motor associated with the platform and a gear on the robot. 5. The sensor ring platform of claim 4, wherein the motor associated with the platform is mounted in the platform. 6. The sensor ring platform of claim 4, wherein the motor associated with the platform is mounted on the platform. 7. The sensor ring platform of claim 1, wherein the logic control device is capable of receiving signals from at least one of the at least two sensors and altering the drive system rotation in response to the received sensor signals. 8. The sensor ring platform of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor comprises at least one sensor mounted in the platform. 9. The sensor ring platform of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor comprises at least one sensor mounted on the platform. 10. A robot, comprising: a frame; a ring-shaped sensor platform provided around the frame; a drive system usable to rotate the sensor platform around the frame; and logic control circuitry, wherein: the sensor platform includes at least two sensor types; and the logic control circuitry controls at least one of at least one sensor and the drive system in response to output signals from at least one sensor. 11. The robot of claim 10, wherein the logic control circuitry comprises at least one of at least one embedded computer and at least one logic processor and at least one energy management system. 12. The robot of claim 10, wherein the sensor platform comprises a plurality of sections coupled with each other, at least two of the sections being hingedly coupled to each other and at least two of the sections being from each other and at least one section further comprising a slip ring electrical connection usable to transmit electrical signals between the sensor ring platform and the frame of the robot while the sensor ring platform is rotating. 13. The robot of claim 10, wherein the drive system comprises: a motor associated with one of the sensor platform and the frame; and a gear associated with the other of the sensor platform and the frame. 14. The robot of claim 13, wherein, when the motor is associated with the sensor platform, the motor is mounted in the sensor platform. 15. The robot of claim 13, wherein, when the motor is associated with the sensor platform, the motor is mounted on the sensor platform. 16. The robot of claim 10, wherein the logic control device is capable of receiving signals from at least one of the at least two sensors and altering the drive system rotation in response to the received sensor signals. 17. The robot of claim 10, wherein the at least one sensor comprises at least one sensor mounted in the sensor platform. 18. The robot of claim 10, wherein the at least one sensor comprises at least one sensor mounted on the sensor platform. 19. A sensor platform mountable onto a robot having a frame, the sensor platform comprising: a flexible platform provided around the frame of the robot; a drive system usable to rotate the flexible platform around the frame; and logic control circuitry, wherein: the sensor platform-includes at least two sensor types; and the logic control circuitry controls at least one of at least one sensor and the drive system in response to output signals from at least one sensor. 