An apparatus houses a plurality of surgical elements, such as needles and sutures, both before and after use. The largest cross-sectional dimension of the housing is preferably less than about 12 mm. In some embodiments, the apparatus includes a substantially rigid housing having a first section that holds a plurality of unused needles and a second section that receives the plurality of needles after use. In other embodiments, the apparatus includes a flexible panel having a plurality of pockets therein, wherein each pocket is configured to house a single needle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for holding a plurality of surgical needles and for use in performing robotic-assisted endoscopic surgery on a subject's body, the apparatus comprising: a housing including a first section and second section, said sections terminating in a first and second opposing end tabs wherein, the first tab is wider than the second tab and wherein the tabs on the first and second housing are oriented in opposite positions relative to each other such that in the closed position the first tab of the first section overlaps the second tab of the second section wherein the housing is manipulable by grasping and manipulating said tabs between a closed position in which the housing encloses an interior space and an open position in which the interior space is accessible and wherein in the closed position the housing has a largest cross-sectional lateral dimension of less than about 12 mm; a first needle holder that is located in the first housing section and that holds a plurality of unused ones of the needles in the interior space; and a second needle holder that is located in the second housing section and that receives and holds a plurality of used ones of the needles in the interior space after suturing use of the needles, wherein the second needle holder is a substantially closed chamber that receives and contains the used needles, wherein the second needle holder includes an access opening through which the used needles can be inserted into the chamber and a spring-biased door movable between a closed position covering the opening and an open position for exposing the opening for used-needle insertion. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the housing is a clamshell housing having the first section hingedly connected to the second section. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a locking mechanism adapted to secure the housing in the closed position. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the housing further comprises an internal divider wall that cooperates with the second section of the housing to form the substantially enclosed chamber. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the access opening is formed the internal divider wall. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the second section of the housing is constructed of a substantially transparent or semi-transparent material through which the needles in the housing can be viewed with 3D visualization equipment to permit counting the needles before removing the apparatus from the subject's body. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first needle holder includes at least one block of a material into which the unused needles are tacked. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a cord extending from an end of the housing, wherein the cord can be pulled to remove the apparatus through the trocar. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the housing includes at least one aperture and the cord is flexible and routed through the at least one aperture. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the cord is formed into a closed loop. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of sutures, wherein the needles are threaded with corresponding ones of sutures. 12. A method of using the apparatus of claim 1 in performing robotic-assisted endoscopic surgery, comprising the steps of: placing the closed apparatus inside the human or animal subject through the incision in the subject; opening the apparatus to reveal the plurality of needles; removing a first one of the needles from the first needle holder of the first section of the housing; using the first needle to suture tissue; storing the first needle in the second needle holder of the second section of the housing; closing the housing; and removing the closed apparatus from the subject through the incision in the subject. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of counting the needles in the housing before removing the closed apparatus from the subject, wherein the needle-counting step includes viewing the used needles in the second needle holder of the second section through a substantially transparent or semi-transparent portion of the housing. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the step of removing the closed apparatus from the subject includes grasping and pulling a tab cord coupled to an end tab of the housing. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the step of placing the closed apparatus inside the subject includes inserting the closed apparatus through a trocar inserted through the incision, and wherein the step of removing the closed apparatus from the subject includes removing the closed apparatus through the trocar inserted through the incision. 16. An apparatus for holding a plurality of surgical needles and for use with a trocar in performing robotic-assisted endoscopic surgery on a subject's body, the apparatus comprising: an elongated housing including a first section and a second section, said sections terminating in a first and second opposing end tabs wherein the first tab is wider than the second tab and wherein the tabs on the first and second housing are oriented in opposite positions relative to each other such that in the closed position the first tab of the first section overlaps the second tab of the second section wherein the housing is manipulable between a closed position in which the housing sections enclose an interior space and an open position in which the interior space is accessible, wherein in the closed position the housing has a largest cross-sectional lateral dimension of less than about 12 mm; a first needle holder that is located in the first housing section and that holds a plurality of unused ones of the needles in the interior space; a second needle holder that is located in the second housing section and that receives and holds a plurality of used ones of the needles in the interior space after suturing use of the needles, wherein the second needle holder is a substantially enclosed chamber that receives and contains the used needles, the housing further comprises an internal divider wall that defines an access opening and a spring-biased door covering the opening, the divider wall cooperates with the second section of the housing to form the substantially enclosed chamber, the used needles can be inserted into the chamber through the access opening, the spring-biased door pivots between a closed position covering the opening and an open position pivoted into the chamber and exposing the access opening for used needle insertion, the door is spring-biased into the closed position so that the door is normally in the closed position unless a force is applied to the door, and at least a portion of second section of the housing is made of a substantially transparent or semi-transparent material through which the used needles in the enclosed chamber can be viewed to permit counting the needles before removing the apparatus from the subject's body; and a cord extending from an end of the housing, wherein the housing includes at least one aperture and the cord is flexible, routed through the at least one aperture, and formed into a closed loop, and wherein the cord can be pulled to remove the apparatus through the trocar, wherein in use the apparatus in the closed position can be inserted into the subject's body through the trocar, the housing can be opened, the unused needles can be removed from the first needle holder of the first housing section for suturing, the used needles can be stored in the second needle holder of the second housing section after suturing, the housing can be closed, and the apparatus in the closed position can be removed from the subject's body through the trocar. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the housing is a clamshell housing having the first section hingedly connected to the second section, and further comprising a locking mechanism adapted to secure the housing in the closed position. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first needle holder includes at least one block of a material into which the unused needles are tacked. 19. The apparatus in claim 1, wherein the door is pivotal and spring-biased into the closed position so that the door is normally in the closed position unless a force is applied to the door, wherein in the open position the door is pivoted into the chamber, and wherein the spring-biased door pivots from the normal closed position to the open position exposing the opening for used needle insertion upon a used one of the needles being pressed against the door and then pivots back to the normal closed position upon release of the used needle in the chamber so that the used needle is no longer pressed against the door. 20. The apparatus in claim 19, wherein when the door is in the normal closed position, the chamber is substantially enclosed such that there is no space through which the used needles stored therein can pass and escape the chamber. 