A system for simultaneously treating multiple workpieces is configured with sites, configured to hold respective workpieces, affixed on a rotatable base. Each site has a shelf accommodating an interior space and may be positioned by base rotation in alignment with a station of fixed location. Each station is equipped with an active component. The active components are movable simultaneously within respective stations into the respective interior spaces of respective aligned sites.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for treating a plurality of workpieces, each workpiece comprising a first body having a thickness and a lateral area and a second body having a lateral area larger than the lateral area of the first body, the system comprising: four substantially identical stations, comprising a pair of loading stations and a pair of unloading stations, distinct from the loading stations, and each configured with an upper heat-transfer body and a lower heat-transfer body; a base, disposed between the lower heat-transfer bodies and the upper heat-transfer bodies; two nonoverlapping pairs of substantially identical sites on the base, arranged analogously to the stations, each site comprising a shelf having a horizontal ledge and a vertical wall, accommodating an interior space above the base, and configured to bear one of the workpieces, wherein the base is rotatable about an axis to align each of the pairs of sites in turn with the loading stations and the unloading stations, and the stations are operable simultaneously to lift respective lower heat-transfer bodies into respective interior spaces of respective aligned sites while heating the lower and upper heat-transfer bodies. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the shelf at each site is a lower shelf, the interior space at each site is a first interior space corresponding in lateral extent to the first body, each of the sites further comprises an upper shelf, having a vertical wall and a horizontal ledge, accommodating a second interior space corresponding in lateral extent to the second body, and the respective horizontal ledges of the upper and lower shelves at each site are separated vertically by a distance greater than the thickness of the first body. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the stations are operable to press respective workpieces loaded onto respective aligned sites between respective lower heat-transfer bodies and respective upper heat-transfer bodies while heating the respective lower and upper heat-transfer bodies, thereby effecting a bond between respective first bodies and respective second bodies. 4. A system for treating a plurality of workpieces, the system comprising: a plurality of substantially identical stations, comprising a pair of loading stations and a pair of unloading stations distinct from the loading stations, each station being configured with an upper heat-transfer body and a lower heat-transfer body, the lower heat-transfer bodies being operable simultaneously to rise toward respective upper heat-transfer bodies; a base, disposed between the lower heat-transfer bodies and the upper heat-transfer bodies; a plurality of nonoverlapping pairs of substantially identical sites on the base, arranged analogously to the stations, each site comprising a shelf, having a horizontal ledge and a vertical wall, accommodating an interior space above the base, and configured to bear one of the workpieces; and an enclosure, housing the stations, base and sites, having an input gate through which the loading stations are accessible and an output gate, distinct from the input gate, through which the unloading stations are accessible, wherein the base is rotatable about an axis to align each of the pairs of sites in turn with the loading stations and the unloading stations and the enclosure, base, stations and sites, belonging to a first chamber. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein in the stations the respective lower heat-transfer bodies are operable to rise into the respective first interior spaces of respective aligned sites. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein the stations are operable to press respective workpieces loaded onto respective aligned sites between respective lower and upper heat-transfer bodies. 7. The system of claim 5 wherein each of the workpieces comprises a first body having a thickness and a lateral area and a second body having a lateral area larger than the lateral area of the first body, the shelf at each site is a lower shelf, the interior space at each site is a first interior space corresponding in lateral extent to the first body, each of the sites further comprises an upper shelf, having a vertical wall and a horizontal ledge, accommodating a second interior space corresponding in lateral extent to the second body, and the respective horizontal ledges of the upper and lower shelves at each site are separated vertically by a distance greater than the thickness of the first body. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the lateral area of the first body corresponds to a standard semiconductor wafer and the thickness is less than 1 mm. 9. The system of claim 7 wherein the lateral area of the first body and the lateral area of the second body are different in shape. 10. The system of claim 4 wherein the sites are four in number. 11. The system of claim 4 further comprising a loading device configured to load one of the workpieces onto each of two sites, aligned with respective loading stations, simultaneously. 12. The system of claim 4 wherein each of the workpieces comprises a first and second body and the stations are operable simultaneously to cause respective first bodies and respective second bodies loaded onto respective aligned sites to bond together. 13. The system of claim 4 wherein the stations are operable simultaneously to cause respective laminae to exfoliate from respective workpieces, implanted with atoms defining respective cleave planes, loaded onto respective aligned sites. 14. A system for treating a plurality of workpieces, the system comprising: a plurality of substantially identical treatment stations, comprising one or more loading stations and one or more unloading stations, wherein the loading and unloading stations are mutually distinct and each of the treatment stations is configured with a lower component; a base, disposed above the lower components; and a plurality of substantially identical treatment sites on the base, arranged analogously to the treatment stations, each treatment site comprising a shelf, having a horizontal ledge and a vertical wall, accommodating an interior space above the base, configured to bear one of the workpieces, wherein the base is rotatable about an axis to align each of the treatment sites in turn with respective treatment stations for loading and unloading, in the treatment stations the respective lower components are operable to rise into the respective interior spaces of respective aligned treatment sites, and the treatment stations, treatment base and treatment sites constitute a first chamber. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein each workpiece comprises a first body and a second body and the treatment stations are operable simultaneously to cause respective first bodies and respective second bodies on respective aligned treatment sites to bond together. 16. The system of claim 14 wherein the treatment stations are operable simultaneously to cause respective laminae to exfoliate from respective workpieces, implanted with atoms defining respective cleave planes, on respective aligned treatment sites. 17. The system of claim 14 wherein in the treatment stations the respective lower components are operable to heat respective workpieces on respective aligned treatment sites. 18. The system of claim 14 wherein each of the treatment stations is configured further with an upper component disposed above the base and the stations are operable to press respective workpieces loaded onto respective aligned treatment sites between respective lower components and respective upper components. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein the treatment stations are operable to apply a voltage between respective lower components and respective upper components. 20. The system of claim 14 wherein the first chamber comprises an enclosure having an input gate and an output gate distinct from the input gate. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein the enclosure further comprises a lid, the system further comprising: a cooling base, disposed on the lid; one or more transfer stations each situated above one of the unloading stations; and a plurality of cooling sites, each configured to bear one of the workpieces on the cooling base, arranged analogously to the treatment sites, wherein the cooling base is rotatable about the axis to align each of the cooling sites in turn for workpiece transfer and coupled to the treatment base so that the cooling sites at all times lie in fixed relationships with and move in parallel with respective treatment sites. 22. The system of claim 14 further comprising: a second chamber configured with a plurality of process stations, comprising one or more loading stations and one or more unloading stations, wherein the loading and unloading stations of the second chamber are mutually distinct and each of the process stations is configured with an active component movable within its process station; a process base; and a plurality of process sites, each configured to bear one of the workpieces on the process base, arranged analogously to the process stations, wherein the process base is rotatable about an axis to align each of the process sites in turn with respective process stations for loading and unloading. 