A robotic system includes a humanoid robot with multiple compliant joints, each moveable using one or more of the actuators, and having sensors for measuring control and feedback data. A distributed controller controls the joints and other integrated system components over multiple high-speed communication networks. Diagnostic, prognostic, and health management (DPHM) modules are embedded within the robot at the various control levels. Each DPHM module measures, controls, and records DPHM data for the respective control level/connected device in a location that is accessible over the networks or via an external device. A method of controlling the robot includes embedding a plurality of the DPHM modules within multiple control levels of the distributed controller, using the DPHM modules to measure DPHM data within each of the control levels, and recording the DPHM data in a location that is accessible over at least one of the high-speed communication networks.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: a robot having a plurality of integrated system components, including a plurality of compliant robotic joints, actuators each connected to and configured to move a respective one of the robotic joints, and sensors that measure control and feedback data at a plurality of control points of the robotic system; and a controller in communication with the integrated system components, and having distributed control levels, wherein the controller is configured to control the integrated system components using information from the sensors, via the multiple distributed control levels, over multiple high-speed communication networks; wherein the controller includes a finite state machine (FSM) having hardware, software, and firmware, and further includes a plurality of embedded diagnostic, prognostic, and health management (DPHM) modules, at least one of which is embedded within each of the integrated system components, each of the DPHM modules being configured to measure and control, using the at least one FSM, DPHM data and system behavior for a respective one of the integrated system components, and to record the DPHM data in a memory location that is accessible over the high-speed communication networks. 2. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the DPHM modules collectively provide DPHM functionality at all software and hardware levels of the robotic system. 3. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to use the DPHM modules to automatically default the robot to a fail-safe mode in response to a predetermined fault condition. 4. The robotic system of claim 3, wherein the controller is configured to execute, via the DPHM modules and the at least one FSM, in response to the predetermined fault condition, at least one of: reporting of a system status, activation of an indicator device, disablement of at least one of the integrated system components, and prevention of at least one of the joints from moving to a threshold position. 5. The robotic system of claim 1, further comprising a DPHM hardware device connected at any of the distributed control levels and configured to directly access information stored within any of the DPHM modules without communicating across any of the high-speed communication networks. 6. The robotic system of claim 1, further comprising multiple hardware control modules each providing a different dedicated function for execution by the humanoid robot, wherein a corresponding one of the DPHM modules is embedded within each of the hardware control modules. 7. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the robot has at least 42 degrees of freedom. 8. A controller for use with a humanoid robot having a plurality of integrated system components including a plurality of compliant robotic joints, actuators, and sensors configured to measure control and feedback data at a corresponding one of the integrated system components, the controller comprising: multiple distributed control levels, each having a hardware control module; a finite state machine (FSM) having hardware, software, and firmware, wherein each of the DPHM modules interfaces directly with the FSM; and multiple high-speed communication networks; wherein each hardware control module includes a plurality of diagnostic, prognostic, and health management (DPHM) modules, at least one of the DPHM modules being embedded within each of the integrated system components at each of the distributed control levels, and wherein each of the control modules, using a respective one of the DPHM modules, is configured to measure and control DPHM data and system behavior for the respective integrated system component, and to record the DPHM data in a location that is accessible over the communication networks. 9. The controller of claim 8, wherein the DPHM modules collectively provide DPHM functionality at all software and hardware levels of the robotic system. 10. The controller of claim 8, further comprising a DPHM hardware device that directly accesses information stored within any of the DPHM modules without using any of the high-speed communication networks. 11. The controller of claim 8, wherein the sensors include a pair of position encoders, and wherein at least one of the control modules, via one of the DPHM modules is configured to enter a fail-safe mode when a difference in the values from the pair of position encoders exceeds a calibrated threshold value. 12. The controller of claim 8, further comprising a plurality of control modules each providing a dedicated function for execution by the humanoid robot, wherein one of the DPHM modules is embedded within each of the control modules. 13. The controller of claim 12, wherein the plurality of control modules include each of a haptic sensing module and a vision sensing module. 14. A method of controlling a robot within a robotic system having a plurality of integrated system components, including a plurality of compliant robotic joints, actuators, and sensors that measure feedback data at a corresponding one of the robotic joints, the method comprising: configuring a controller with multiple control levels and multiple high-speed communication networks; embedding a DPHM module within each of the integrated system components; using the DPHM modules to measure DPHM data within each of the control levels; using a finite state machine (FSM) in at least one of the control levels to measure and control, via the DPHM modules, DPHM data and system behavior for the integrated system components, wherein the FSM includes hardware, software, and firmware; and recording the DPHM data in a memory location that is accessible over at least one of the high-speed communication networks. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein using the DPHM modules to measure DPHM data includes automatically defaulting the robotic system to a fail-safe mode when the DPHM module determines the presence of a predetermined fault condition. 16. The robotic system of claim 15, wherein defaulting to a fail-safe mode includes at least one of: reporting a status, activating an indicator device, disabling power to at least one of the integrated system components, and preventing at least one of the compliant robotic joints from moving to an unsafe state, placing at least one of the compliant robotic joints in a predetermined passivity state. 17. The robotic system of claim 16, wherein defaulting to a fail-safe mode includes placing the joint in a predetermined passivity state, the predetermined state being a gravity-compensating state maintaining a calibrated amount of gravity compensation for a threshold minimal weight of the humanoid robot. 