The present invention is an improved structure for robotic cleaner primarily comprising of a chassis with plurality of spherical casters fixed to the periphery of bottom deck, a dust collector mounted on the chassis, a lifting actuation mechanism mounted on the chassis that includes a lifting power supply at least to drive two parallel and extendable first swing arms and two parallel and extending second swing arms through a relevant linking device, a first gear train and a second gear train that can pivotally rotate in reverse direction, a drive wheel mounted at the moveable end of the two parallel and extending first swing arms each, a driven wheel mounted at the moveable end of the two parallel and extending second swing arms each, plural advancing power supplies mounted at the middle section of the first swing arms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An improved structure for robotic cleaner, that comprises at least: a chassis with plurality of spherical casters fixed to the periphery of bottom deck that can be free to roll when exerted an external force, a dust collector mounted on the chassis that can move together with the chassis to collect the miscellaneous articles and dusts along the path of movement, a lifting actuation mechanism mounted on the chassis that includes a lifting power supply at least to output power through a linking device as a minimum, a first swing arm set that comprises of two parallel and extending first swing arms as a minimum with one end of the first swing arm jointed respectively to the linking device of the lifting actuation mechanism and driven to rotate pivotally to perform the action of support and outward stretch or inward retraction and with the other end of the first swing arms are mounted a drive wheel each, a second swing arm set that comprises of two parallel and extending second swing arms as a minimum with one end of the first swing arm jointed respectively to the linking device of the lifting actuation mechanism and driven to rotate pivotally in a direction opposite to the first swing arm set to perform the action of support and outward stretch or inward retraction, and with the other end of the second swing arms are mounted a driven each, plural advancing power supplies mounted at the middle section of the first swing arms each that can drive each drive wheel to rotate in forward and backward. 2. An improved structure for robotic cleaner as claimed in the claim 1, wherein, the linking device of the lifting actuation mechanism is comprised of two gear trains, the first gear train and the second gear train, and a linkage connecting the first gear train and the second gear train; also the first gear train is assembled to the first swing arm set while the second gear train is assembled to the second swing arm set so that the first gear train can be actuated by the lifting power supply to link through the linkage to drive the second gear train for the first swing arm set and the second swing arm set to pivotally rotate in reverse direction respectively. 3. An improved structure for robotic cleaner as claimed in the claim 1, wherein, the linking device of the lifting actuation mechanism is comprised of two gear trains, the first gear train is coupled to the lifting power supply while the second gear train is coupled to another lifting power supply, that allows these two lifting power supplies to drive the first swing arm set and the second swing set directly and respectively to pivotally rotate in reverse direction. 4. An improved structure for robotic cleaner as claimed in the claim 1, wherein, a plurality of sensors are fixed to the peripheral edge around the chassis that can detect the characteristics of peripheral environment; a speed reducer is mounted between the advancing power supply and the drive wheel; an air suction intake is fitted to the dust collector while the air intake is mounted a filter. 5. An improved structure for robotic cleaner as claimed in the claim 2, wherein, a plurality of sensors are fixed to the peripheral edge around the chassis that can detect the characteristics of peripheral environment; a speed reducer is mounted between the advancing power supply and the drive wheel; an air suction intake is fitted to the dust collector while the air intake is mounted a filter. 6. An improved structure for robotic cleaner as claimed in the claim 3, wherein, a plurality of sensors are fixed to the peripheral edge around the chassis that can detect the characteristics of peripheral environment; a speed reducer is mounted between the advancing power supply and the drive wheel; an air suction intake is fitted to the dust collector while the air intake is mounted a filter. 7. An improved structure for robotic cleaner as claimed in the claim 1, wherein, a speed reducer is mounted between the advancing power supply and the drive wheel; an air suction intake is fitted to the dust collector while the air intake is mounted a filter. 8. An improved structure for robotic cleaner as claimed in the claim 2, wherein, a speed reducer is mounted between the advancing power supply and the drive wheel; an air suction intake is fitted to the dust collector while the air intake is mounted a filter. 9. An improved structure for robotic cleaner as claimed in the claim 3, wherein, a speed reducer is mounted between the advancing power supply and the drive wheel; an air suction intake is fitted to the dust collector while the air intake is mounted a filter. 10. An improved structure for robotic cleaner as claimed in the claim 1, wherein, an air suction intake is fitted to the dust collector while the air intake is mounted a filter. 11. An improved structure for robotic cleaner as claimed in the claim 2, wherein, an air suction intake is fitted to the dust collector while the air intake is mounted a filter. 12. An improved structure for robotic cleaner as claimed in the claim 3, wherein, an air suction intake is fitted to the dust collector while the air intake is mounted a filter. 