In a control system for a lower limb prosthesis or orthosis, a plurality of sensors generate sensor signals representing kinematic measurements (21) relating to the movement of segments of a prosthesis or orthosis (e.g. a thigh segment and a shank segment). The sensor signals are applied in a comparison stage 22 to a plurality of comparison steps (K1, K2, K3) which produce binary outputs for feeding to a combining stage (23) in which a binary word (16) is produced, identifying a phase of limb motion. During a walking cycle, for instance, the binary word (16) changes, and the sequence of words represents a movement phase description which is used as the input for a prosthetic or orthotic movement controller.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A control system for a lower limb prosthesis or orthosis, comprising: a plurality of sensors for generating electrical sensor signals representative of kinematic parameters which relate to the motion of upper and lower limb segments of the prosthesis or orthosis, said sensor signals indicating at least one of limb segment velocity and limb segment acceleration for each said limb segment, an electronic processing circuit including a comparison stage for comparing the kinematic parameters of said limb segments with each other and outputting corresponding binary state values, and a combination stage in which the binary state values are combined to produce a binary word representing a phase of motion. 2. A control system according to claim 1, wherein the comparison and combination stages are arranged to perform comparing and combining operations repeatedly to produce a sequence of the said binary words which sequence represents a limb movement description comprising a series of unique gait phases each represented by a respective said binary word. 3. A control system according to claim 1, wherein the sensors and the processing circuit are arranged to produce binary state values for at least two kinematic parameters each relating to the motion of a respective limb segment of the prosthesis or orthosis. 4. A control system according to claim 3, wherein the kinematic parameters include a first parameter representative of the motion of a thigh segment and a second parameter representative of the motion of a shank segment. 5. A control system according to claim 4, wherein the kinematic parameters include a third parameter representative of the motion of a foot segment. 6. A control system according to claim 1, wherein the comparison stage is arranged to compare a first kinematic parameter with a second kinematic parameter to produce a first binary state value, and to compare at least one of the kinematic parameters with a zero reference value to produce a second binary state value indicative of the polarity of the parameter. 7. A control system according to claim 6, wherein the first and second kinematic parameters are angular velocities and the first binary state value is indicative of joint flexion and extension. 8. A control system according to claim 6, wherein the first binary state value forms the most significant bit (MSB) of the binary word. 9. A control system according to claim 1, wherein the comparison stage is arranged to compare a first kinematic parameter with a second kinematic parameter to produce a first parameter state value, to compare the first kinematic parameter with a predefined threshold value to produce a second parameter state value, and to compare the second kinematic parameter with a predefined threshold value to produce a third parameter state value, the combination stage being arranged to form the binary word from the first, second and third parameter state values, the word having at least three bits. 10. A control system according to claim 9, arranged to measure a third said kinematic parameter, and wherein the comparison stage is arranged to compare the third kinematic parameter with a threshold value to produce a fourth parameter state value, the combining stage being arranged to combine the fourth parameter state value with the first to third parameter state values to form a binary word of at least four bits. 11. A lower limb prosthesis including a controller for controlling joint motions, and a control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is coupled to the control system to receive said binary or signal words and to generate control responses thereto. 12. A lower limb prosthesis including a control system according to claim 1, the control system further including a knowledge base representing models of different limb activities and being arranged to use the models for comparison and to adjust control responses according to changing walking speeds and/or activities. 13. A prosthesis according to claim 12, wherein the models each comprise a respective sequence of the said binary words. 14. A lower limb orthosis including a controller for controlling joint motions, and a control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is coupled to the control system to receive said binary words and to generate control responses thereto. 15. A lower limb orthosis including a control system according to claim 1, the control system further including a knowledge base representing models of different limb activities and being arranged to use the models for comparison and to adjust control responses according to changing walking speeds and/or activities. 16. An orthosis according to claim 15, wherein the models each comprise a respective sequence of the said binary words. 17. A control system for a lower limb prosthesis or orthosis comprising; a plurality of sensors adapted and arranged to produce sensor outputs representative of kinematic parameters which relate to the motion of upper and lower limb segments of the prosthesis or orthosis, said sensor signals indicating the angular velocities or angular accelerations of each of said limb segments of the prosthesis or orthosis, and an electronic processing circuit arranged to perform a non-deterministic process of gait phase characterization based on said kinematic parameters of said limb segments to produce a digital movement description as a series of signal words representing successive movement phases which are characterised according to a common set of said kinematic parameters. 18. A control system according to claim 17, wherein each signal word represents a unique gait phase. 19. A lower limb prosthesis including a control system according to claim 17, the control system further including a knowledge base representing models of different limb activities and being arranged to use the models for comparison and to adjust control responses according to changing walking speeds and/or activities. 20. A lower limb orthosis including a control system according to claim 17, the control system further including a knowledge base representing models of different limb activities and being arranged to use the models for comparison and to adjust control responses according to changing walking speeds and/or activities. 21. A method of analysing gait characteristics comprising the steps of: receiving kinematic measurement data, said kinematic measurement data comprising kinematic parameters representing the motion of relatively moving upper and lower limb segments of a limb, the kinematic parameters being limb segment velocity and/or limb segment acceleration for each said limb segment, comparing said kinematic parameters of said limb segments with each other and outputting kinematic parameter state values, each said parameter state value being one of two values in dependence on the result of said comparison, and combining the parameter state values to produce a binary word, said binary word representing a unique gait phase. 22. A method of analysing gait as claimed in claim 21 wherein, a first kinematic parameter is compared to a second kinematic parameter to produce a first parameter state value, said first kinematic parameter is compared to a predefined threshold value to produce a second parameter state value, said second kinematic parameter is compared to a predefined threshold value to produce a third parameter state value and wherein the binary word is formed from said first, second and third parameter state values. 23. A method of analysing gait as claimed in claim 22 wherein, a third kinematic parameter is measured and compared to a threshold value to produce a fourth parameter state value and said fourth parameter state value is appended to said binary word. 24. A method of analyzing gait according to claim 21, wherein the kinematic parameters include the angular velocities or accelerations of thigh and shank segments of a lower limb prosthesis. 