This invention relates generally to software and mechanics, and more specifically, to systems and methods for providing a personal affector machine. In one embodiment, the invention includes a top frame; a cross-member, the cross-member extending from the top frame, the cross-member configurable to do any of translate and rotate relative to the top frame; an affector head, the affector head coupled to the cross-member, the affector head configurable to do any of translate, rotate, and gyrate relative to the top frame, the affector head having an affector; a bottom frame, the bottom frame coupled to the top frame; and a cassette, the cassette configurable to removably securing material therein, the cassette being removably attachable to the bottom frame, wherein the affector is configurable to affecting the material within the cassette in a plurality of dimensions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A personal affector machine for affecting material, the personal affector machine comprising: a frame; a cross-member extending from the frame, the cross-member configured to translate relative to the frame; an affector head coupled to the cross-member, the affector head configured to translate relative to the frame, the affector head having an affector; a cassette configured to removably secure the material therein, wherein the cassette comprises a cassette frame defining a cassette cavity, wherein the cassette is removably attachable to the frame; and a vacuum system articulably coupled to the affector head and configured to move in concert with the affector head to remove debris, wherein the affector is configured to affect the material secured therein the cassette in a plurality of dimensions. 2. The personal affector machine of claim 1, wherein the frame comprises a top frame and a bottom frame, wherein the top frame defines a perimeter and wherein the cross-member extends between opposing sides of the top frame. 3. The personal affector machine of claim 2, wherein the bottom frame defines a cavity and a cassette opening and wherein the cassette is configured to removably attach to the bottom frame by being inserted within the cavity through the cassette opening. 4. The personal affector machine of claim 3, further comprising: a cross-member motor configured to controllably move the cross-member relative to the top frame; and an affector head motor configured to controllably move the affector head relative to the top frame. 5. The personal affector machine of claim 4, wherein the bottom frame is any of hingedly and slidably coupled to the top frame. 6. The personal affector machine of claim 1, wherein any of electrical power, data, water, air, metal, ink, and suction are provided to the affector head through the vacuum system. 7. The personal affector machine of claim 1, wherein the cassette further comprises at least one clamp disposed against the cassette frame, the at least one clamp configured to removably secure the material within the cassette cavity. 8. The personal affector machine of claim 5, wherein the cassette cavity is accessible from opposing sides of the cassette and wherein the cassette is flipably insertable through the cassette opening of the bottom frame. 9. The personal affector machine of claim 1, wherein the cassette further comprises: an axle rotatably coupled to the cassette frame; and a material receiving surface rotatably coupled to the axle, wherein the material is removably secured to the material receiving surface and rotated about an axle axis defined by the axle and a material receiving surface axis defined by the material receiving surface. 10. The personal affector machine of claim 9, further comprising: an axle motor configured to controllably rotate the axle; and a material receiving surface motor configured to controllably rotate the material receiving surface. 11. A personal affector machine for affecting material, the personal affector machine comprising: a frame for supporting an affector head, wherein the frame defines a cassette opening; a cassette comprising at least one clamp configured to removably secure the material within a cavity defined therein the cassette, wherein the cassette is insertable through the cassette opening; a means for translating the affector head relative to the frame; and a means for removing debris resulting from the affector head affecting the material, wherein the affector head is configurable to affect the material in a plurality of dimensions. 12. A method for affecting material, the method comprising the steps of: providing a personal affector machine comprising: a frame; a cross-member extending from the frame, the cross-member configured to translate relative to the frame; an affector head coupled to the cross-member, the affector head configured to translate relative to the frame, the affector head having an affector; and a cassette configured to removably secure the material therein, the cassette being removably attachable to the frame; securing the material therein the cassette; attaching the cassette to the personal affector machine through a cassette opening defined in the frame; removing portions of the material with the affector head; and providing a vacuum system articulably coupled to the affector head and configured to move in concert with the affector head to remove debris. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the frame defines a cavity and wherein the cassette is configured to removably attach to the frame by being inserted within the cavity through the cassette opening. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of: providing a cross-member motor configured to controllably move the cross-member relative to the frame; and providing an affector head motor configured to controllably move the affector head relative to the frame. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the frame comprises a top frame and a bottom frame, and wherein the bottom frame is any of hingedly and slidably coupled to the top frame. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein the step of affecting the material with the affector head comprises affecting a first side of the material with the affector head, removing the cassette from the personal affector machine, flipping the cassette, attaching the cassette to the personal affector machine through the cassette opening and affecting a second side of the material that is opposed to the first side. 17. A personal affector machine for affecting material, the personal affector machine comprising: a frame; a cross-member extending from the frame, the cross-member configured to translate relative to the frame; an affector head coupled to the cross-member, the affector head configured to translate relative to the frame, the affector head having an affector; a cassette configured to removably secure the material therein, wherein the cassette comprises: a cassette frame defining a cassette cavity, and wherein the cassette is removably attachable to the frame; an axle rotatably coupled to the cassette frame; and a material receiving surface rotatably coupled to the axle, wherein the material is removably secured to the material receiving surface and rotated about an axle axis defined by the axle and a material receiving surface axis defined by the material receiving surface, wherein the affector is configured to affect the material secured therein the cassette in a plurality of dimensions. 18. The personal affector machine of claim 17, wherein the frame comprises a top frame and a bottom frame, wherein the top frame defines a perimeter and wherein the cross-member extends between opposing sides of the top frame. 19. The personal affector machine of claim 18, wherein the bottom frame defines a cavity and a cassette opening and wherein the cassette is configured to removably attach to the bottom frame by being inserted within the cavity through the cassette opening. 20. The personal affector machine of claim 19, further comprising: a cross-member motor configured to controllably move the cross-member relative to the top frame; and an affector head motor configured to controllably move the affector head relative to the top frame. 21. The personal affector machine of claim 20, wherein the bottom frame is any of hingedly and slidably coupled to the top frame. 22. The personal affector machine of claim 19, wherein the cassette cavity is accessible from opposing sides of the cassette and wherein the cassette is flipably insertable through the cassette opening of the bottom frame. 23. The personal affector machine of claim 17, wherein any of electrical power, data, water, air, metal, ink, and suction are provided to the affector head through the vacuum system. 24. The personal affector machine of claim 17, wherein the cassette further comprises at least one clamp disposed against the cassette frame, the at least one clamp configured to removably secure the material within the cassette cavity. 25. The personal affector machine of claim 17, further comprising: an axle motor configured to controllably rotate the axle; and a material receiving surface motor configured to controllably rotate the material receiving surface. 