A system and method for aligning maps using polyline matching is provided. A global map and a local map are represented as polyline maps including a plurality of line segments. One or more approximate matches between the polyline maps are identified. One or more refined matches are determined from the approximate matches. The global map and the local map are aligned at the one or more refined matches.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for aligning maps using polyline matching, comprising: a processor to execute the following modules, comprising: a representation module representing a global map and a local map as polyline maps comprising a plurality of line segments; an approximation module identifying one or more approximate matches between the polyline maps; a refinement module determining one or more refined matches from the approximate matches, comprising: an algorithm module applying a greedy algorithm comprising two choices to the approximate matches; and a cost module determining a cost function associated with each of the two choices and choosing the choice with the lowest cost function, wherein the cost function is determined according to the equation: .epsilon.=.parallel.f(d.sub.1, . . . , d.sub.k)-g(d.sub.1+.DELTA.d.sub.1, . . . , d.sub.k+.DELTA.d.sub.k).parallel..sup.2+.alpha..parallel..DELTA.d- .sub.1, . . . .DELTA.d.sub.k.parallel..sup.2 where {d.sub.1, . . . , d.sub.k} represents length of each segment in polylines f(.cndot.) is a polyline map M.sub.1.sup.sub, g(.cndot.) is polyline map M.sub.2, .parallel.f-g.parallel..sup.2 is match accuracy, or deviation, between M.sub.2 and M.sub.1.sup.sub, and .alpha..parallel..DELTA.d.sub.1, . . . .DELTA.d.sub.k.parallel..sup.2 is overall length perturbation, where .alpha. is a regularization parameter controlling tradeoff between match accuracy and length modification .DELTA.d.sub.i; and an alignment module aligning the global map and the local map at the one or more refined matches. 2. A system according to claim 1, further comprising: a receiver module receiving the plurality of line segments for each of the global map and the local map; and a polyline module determining an arclength and an angle for each segment and generating the polyline map for each map. 3. A system according to claim 1, further comprising: a submap module identifying each turn point of the global map and the local map and generating a submap of the global map with a length equal to the local map; and an error module comparing the submap and the local map at each of their respective turning points, determining a match error at each of the compared turning points, and identifying the compared turning points with the lowest match errors as candidate matches. 4. A system according to claim 3, wherein the candidate matches are one of below a predetermined threshold, a set number, and a percentage of total determined match errors. 5. A system according to claim 1, wherein the two choices are adjust line segment length and adjust line segment structure. 6. A system according to claim 1, wherein the cost function comprises terms for match error, stretch potential, and implication on later segments. 7. A system according to claim 1, wherein the global map and local map are determined by one of a floor plan, manual surveying, and mobile robot navigation. 8. A method for aligning maps using polyline matching, comprising: representing a global map and a local map as polyline maps comprising a plurality of line segments; identifying one or more approximate matches between the polyline maps; determining one or more refined matches from the approximate matches; matches, comprising: applying a greedy algorithm comprising two choices to the approximate matches; determining a cost function associated with each of the two choices, wherein the cost function is determined according to the equation: .epsilon.=.parallel.f(d.sub.1, . . . , d.sub.k)-g(d.sub.1+.DELTA.d.sub.1, . . . , d.sub.k+.DELTA.d.sub.k).parallel..sup.2+.alpha..parallel..DELTA.d- .sub.1, . . . .DELTA.d.sub.k.parallel..sup.2 where {d.sub.1, . . . , d.sub.k} represents length of each segment in polylines, f(.andgate.) is polyline map M.sub.1.sup.sub, g(.cndot.) is polyline map M.sub.2, .parallel.f-g.parallel..sup.2 is match accuracy, or deviation, between M.sub.2 and M.sub.1.sup.sub, and .alpha..parallel..DELTA.d.sub.1, . . . .DELTA.d.sub.k.parallel..sup.2 is overall length perturbation, where .alpha. is a regularization parameter controlling tradeoff between match accuracy and length modification .DELTA.d.sub.i; and choosing the choice with the lowest cost function; and aligning the global map and the local map at the one or more refined matches. 9. A method according to claim 8, further comprising: receiving the plurality of line segments for each of the global map and the local map; determining an arclength and an angle for each segment; and generating the polyline map for each map. 10. A method according to claim 8, further comprising: identifying each turn point of the global map and the local map; generating a submap of the global map with a length equal to the local map; comparing the submap and the local map at each of their respective turning points; determining a match error at each of the compared turning points; and identifying the compared turning points with the lowest match errors as candidate matches. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein the candidate matches are one of below a predetermined threshold, a set number, and a percentage of total determined match errors. 12. A method according to claim 8, wherein the two choices are adjust line segment length and adjust line segment structure. 13. A method according to claim 8, wherein the cost function comprises terms for match error, stretch potential, and implication on later segments. 14. A method according to claim 8, wherein the global map and local map are determined by one of a floor plan, manual surveying, and mobile robot navigation. 