A robotic cane may include a grip handle, a cane body extending from the grip handle at a first end, a motorized omni-directional wheel coupled to a second end of the cane body, a balance control sensor, and a controller module. The balance control sensor provides a balance signal corresponding to an orientation of the robotic cane. The controller module may receive the balance signal from the balance control sensor and calculate a balancing velocity of the motorized omni-directional wheel based at least in part on the balance signal and an inverted pendulum control algorithm. The controller module may further provide a drive signal to the motorized omni-directional wheel in accordance with the calculated balancing velocity. The calculated balancing velocity is a speed and direction of the motorized omni-directional wheel to retain the robotic cane in an substantially upright position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic cane comprising: a grip handle; a cane body extending from the grip handle at a first end of the cane body; a motorized omni-directional wheel coupled to a second end of the cane body; a balance control sensor, wherein the balance control sensor provides a balance signal corresponding to an orientation of the robotic cane; and a controller module, wherein the controller module: receives the balance signal from the balance control sensor; calculates a balancing velocity of the motorized omni-directional wheel based at least in part on the balance signal and an inverted pendulum control algorithm; and provides a drive signal to the motorized omni-directional wheel in accordance with the calculated balancing velocity, wherein the calculated balancing velocity relates to a speed and direction of the motorized omni-directional wheel to retain the robotic cane in a substantially upright position. 2. The robotic cane of claim 1 wherein: the controller module is further calculates a user weight projection provided by a user based at least in part on the balance signal and the inverted pendulum control algorithm, and provides a drive signal to the motorized omni-directional wheel in accordance with the user weight projection; the user weight projection corresponds to a desired user direction and speed of travel; and the drive signal controls the motorized omni-directional wheel such that the robotic cane travels at substantially the desired user direction and speed of travel. 3. The robotic cane of claim 1 wherein the inverted pendulum control algorithm comprises fuzzy control logic or H.sub..infin. logic control logic. 4. The robotic cane of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of retractable auxiliary supports, wherein the retractable auxiliary supports are in an engaged position when the robotic cane is operated in a supported mode such that the retractable auxiliary supports engage a supporting surface, and the retractable auxiliary supports are in an unengaged position when the robotic cane is operated in an unsupported mode such that the retractable auxiliary supports are disengaged from the supporting surface. 5. The robotic cane of claim 1 further comprising a grip force sensor associated with the grip handle for providing a grip force signal to the controller module in accordance with a grip force value applied to the grip handle, wherein the controller module: receives the grip force signal from the grip force sensor; compares the grip force value to a grip force threshold; and provides a fall prevention drive signal to the motorized omni-directional wheel if the grip force value exceeds the grip force threshold, wherein the fall prevention drive signal is determined at least in part on the grip force signal, the balance signal, and a feed-forward loop of the inverted pendulum control algorithm such that the motorized omni-directional wheel provides a counter force that is opposite from a user weight projection indicated by the balance control sensor. 6. The robotic cane of claim 5 wherein: the fall prevention drive signal causes the robotic cane to be orientated at an orientation angle that provides the counter force; and the robotic cane returns to a substantially upright position when the grip force value is below the grip force threshold. 7. The robotic cane of claim 1 wherein the controller module is programmed to provide the drive signal to the motorized omni-directional wheel such that the robotic cane autonomously follows a user within a predetermined distance. 8. A robotic cane comprising: a grip handle; a cane body extending from the grip handle at a first end of the cane body; a motorized wheel assembly comprising at least one wheel coupled to a second end of the cane body; a proximity detector, wherein the proximity detector provides a proximity signal corresponding to a position of a user with respect to the robotic cane; a controller module, wherein the controller module: receives the proximity signal from the proximity detector; calculates a distance of the robotic cane from the user based at least in part on the proximity signal; and provides a drive signal to the motorized wheel assembly such that the robotic cane follows the user at a predetermined distance; and a grip force sensor associated with the grip handle for providing a grip force signal to the controller module in accordance with a grip force value applied to the grip handle, wherein the motorized wheel assembly comprises a motorized omni-directional wheel; and the controller module: receives the grip force signal from the grip force sensor; compares the grip force value to a grip force threshold; and provides a fall prevention drive signal to the motorized omni-directional wheel if the grip force value exceeds the grip force threshold, wherein the fall prevention drive signal is determined at least in part on the grip force signal, a balance signal, and a feed-forward loop of an inverted pendulum control algorithm such that the motorized omni-directional wheel provides a counter force that is opposite from a user weight projection indicated by the balance control sensor. 9. The robotic cane of claim 8 wherein the proximity detector comprises an RFID tag reader operable to read an RFID tag associated with the user and indicate the position of the user with respect to the robotic cane. 10. The robotic cane of claim 8 further comprising a force input device, wherein the force input device provides a force signal corresponding to a magnitude and a direction of a force applied to the grip handle during an assist mode and the controller module: receives the force signal from the balance control sensor; calculates a user velocity based at least in part on the force signal; and provides a drive signal to the motorized wheel assembly in accordance with the calculated user velocity such that the robotic cane travels at substantially a desired user direction and a speed of travel while the robotic cane is operating in the assist mode. 11. The robotic cane of claim 8 further comprising a balance control sensor, wherein: the balance control sensor provides a balance signal corresponding to an orientation of the robotic cane; the motorized wheel assembly comprises an omni-directional wheel; and the controller module receives the balance signal from the balance control sensor and provides a drive signal to the motorized wheel assembly in accordance with the balance signal and an inverted pendulum control algorithm such that the robotic cane remains in an upright position. 12. The robotic cane of claim 8 wherein: the fall prevention drive signal causes the robotic cane to be orientated at an orientation angle that provides the counter force; and the robotic cane returns to a substantially upright position when the grip force value is below the grip force threshold. 13. A robotic cane comprising: a grip handle; a cane body extending from the grip handle at a first end of the cane body; a motorized omni-directional wheel coupled to a second end of the cane body; a balance control sensor, wherein the balance control sensor provides a balance signal corresponding to an orientation of the robotic cane; a grip force sensor associated with the grip handle for providing a grip force signal in accordance with a grip force value applied to the grip handle; and a controller module, wherein the controller module: receives the balance signal from the balance control sensor; monitors an orientation angle of the robotic cane based at least in part on the balance signal provided by the balance control sensor; receives the grip force signal from the grip force sensor; compares the grip force value to a grip force threshold; and provides a fall prevention drive signal to the motorized omni-directional wheel during a fall prevention mode in accordance with a feed-forward control loop of an inverted pendulum control algorithm if the grip force value exceeds the grip force threshold such that the motorized omni-directional wheel provides a counter force that is opposite from a user weight projection indicated by the balance control sensor. 14. The robotic cane of claim 13 wherein the balance control sensor samples the orientation of the robotic cane at a sampling frequency that is greater during the fall prevention mode than when the robotic cane is not operated during the fall prevention mode. 15. The robotic cane of claim 13 wherein: the fall prevention drive signal causes the robotic cane to be orientated at an orientation angle that provides the counter force; and the robotic cane returns to a substantially upright position when the grip force value is below the grip force threshold. 16. The robotic cane of claim 15 wherein the controller module is further operable to provide a drive signal to the motorized omni-directional wheel in accordance with the balance signal and a feedback loop of the inverted pendulum control algorithm such that the robotic cane remains in an upright position. 17. The robotic cane of claim 13 wherein the grip force sensor comprises a force-sensitive tactile sensor. 18. The robotic cane of claim 13 wherein: the controller module calculates the user weight projection provided by a user based at least in part on the balance signal and the inverted pendulum control algorithm, and provides a drive signal to the motorized omni-directional wheel in accordance with the user weight projection; the user weight projection corresponds to a desired user direction and speed of travel; and the drive signal controls the motorized omni-directional wheel such that the robotic cane travels at substantially the desired user direction and speed of travel. 19. The robotic cane of claim 13 wherein the controller module provides the drive signal to the motorized omni-directional wheel such that the robotic cane autonomously follows a user within a predetermined distance. 