An improved method and apparatus for extracting and handling samples for STEM analysis. Preferred embodiments of the present invention make use of a micromanipulator and a hollow microprobe probe using vacuum pressure to adhere the microprobe tip to the sample. By applying a small vacuum pressure to the lamella through the microprobe tip, the lamella can be held more securely and its placement controlled more accurately than by using electrostatic force alone. By using a probe having a beveled tip and which can also be rotated around its long axis, the extracted sample can be placed down flat on a sample holder. This allows sample placement and orientation to be precisely controlled, thus greatly increasing predictability of analysis and throughput.
Claims We claim as follows: 1. A method of extracting a lamella from a substrate comprising; placing the substrate with the lamella to be extracted on a moveable stage, the lamella being physically attached to the substrate; moving a microprobe into contact with the lamella, the microprobe comprising a hollow tube connected to a vacuum source and open at the microprobe tip; applying a vacuum through the microprobe tip so that the vacuum holds the sample against the microprobe tip; lifting the microprobe with attached sample away from the substrate, severing the attachment of the lamella to the substrate; moving the microprobe so that the sample is in contact with a desired position on a sample holder; moving the microprobe away from the released sample. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein moving the probe tip into contact with the lamella comprises moving the probe tip until it makes contact with the lamella and then moving the probe forward to push the sample and break any remaining connection between the lamella and the substrate. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein moving the microprobe so that the sample is in contact with a desired position on a sample holder comprises moving the microprobe so that the sample is in contact with a desired position on a sample holder and then turning off the vacuum through the microprobe tip so that the sample is released from the microprobe tip. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising applying a positive pressure through the microprobe after the sample is placed at the desired position on the sample holder. 5. The method of claim 1 in which the lamella has a substantially vertical sample face and in which moving a microprobe into contact with the lamella comprises: positioning the substrate relative to a microprobe having a cylindrical axis so that the cylindrical axis lies in a plane which is perpendicular to the sample face, said microprobe connected to a micromanipulator and mounted onto a probe stage that can rotate about the cylindrical axis of the probe, said microprobe having a generally flat tip which is beveled at an oblique tip angle with respect to the cylindrical axis of the microprobe; and said microprobe oriented so that the cylindrical axis of the microprobe is at an oblique probe angle with respect to the sample face and so that the beveled probe tip is substantially parallel to the sample face; and moving the microprobe so that the flat tip of the probe tip is in contact with the sample face. 6. The method of claim 5 in which moving the probe so that the sample is in contact with a desired position on a sample holder comprises: rotating the probe around its cylindrical axis through a first rotational angle so that the face of the beveled probe tip and the sample face are substantially parallel to the surface of a sample holder; positioning the probe so that the sample is generally above a desired position on the sample holder; and lowering the probe until the sample comes in contact with the surface of the sample holder. 7. The method of claim 5 in which the probe angle is 45 degrees, the tip angle is 45 degrees, and the first rotational angle is 180 degrees. 8. The method of claim 1 in which extracting the sample does not take place inside an ion beam system. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising, after placing the substrate with the lamella to be extracted on a moveable stage, moving the stage so that the approximate x-y coordinates of a lamella to be extracted are within the field of view of an optical microscope; directing a light source at the lamella at an acute angle relative to the substrate surface; rotating the stage so that the illumination from the light source is directed in a plane perpendicular to the vertical face of the lamella; and using computer-based image recognition software to identify the precise location of the lamella. 10. A method for extracting a sample from a substrate, the method comprising: mounting the substrate with the sample to be extracted on a moveable stage, the sample having a planar face to be used as a probe attachment site; positioning the substrate relative to a microprobe having a cylindrical axis so that the cylindrical axis lies in a plane which is perpendicular to the sample face, said microprobe connected to a micromanipulator and mounted onto a probe stage that can rotate about the cylindrical axis of the probe, said microprobe having a generally flat tip which is beveled at an oblique tip angle with respect to the cylindrical axis of the microprobe; and said microprobe oriented so that the cylindrical axis of the microprobe is at an oblique probe angle with respect to the substrate surface and so that the beveled probe tip is substantially parallel to the sample face; moving the microprobe so that the microprobe tip comes into contact with a vertical face on the sample, the sample being physically connected to the substrate; lifting the microprobe with attached sample away from the substrate, severing the connection between the sample and the substrate; rotating the probe around its cylindrical axis through a first rotational angle so that the face of the beveled probe tip and the sample face are substantially parallel to the surface of a sample holder; positioning the probe so that the sample is generally above a desired position on the sample holder; lowering the probe until the sample comes in contact with the sample holder; depositing the sample onto the sample holder; moving the probe away from the released sample. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said planar face is at a first sample angle relative to the substrate surface and wherein the combination of the tip angle and the probe angle equal the angle of the planar face. 12. The method of claim 10 further comprising applying a vacuum to the microprobe through an open microprobe tip so that the vacuum holds the sample against the microprobe tip. 13. The method of claim 10 further comprising, after placing the substrate with the sample to be extracted on a moveable stage, moving the stage so that the approximate x-y coordinates of the sample to be extracted are within the field of view of an optical microscope; directing a light source at the sample at an acute angle relative to the substrate surface; rotating the stage so that the illumination from the light source is directed in a plane perpendicular to the planar face of the sample; and using computer-based image recognition software to identify the precise location of the sample. 14. The method of claim 1 in which severing the attachment between the sample and the substrate does not take place inside an ion beam system. 15. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining if a lamella is present using a light source positioned at an oblique angle with respect to the substrate surface to illuminate the lamella. 