Methods include one or more of robotically positioning a cutting element on an earth-boring tool, using a power-driven device to move a cutting element on an earth-boring tool, and robotically applying a bonding material for attaching a cutting element to an earth-boring tool. Robotic systems are used to robotically position a cutting element on an earth-boring tool. Systems for orienting a cutting element relative to a tool body include a power-driven device for moving a cutting element on or adjacent the tool body. Systems for positioning and orienting a cutting element on an earth-boring tool include such a power-driven device and a robot for carrying a cutting element. Systems for attaching a cutting element to an earth-boring tool include a robot carrying a torch for heating at least one of a cutting element, a tool body, and a bonding material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of robotically positioning at least one element on an earth-boring tool, comprising: loading the at least one element in a fixture carried by a robot configured to move the at least one element in three-dimensional space; and executing computer code using a processor in an electronic control system at least partially controlling at least the robot to cause the robot to at least substantially automatically position the at least one element in an element pocket defined by at least one surface of a body of an earth-boring tool. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting the element to comprise a cutting element, and selecting the element pocket to comprise a cutting element pocket. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising moving the at least one cutting element in three-dimensional space about three or more axes of movement using the robot as the at least one cutting element is positioned in the cutting element pocket. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising moving the at least one cutting element in three-dimensional space about five or more axes of movement using the robot as the at least one cutting element is positioned in the cutting element pocket. 5. The method of claim 2, further comprising holding the body of the earth-boring tool with a positioner as the robot is caused to at least substantially automatically position the at least one cutting element in the cutting element pocket. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising providing five or more degrees of freedom in movement between the body of the earth-boring tool when the at least one cutting element is loaded in the fixture carried by the robot and the body of the earth-boring tool is held with the positioner. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein loading the at least one cutting element in the fixture carried by the robot comprises loading the at least one cutting element in a fixture carried by a robotic arm. 8. The method of claim 2, further comprising: using at least one sensor to sense at least one of a size, a location, and an orientation of the cutting element pocket; and modifying at least one variable related to the at least one of the size, the location, and the orientation of the cutting element pocket in the computer code in response to an electronic signal received by the electronic control system from the at least one sensor. 9. The method of claim 2, further comprising: storing a computer-aided design (CAD) file in memory of the electronic control system; and causing the electronic control system to execute an algorithm causing the electronic control system to reference data in the computer-aided design (CAD) file and modify a value of at least one variable in the computer code using the referenced data in the computer-aided design (CAD) file. 10. The method of claim 2, further comprising applying a bonding material to at least one of the at least one cutting element and the at least one surface of the body of the earth-boring tool defining the at least one cutting element pocket. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein applying the bonding material comprises applying a bonding material in a liquid state to at least one of the at least one cutting element and the at least one surface of the body of the earth-boring tool defining the at least one cutting element pocket. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein applying a bonding material in the liquid state comprises applying a molten metal alloy to at least one of the at least one cutting element and the at least one surface of the body of the earth-boring tool defining the at least one cutting element pocket. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein applying the bonding material comprises robotically applying the bonding material to at least one of the at least one cutting element and the at least one surface of the body of the earth-boring tool defining the at least one cutting element pocket. 14. The method of claim 2, further comprising using a power-driven device to move the at least one cutting element in the cutting element pocket. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising manipulating a position of the power-driven device in three-dimensional space on the robot. 16. The method of claim 14, further comprising using a sensor to sense a rotational position of the at least one cutting element in the cutting element pocket. 17. A method of attaching a cutting element to an earth-boring tool, comprising: robotically positioning at least one cutting element at least partially within a cutting element pocket defined by at least one surface of a body of an earth-boring tool; abutting a movable surface of a power-driven device against a surface of the at least one cutting element; moving the movable surface of the power-driven device to cause the at least one cutting element to move within the cutting element pocket; and applying a bonding material to at least one of the at least one cutting element and the at least one surface of the body of the earth-boring tool defining the at least one cutting element pocket. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein positioning the at least one cutting element at least partially within the cutting element pocket comprises positioning a generally cylindrical cutting element at least partially within the cutting element pocket. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein abutting a movable surface of a power-driven device against a surface of the at least one cutting element comprises abutting a cylindrical lateral surface of a wheel against a cylindrical lateral side surface of the at least one cutting element, and wherein moving the movable surface of the power-driven device comprises rotating the wheel about a rotational axis of the wheel. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein abutting a movable surface of a power-driven device against a surface of the at least one cutting element comprises abutting a surface of a belt against a cylindrical lateral surface of the at least one cutting element, and wherein moving the movable surface of the power-driven device comprises sliding the belt past the at least one cutting element. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein abutting a movable surface of a power-driven device against a surface of the at least one cutting element comprises contacting a rotatable device to a front cutting face of the at least one cutting element, and wherein moving the movable surface of the power-driven device comprises rotating the rotatable device about a rotational axis at least substantially aligned with a longitudinal axis of the at least one cutting element. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein moving the movable surface of the power-driven device comprises moving the movable surface using at least one of an electrical motor, a pneumatic motor, and a hydraulic motor. 23. The method of claim 17, further comprising attaching the power-driven device to a robot configured to move the power-driven device in three-dimensional space. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising moving the power-driven device in three-dimensional space about three or more axes of movement using the robot. 25. The method of claim 17, wherein applying the bonding material comprises robotically applying the bonding material to the at least one of the at least one cutting element and the at least one surface of the body of the earth-boring tool defining the cutting element pocket. 26. The method of claim 17, wherein abutting a movable surface of a power-driven device against a surface of the at least one cutting element comprises abutting the movable surface of the power-driven device against a peripheral edge of a front cutting face of the at least one cutting element. 27. A method of robotically positioning a cutting element on an earth-boring tool, comprising: robotically positioning at least one cutting element at least partially within a cutting element pocket defined by at least one surface of a body of an earth-boring tool; and using a power-driven device to move the at least one cutting element within the cutting element pocket. 28. The method of claim 27, further comprising applying bonding material to at least one of the at least one cutting element and the at least one surface of the body of the earth-boring tool defining the cutting element pocket. 29. The method of claim 28, further comprising applying the bonding material as the power-driven device moves the at least one cutting element within the cutting element pocket. 30. A system for robotically positioning a cutting element on an earth-boring tool, comprising: at least one robot; a fixture carried by the at least one robot and configured to hold at least one cutting element to be attached to a body of an earth-boring tool, the fixture comprising a magnetic device configured to magnetically engage with the at least one cutting element and a movable manipulator arm configured to hold the at least one cutting element in place adjacent the magnetic device and to facilitate removal of the at least one cutting element from the magnetic device when the fixture has placed the at least one cutting element into position adjacent the body of the earth-boring tool; and a control system for controlling the at least one robot. 31. The system of claim 30, further comprising a cutting element held by the fixture. 32. The system of claim 30, further comprising computer code stored in memory of the control system, the computer code causing the at least one robot to at least substantially automatically position the cutting element in a cutting element pocket defined by at least one surface of a body of an earth-boring tool when the computer code is executed by the control system. 33. The system of claim 30, further comprising at least one sensor for sensing at least one of a size, a position, and an orientation of a cutting element pocket defined by at least one surface of a body of an earth-boring tool, the at least one sensor being in electrical communication with the control system. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein the at least one sensor comprises at least one of a laser and a camera. 35. The system of claim 30, wherein the at least one robot comprises a robotic arm and is configured to move at least one cutting element held by the fixture in three-dimensional space about five or more axes of movement. 36. The system of claim 30, further comprising a positioner for holding a body of an earth-boring tool. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the positioner is configured to move a body of an earth-boring tool in three-dimensional space about two or more axes of movement. 38. A system for robotically positioning a cutting element on an earth-boring tool, comprising: at least one robot; a fixture carried by the at least one robot and configured to hold at least one cutting element to be attached to a body of an earth-boring tool; a power-driven device configured to rotate a cutting element positioned within a cutting element pocket defined by at least one surface of a body of an earth-boring tool when a movable surface of the power-driven device is abutted against the cutting element and the power-driven device is used to move the movable surface relative to the cutting element; and a control system for controlling the at least one robot. 39. A system for positioning and orienting a cutting element on an earth-boring tool, comprising: a device configured to hold a body of an earth-boring tool; a robot carrying a fixture configured to hold at least one cutting element to be attached to a body of an earth-boring tool; a control system for controlling the robot; and a power-driven device configured to move a cutting element positioned within a cutting element pocket defined by at least one surface of a body of an earth-boring tool when a movable surface of the power-driven device is abutted against the cutting element and the power-driven device is used to move the movable surface relative to the cutting element. 40. The system of claim 38, further comprising at least one sensor for sensing at least one of a size, a position, and an orientation of a cutting element pocket defined by at least one surface of a body of an earth-boring tool. 41. The system of claim 39, wherein the power-driven device is carried by the robot. 42. The system of claim 39, wherein the robot comprises an articulated robotic arm. 43. A system for attaching a cutting element to an earth-boring tool, comprising: a device configured to hold a body of an earth-boring tool; a robot carrying a fixture configured to hold at least one cutting element to be attached to a body of an earth-boring tool, the fixture comprising a magnetic device configured to magnetically engage with the at least one cutting element and a movable manipulator arm configured to hold the at least one cutting element in place adjacent the magnetic device and to facilitate removal of the at least one cutting element from the magnetic device when the fixture has placed the at least one cutting element into position adjacent the body of the earth-boring tool; a control system for controlling the robot; and an additional robot carrying a torch for heating at least one of a cutting element, a body of an earth-boring tool, and a bonding material for bonding a cutting element to a body of an earth-boring tool. 44. The system of claim 43, wherein the additional robot further carries a device for dispensing a bonding material for bonding a cutting element to a body of an earth-boring tool. 45. The system of claim 43, further comprising a power-driven device configured to move a cutting element positioned within a cutting element pocket defined by at least one surface of a body of an earth-boring tool when a movable surface of the power-driven device is abutted against the cutting element and the power-driven device is used to move the movable surface relative to the cutting element. 