A robotic medical system comprises a catheter having an elongated shaft with a plurality of flexible segments spaced apart along the catheter, and a drive unit coupled to the catheter. The catheter may have a plurality of cables respectively terminating at the flexible segments, in which case, the drive unit will be coupled to the plurality of cables. The robotic medical system further comprises a user interface remote from the drive unit and configured for generating at least one command, and an electric controller configured, in response to the command(s), for directing the drive unit to independently bend the flexible segments (e.g., three flexible segments).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic medical system, comprising: a support that is positionable relative to a patient table; a carriage assembly removably mounted to the support; a flexible guide shaft mounted on the carriage assembly and having a distal end configured for being disposed at a predetermined location in a patient's body, the carriage assembly comprising a plurality of actuating elements operatively coupled to a corresponding plurality of control elements extending through the flexible guide shaft; a distal tool coupled to the flexible guide shaft and configured for performing a medical procedure in the patient's body; and a drive unit operatively coupled to the flexible guide shaft through the carriage assembly to thereby control distal bending movement of the flexible guide shaft in at least one bending plane by selective actuation of one or more actuating elements. 2. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the support comprises a proximal end assembly configured for mounting to the patient table. 3. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the carriage assembly comprises at least one rail and a carriage slidably disposed on the at least one rail, and wherein the flexible guide shaft is coupled to the carriage. 4. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the at least one bending plane comprises a plurality of bending planes. 5. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the drive unit is operatively coupled to the distal tool through the carriage assembly to thereby control actuation of the distal tool. 6. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the drive unit further controls linear motion of flexible guide shaft relative to the support by actuating controlled linear movement of the carriage assembly relative to the support. 7. The robotic medical system of claim 1, further comprising a remote controller configured for directing the drive unit to control the movement of the flexible guide shaft in the at least one bending plane. 8. The robotic medical system of claim 7, wherein the remote controller has a user interface for receiving commands from a user, and wherein movements of the flexible guide shaft correspond to movements made at the user interface. 9. A robotic medical system, comprising: a support arm that is positionable relative to a patient table; a carriage assembly removably mounted to the support arm; a surgical instrument assembly mounted to the carriage assembly, the surgical instrument assembly comprising an elongate flexible outer shaft defining a working lumen, and an elongate flexible inner shaft at least partially disposed in the outer shaft lumen, the inner shaft configured for performing a medical procedure on a patient, the carriage assembly comprising a plurality of actuating elements operatively coupled to a corresponding plurality of control elements extending through the respective outer and inner shafts; a drive unit configured operatively coupled to the surgical instrument assembly via the carriage assembly to thereby independently control distal bending movement of the respective outer and inner shafts; and a remote controller configured for directing the drive unit to control the bending movements of the surgical instrument assembly by selective actuation of one or more actuating elements. 10. The robotic medical system of claim 9, wherein each of the outer and inner shafts is independently bendable in a plurality of bending planes. 11. The robotic medical system of claim 9, the inner shaft carrying a distal tool, and wherein the drive unit is further operatively coupled to the distal tool to thereby control actuation of the distal tool. 12. The robotic medical system of claim 9, wherein the drive unit further controls linear movement of the surgical instrument assembly relative to the support by actuating controlled linear movement of the carriage assembly relative to the support. 13. The robotic medical system of claim 9, wherein the remote controller has a user interface for receiving commands from a user, and wherein movements of the surgical instrument correspond to movements made at the user interface. 