An information storing device and an information processing device having a memory for registering a plurality of working modes at recording/reproduction and a switching circuit for selecting one of the plurality of working modes, which select the optimum working mode automatically or by an instruction of an operator according to power supply capacity of a device of higher rank to effect recording/reproduction.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A disk device, comprising: a CPU; a disk-shaped memory medium, a head for reading/writing signals from/to the disk-shaped memory medium, a head driving mechanism to drive the head, and a head driving circuit coupled to the head driving mechanism, the head driving circuit being controlled by the CPU to perform a plurality of seek modes, wherein the plurality of seek modes include a slow mode and a quick mode, the slow mode having a first drive current profile, the quick mode having a second drive current profile different from the first drive current profile, and wherein a graphical user interface (GUI) provided at a host computer allows a user to switch between the plurality of seek modes. 2. The disk device according to claim 1, wherein the maximum current of the second drive current profile is larger than the maximum current of the first drive current profile. 3. The disk device according to claim 1, wherein the second drive current profile has a shorter zero current time than that of the first drive current profile. 4. The disk device according to claim 1, wherein the head has a higher maximum velocity in the quick mode than in the slow mode. 5. The disk device according to claim 1, wherein the head reaches a maximum velocity in a shorter time in the quick mode than in the slow mode. 6. The disk device according to claim 1, wherein in response to a selection by the user, the CPU of the disk device receives from the host computer a corresponding command and selects a seek mode from the plurality of seek modes. 7. The disk device according to claim 6, wherein the selected seek mode is stored in a non-volatile manner. 8. The disk device according to claim 7, wherein the selected seek mode is stored inside the disk device. 9. The disk device according to claim 8, wherein the selected seek mode is stored on the surface of the disk-shaped memory medium. 10. The disk device according to claim 1, wherein the slow mode has a longer seek time than the quick mode. 11. The disk device according to claim 1, wherein the quick mode has a steeper acceleration than the slow mode. 12. The disk device according to claim 1, wherein the quick mode uses more power than the slow mode. 13. The disk device according to claim 1, wherein the head driving circuit has a current limiting circuit to limit the maximum current for the slow mode. 14. The disk device according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of seek modes are implemented by a control program stored in a non-volatile manner inside the disk device. 15. The disk device according to claim 14, further comprising a ROM, wherein the non-volatile manner storage includes storing at least part of the control program in the ROM. 16. The disk device according to claim 14, wherein the non-volatile manner storage includes storing at least part of the control program on the surface of the disk-shaped memory medium. 17. A computer, comprising: a disk device comprising: a CPU; a magnetic disk; a head for reading/writing signals from/to the magnetic disk; a head driving mechanism coupled to the head; and a head driving circuit coupled to the head driving mechanism, the head driving circuit being controlled by the CPU to perform a plurality of seek modes, wherein the plurality of seek modes include a slow mode and a quick mode, the slow mode having a first drive current profile, the quick mode having a second drive current profile different from the first drive current profile, and wherein a graphical user interface (GUI) is provided at a host computer for a user to switch between the plurality of seek modes. 18. The computer according to claim 17, wherein the maximum current of the second drive current profile is larger than the maximum current of the first drive current profile. 19. The computer according to claim 17, wherein the second drive current profile has a shorter zero current time than that of the first drive current profile. 20. The computer according to claim 17, wherein the head has a higher maximum velocity in the quick mode than in the slow mode. 21. The computer according to claim 17, wherein the head reaches a maximum velocity in a shorter time in the quick mode than in the slow mode. 22. The computer according to claim 17, wherein in response to a selection by the user, the host computer sends a corresponding command to the CPU of the disk device to select a seek mode from the plurality of seek modes. 23. The computer according to claim 22, wherein the selected seek mode is stored in a non-volatile manner. 24. The computer according to claim 23, wherein the selected seek mode is stored inside the disk device. 25. The computer according to claim 24, wherein the selected seek mode is stored on the surface of the disk-shaped memory medium. 26. The computer according to claim 17, wherein the slow mode has a longer seek time than the quick mode. 27. The computer according to claim 17, wherein the quick mode has a steeper acceleration than the slow mode. 28. The computer according to claim 17, wherein the quick mode uses more power than the slow mode. 29. The computer according to claim 17, wherein the head driving circuit has a current limiting circuit to limit the maximum current for the slow mode. 30. The computer according to claim 17, wherein the plurality of seek modes are implemented by a control program stored in a non-volatile manner inside the disk device. 31. The computer according to claim 30, wherein the disk device further comprises a ROM and the non-volatile manner storage includes storing at least part of the control program in the ROM. 32. The computer according to claim 30, wherein the non-volatile manner storage includes storing at least part of the control program on the surface of the disk-shaped memory medium. 