Circuits that solve stochastic problems and techniques for operating them. These natively stochastic circuits may produce samples from probability distributions of interest for particular stochastic problems, and may be combined together in any suitable way to yield potential solutions to stochastic problems. In some implementations, the stochastic circuits may generate samples from conditional probability distributions conditioned on input data provided to the stochastic circuits. The circuits may be constructed from multiple interconnected stochastic subcircuits such that a circuit may produce a sample from a joint probability distribution, or from a marginal distribution of a joint distribution. These circuits may be used to implement stochastic sampling algorithms to solve stochastic processes, and may include stochastic subcircuits that operate concurrently.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: zero or more input terminals; at least one output terminal from which is output samples from an overall conditional probability distribution conditioned on input received on the zero or more input terminals; and a plurality of stochastic subcircuits, each including zero or more input subterminals and at least one output subterminal, wherein each of the plurality of stochastic subcircuits is configured to produce from its at least one output subterminal samples from a conditional probability distribution conditioned on input received on the zero or more input subterminals, wherein the plurality of stochastic subcircuits are interconnected to form a stochastic circuit that produces samples from the overall conditional probability distribution, and wherein each of the plurality of stochastic subcircuits generates the samples based at least in part on the conditional probability distribution and a source of randomness. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the overall probability distribution is a joint probability distribution based on the conditional probability distributions of the plurality of stochastic subcircuits. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein samples generated by each of the plurality of stochastic subcircuits is output on the at least one output terminal to generate a sample from the joint probability distribution. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein samples generated by a subset of the plurality of stochastic subcircuits is output on the at least one output terminal to generate a sample from a marginal probability distribution of the joint probability distribution. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein one of the plurality of stochastic subcircuits is an output subcircuit that generates samples from the overall probability distribution, and the output subcircuit is coupled to the at least one output terminal to output the samples. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the samples generated by the output subcircuit are generated from a marginal distribution of the overall probability distribution, the marginal distribution being the conditional probability distribution of the output subcircuit conditioned on a sample generated by at least one other stochastic subcircuit. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein a second of the plurality of stochastic subcircuits is a second output subcircuit that generates samples from the overall probability distribution, and the second output subcircuit is coupled to the at least one output terminal to output the samples, wherein the samples output by the output subcircuit and the samples output by the second output subcircuit are samples from a marginal probability distribution of the overall probability distribution. 8. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the output subcircuit is directly coupled to the at least one output terminal. 9. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the output subcircuit is coupled to a deterministic evaluation circuit performing at least one evaluation operation to determine whether a sample generated by the output subcircuit is an acceptable sample, and wherein only samples determined to be acceptable samples are output on the at least one output terminal. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein input data received on at least one of the zero or more input terminals is provided to a first stochastic subcircuit such that the conditional probability distribution of the first stochastic subcircuit is conditioned on the input data. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein no input data is received and the overall conditional probability distribution is conditioned on nothing. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus includes no input terminals. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein an output subterminal of a first stochastic subcircuit is coupled to an input subterminal of a second stochastic subcircuit. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the second stochastic subcircuit generates samples according to a marginal distribution of a joint probability distribution based on the probability distributions of the first and second stochastic subcircuits. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein a connection is made between the first stochastic subcircuit and the second stochastic subcircuit based at least in part on configuration data received by the zero or more input terminals. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of stochastic subcircuits are interconnected by at least one deterministic circuit element. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the at least one deterministic circuit element includes a deterministic adder circuit. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the deterministic adder circuit is a logarithmic adder circuit. 19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the at least one deterministic circuit element includes a memory element. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein a combination of a stochastic subcircuit and the memory element forms a stochastic finite state machine. 21. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the memory element is coupled to an output of a first stochastic subcircuit to store a sample generated by the stochastic subcircuit, and a value of the sample stored by the memory element is fed back to the stochastic subcircuit. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a first stochastic subcircuit comprises: a plurality of stochastic circuit elements, wherein each of the stochastic circuit elements comprises: zero or more element input terminals, and at least one element output terminal, wherein each of the stochastic circuit elements generates samples from a conditional probability subdistribution conditioned on input received on the zero or more element input terminals, each sample being generated based on the conditional probability subdistribution and on a source of randomness, wherein the conditional probability distribution of the first stochastic circuit is a joint distribution based on the plurality of conditional probability subdistributions, and wherein the plurality of stochastic circuit elements are interconnected to form the first stochastic subcircuit that produces samples from a marginal distribution of the joint distribution. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the conditional probability distribution of the first stochastic subcircuit is a Binomial distribution. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein each of the plurality of stochastic circuit elements produces samples from a Bernoulli distribution. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the plurality of stochastic circuit elements are connected in parallel to a deterministic adder circuit that performs a sum operation on samples generated by each of the plurality of stochastic circuit elements to determine a sum. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the sum is output as a sample of the Binomial distribution of the first stochastic circuit. 27. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the zero or more input subterminals of the first stochastic circuit include a first input line specifying a number of stochastic circuit elements to be included in the first stochastic subcircuit and a second input line specifying a probability of success. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the number of stochastic circuit elements is an n parameter of a Binomial distribution, and the probability of success is a p parameter of a Binomial distribution, and the Binomial distribution is conditioned by the n and p parameters. 29. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein upon receipt of a value on the first input line, a number of stochastic circuit elements equal to the value are selected and interconnected to form a Binomial distribution, and each of the stochastic circuit elements is configured with a value received on the second input line to generate samples according to a Bernoulli distribution parameterized with the value. 30. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein each of the stochastic circuit elements includes a first element input terminal to receive a value specifying a likelihood of success for a Bernoulli probability distribution, and each of the stochastic circuit elements is configured to generate a sample from a probability distribution conditioned on the value. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the first stochastic subcircuit further comprises a plurality of deterministic circuit elements, and wherein the plurality of stochastic circuit elements and the plurality of deterministic circuit elements may be interconnected to form a desired probability distribution based on a configuration input. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the plurality of stochastic circuit elements and the plurality of deterministic circuit elements are interconnected to form a Gaussian distribution. 33. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: processing components to receive samples generated from the overall distribution circuit and perform at least one post-sampling processing action on the samples. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the at least one post-sampling processing action comprises aggregating samples and calculating probabilities, based on the samples, that particular values will be generated as samples. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the probability calculated by the processing components are output from the apparatus. 36. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the source of randomness is a pseudo-random number generator. 37. The apparatus of claim 36, wherein each of the plurality of stochastic subcircuits receives an individual value from the pseudo-random number generator. 38. The apparatus of claim 36, wherein each of the plurality of stochastic subcircuits is connected to a different pseudo-random number generator. 39. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of stochastic subcircuits are configured to implement a stochastic sampling algorithm. 40. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the stochastic sampling algorithm is a Monte Carlo sampling algorithm. 41. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the stochastic sampling algorithm is a rejection sampling algorithm. 42. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the stochastic sampling algorithm is an importance sampling algorithm. 43. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the stochastic sampling algorithm is a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm. 44. The apparatus of claim 43, wherein the MCMC algorithm is a Metropolis-Hastings algorithm. 45. The apparatus of claim 43, wherein the MCMC algorithm is a Gibbs sampling algorithm. 46. The apparatus of claim 45, wherein the Gibbs sampling algorithm is for a Chinese Restaurant Process mixture model. 47. The apparatus of claim 46, wherein each of the plurality of stochastic subcircuits implements a Gibbs transition kernel. 48. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein each of the plurality of stochastic subcircuits is associated with a node of a Markov Random Field (MRF). 49. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein interdependent nodes of the MRF are interconnected by connecting an output line of a first stochastic subcircuit for a first node with an input line of a second stochastic subcircuit for a second node, and connecting an output line of the second stochastic subcircuit with an input line of the first stochastic subcircuit. 50. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein stochastic subcircuits that are associated with independent nodes of the MRF are concurrently operated to produce samples in parallel. 51. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein the stochastic circuit is operated to produce data useful for solving an image analysis problem. 52. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein the stochastic circuit is operated to produce data useful for solving a tomography problem. 53. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein the stochastic circuit is operated to produce data useful for solving a stereovision problem. 54. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein each of the stochastic subcircuits implements a Gibbs transition kernel. 55. The apparatus of one of claims 47 and 54, wherein each stochastic subcircuit includes a memory element storing a precomputed conditional probability table by which potential samples are selected according to inputs received on the zero or more input subterminals. 56. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the stochastic circuit is adapted to produce samples that are indicative of events relating to a stochastic problem. 57. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein the stochastic problem is an image analysis problem. 58. The apparatus of claim 57, wherein the stochastic problem is a stereovision problem and the zero or more input lines receive data related to two or more images, and wherein samples generated by the stochastic circuit are indicative of a possible distance to an object observed in the two or more images. 59. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein the stochastic problem is a text analysis problem and the zero or more input lines receive data related to text to be analyzed. 60. The apparatus of claim 59, wherein the text analysis problem is determining a topic of a text document, and the samples generated by the stochastic circuit are indicative of a possible topic of the document. 61. The apparatus of claim 60, wherein the stochastic circuit implements a Gibbs sampling algorithm for Latent Dirichlet Allocation models for topic analysis. 62. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein the stochastic problem is a causal diagnosis problem. 63. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein the stochastic problem is a tomography problem. 64. The apparatus of claim 56, wherein the stochastic problem is an object tracking problem using sequential importance sampling with resampling. 65. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the stochastic circuit is implemented in a Field-Programmable Gate Array. 66. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the stochastic circuit is implemented in an Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC). 67. The apparatus of claim 66, wherein the ASIC is adapted to produce samples that are indicative of events relating to a specific stochastic problem. 68. The apparatus of claim 66, wherein the ASIC is reconfigurable to produce samples indicative of events relating to a plurality of stochastic problems. 69. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the stochastic circuit is implemented as a stochastic processor accepting input relating to a stochastic problem and/or a scenario and generating samples according to the overall probability distribution associated with the stochastic problem. 70. The apparatus of claim 69, wherein the stochastic processor is implemented as a co-processor in a computing environment including at least one deterministic processor. 71. An apparatus comprising: a stochastic circuit including zero or more input terminals and at least one output terminal, wherein the at least one stochastic circuit produces on the at least one output line samples from a conditional probability distribution conditioned on input data provided on the zero or more input terminals, wherein generation of the samples is based at least in part on the conditional probability distribution and on a source of randomness. 72. The apparatus of claim 71, wherein the source of randomness is a random number generator. 73. The apparatus of claim 71, receive input data that conditions the probability distribution. 74. The apparatus of claim 71, further comprising: a second stochastic circuit including zero or more second input terminals and at least one second output terminal, wherein the second stochastic circuit produces on the at least one second output line second samples from a second conditional probability distribution conditioned on second input data provided on the zero or more second input terminals, wherein generation of the samples is based at least in part on the second conditional probability distribution and on a second source of randomness. 75. The apparatus of claim 74, wherein the samples and the second samples form a sample from a joint probability distribution based on the conditional probability distribution and the second conditional probability distribution. 76. The apparatus of claim 74, wherein the samples generated by the stochastic circuit are provided as input to the second stochastic circuit on the zero or more second input terminals such that the second conditional probability distribution is conditioned on the samples. 77. The apparatus of claim 76, wherein the second samples are generated from a marginal distribution of a joint probability distribution based on the conditional probability distribution and the second conditional probability distribution. 78. The apparatus of claim 71, wherein the stochastic circuit comprises: a plurality of stochastic circuit elements, wherein each of the stochastic circuit elements comprises: zero or more element input terminals, and at least one element output terminal, wherein each of the stochastic circuit elements generates samples from a conditional probability subdistribution conditioned on input received on the zero or more element input terminals, each sample being generated based on the conditional probability subdistribution and on a source of randomness, wherein the conditional probability distribution of the first stochastic circuit is a joint distribution based on the plurality of conditional probability subdistributions, and wherein the plurality of stochastic circuit elements are interconnected to form the first stochastic subcircuit that produces samples from a marginal distribution of the joint distribution. 79. A method of operating a stochastic circuit to generate samples from an overall conditional probability distribution, the overall conditional probability distribution being related to a plurality of conditional probability subdistributions, the method comprising: concurrently operating two or more stochastic subcircuits such that each generate samples from a conditional probability subdistribution, wherein the concurrently operating comprises: generating, during a first iteration, a first sample from a first stochastic subcircuit, the first sample being generated according to a first conditional probability distribution, generating, during a second iteration, a second sample from the second stochastic subcircuit, the second sample being generated according to a second conditional probability distribution that is conditioned on the first sample, and generating, during the second iteration, a next sample from the first stochastic subcircuit; and generating a sample from an output subcircuit that is a sample from the overall conditional probability distribution. 80. The method of claim 1, further comprising: repeating the acts of concurrently operating, exchanging, and generating to generate a plurality of samples from the overall conditional probability distribution. 81. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing at least one processing action on the sample generated in the act of generating. 82. The method of claim 81, wherein the at least one processing action comprises aggregating the sample with previously-generated samples and calculating probabilities that values will be generated as samples. 83. The method of claim 79, wherein the act of generating is performed randomly based on a source of randomness. 84. The method of claim 83, wherein the source of randomness is a pseudo-random number generator, and generating a sample randomly comprises generating a sample based at least in part on a random number produced by the pseudo-random number generator. 85. The method of claim 79, further comprising: receiving input data; and providing the input data to a stochastic subcircuit such that the stochastic subcircuit generates samples from a conditional probability distribution conditioned at least in part on the input data. 86. The method of claim 79, further comprising: receiving configuration data relating to a desired probability distribution; and configuring the stochastic circuit to generate samples from the desired probability distribution by interconnecting the two or more stochastic subcircuits based at least in part on the configuration data. 87. The method of claim 79, further comprising: providing as an output of the stochastic circuit at least one value relating to a sample generated by the stochastic circuit. 88. The method of claim 87, wherein the at least one value comprises at least one sample generated by the stochastic circuit. 89. The method of claim 87, wherein the at least one value comprises a probability that a specific value will be generated as a sample by the stochastic circuit. 90. The method of claim 87, further comprising: determining a solution to a stochastic problem based at least in part on the at least one value provided in the act of outputting. 91. The method of claim 79, wherein operating the two or more stochastic subcircuits concurrently comprises: operating each of the two or more stochastic subcircuits according to a Gibbs transition kernel, such that the two or more stochastic subcircuits each generate a Markov chain of samples from the conditional probability subdistributions. 92. The method of claim 91, further comprising: assigning to a plurality of stochastic subcircuits a corresponding node in a Markov Random Field (MRF); and determining which of the nodes are independent of one another, wherein the two or more stochastic subcircuits that are operated concurrently are stochastic subcircuits associated with nodes that are determined to be independent. 93. The method of claim 92, further comprising: if it is determined that a first node of the MRF is interdependent on a second node of the MRF, configuring the stochastic circuit to reflect the interdependency by interconnecting a first stochastic subcircuit associated with the first node and a second stochastic subcircuit associated with the second node, wherein the interconnecting comprises coupling an output of the first stochastic subcircuit to an input of the second stochastic subcircuit and coupling an input of the second stochastic subcircuit to an input of the first stochastic subcircuit. 94. The method of claim 93, wherein the act of concurrently operating the two or more stochastic subcircuits comprises: concurrently operating the two or more stochastic subcircuits to carry out a Gibbs sampling algorithm. 95. The method of claim 79, wherein the act of concurrently operating the two or more stochastic subcircuits comprises: concurrently operating the two or more stochastic subcircuits to carry out a Metropolis-Hastings sampling algorithm. 96. The method of claim 79, wherein the act of concurrently operating the two or more stochastic subcircuits comprises: concurrently operating the two or more stochastic subcircuits to carry out a Markov Chain Monte Carlo sampling algorithm. 97. The method of claim 79, wherein the act of concurrently operating the two or more stochastic subcircuits comprises: concurrently operating the two or more stochastic subcircuits to carry out a rejection sampling algorithm. 98. The method of claim 79, wherein the act of concurrently operating the two or more stochastic subcircuits comprises: concurrently operating the two or more stochastic subcircuits to carry out an importance sampling algorithm. 99. The method of claim 79, wherein the samples may be used in solving a stereovision problem. 