This invention relates to a single wheel robot system and its control method. The robot is an intelligent self-control and thus self-balancing unicycle riding robot. The control method is the balance control method of the static imbalance unicycle robot. The single wheel robot includes mechanical body and control system; the body contains a single wheel in the substructure which can rotate around for balance; the control system comprises state sensors, motion controller, servo-driven controllers, and a power system. Among them, the motion controller receive signals from the state sensors, in accordance with control procedures for processing of the received signal, thereby issuing control instructions. The servo drive controller receives the control instructions and controls the motors of the robot to adjust posture to be balanced.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A single wheel robot system, including a mechanical body and a control system; the mechanical body including a metal frame rigid body, a modular robotic head and neck which comprises two-dimensional PTZ, and a detachable robot arm, an end of the detachable arm being a multi-fingered robot hand; wherein upper balance components and lower balance components constitute a balance control structure, the lower balance components include a balanced single wheel and a single wheel motor, the upper balance components include an inertia flywheel and a flywheel motor; the control system comprising state sensors, a motion controller and two servo-drive controllers and a power supply system, wherein the state sensors include attitude sensors and speed sensors; the motion controller receives a signal from the state sensors and, then, issues a control instruction through a control procedure and the signal; the two servo-drive controllers receive the control instruction and, respectively, through the single wheel motor and the flywheel motor, control rotation of the single wheel and the inertia flywheel to balance the robot; wherein a shaft of the inertia flywheel is pointing at forward and backward direction; an adjustable debugging support is designed around the single wheel, all around the debug support is a removable caster. 2. The single wheel robot system of claim 1, wherein the attitude sensor is an inclinometer or a gyroscope; the speed sensor is encoders installed on the single wheel motor and the flywheel motor; the motion controller is a MTS2812 digital signal processor card; the servo-drive controller is an ACJ-55-18 servo drive; the power supply system comprises a power supply board and a rechargeable Lithium batteries module. 3. The single wheel robot system of claim 2, wherein the gyroscope has a temperature sensor for temperature compensation. 4. The single wheel robot system of claim 1, wherein the attitude sensor is an inclinometer or a gyroscope; the speed sensor is encoders installed on the single wheel motor and the flywheel motor; the motion controller is a MTS2812 digital signal processor card; the servo-drive controller is an ACJ-55-18 servo drive; the power supply system comprises a power supply board and a rechargeable Lithium batteries module. 5. The single wheel robot system of claim 4, wherein the gyroscope has a temperature sensor for temperature compensation. 6. The single wheel robot system of claim 4, wherein perception sensors installed in the robot's head are a dual-camera vision sensor, MIC constituting a hearing sensors and infrared sensors located between the pairs of cameras, and sonar sensors installed in the robot waist, remote control receiver; an auxiliary microcontroller (MCU) receives signals from sonar sensors, remote control sender and embedded computer (EPC) system receives signals from the vision sensor, the infra-red sensor and the auditory sensor; the main controller-EPC can receive information of the motion controller-DSP and auxiliary controller-MCU information, and provide control instructions for the motion controller and pass voice command the speaker. 