Device and method for needle penetrating and filling a chamber with a predetermined substance, and hermetically resealing a resulting needle hole in the device by applying radiation thereto. The needle penetrable and resealable portion defines a predetermined wall thickness in an axial direction thereof, and may include a thermoplastic that substantially prevents the formation of particles released into the chamber from the needle penetrable and resealable portion during penetration by and withdrawal of the needle. Such thermoplastic may include a predetermined amount of pigment that allows the thermoplastic to substantially absorb laser radiation at a predetermined wavelength, substantially prevent the passage of radiation through the predetermined wall thickness thereof, and hermetically seal a needle aperture formed in the needle penetration region thereof in a predetermined time period.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: resealing a resealable member for sealing a substance within a chamber of a device, wherein the resealable member comprises (i) a base portion formed of a first material compatible with the substance and defining a substance-exposed surface for fluid communication with the chamber, wherein the base portion further (a) is penetrable by an injection or filling member for introducing substance therethrough into the chamber and (b) has a hole therein resulting from penetration of an injection or filling member therein; and (ii) a resealing portion overlying the base portion and formed of a second material that, upon application of radiation or energy from a radiation or energy source thereto after removing the injection or filling member from the base portion, forms a gas-tight seal between the ambient atmosphere and the substance in the chamber, and wherein the device is fillable in a filling assembly including (i) an injection or filling member for penetrating the base portion and introducing a substance therethrough and into the chamber, (ii) a substance source coupled in fluid communication with the injection or filling member for introducing the substance therethrough and into the chamber, and (iii) a radiation or energy source for applying radiation or energy to the resealing portion; wherein the resealing step further comprises applying radiation or energy from the radiation or energy source to the resealing portion. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the resealing portion is formed of at least one of a thermoplastic and an elastomeric material. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the base portion is substantially infusible in response to the application of the radiation or energy thereto. 4. A method as defined in claim 3, wherein the base portion comprises vulcanized rubber. 5. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of providing the resealable member. 6. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising mounting the resealable member on the device, wherein the substance-exposed surface is in fluid communication with the chamber, and forming a fluid tight seal between the chamber and the ambient atmosphere. 7. A method as defined in claim 6, further comprising: penetrating the base portion with an injection or filling member coupled in fluid communication a substance source; introducing the substance through the base portion and into the chamber; withdrawing the injection or filing member from the base portion; and applying the radiation or energy after withdrawing the injection or filing member. 8. A method as defined in claim 7, wherein the injection or filling member defines a first fluid passageway coupled in fluid communication with the substance source for introducing the substance therethrough and into the chamber, and a second fluid passageway extending adjacent to the first fluid passageway for allowing the passage of gas out of the chamber upon introducing the substance therein. 9. A method as defined in claim 7, wherein the step of applying radiation or energy comprises directing a laser onto the resealing portion for sealing the resealable member and forming the gas-tight seal. 10. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the step of applying radiation or energy comprises applying the radiation or energy at least one of (i) at a predetermined power; (ii) for a predetermined time; and (iii) at a predetermined wavelength to form the seal. 11. A method comprising: resealing a resealable member for sealing a substance within a chamber of a device, wherein the resealable member comprises a body defining a predetermined wall thickness in an axial direction thereof, a base portion formed of a first material compatible with the substance and defining a substance-exposed surface for fluid communication with the chamber, a resealing portion overlying the base portion, and defining a penetrable region that is penetrable with an injection or filling member to form an aperture therethrough and has an aperture therein resulting from penetration of an injection or filling member therein, and is resealable to hermetically seal the aperture by applying laser radiation from a laser source at a predetermined wavelength and power thereto, wherein the penetrable region defines a predetermined color and opacity that substantially absorbs the laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength and causes the laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength and power to hermetically seal the aperture formed in the penetrable region thereof, and the predetermined wall thickness substantially prevents the passage of the radiation therethrough, and wherein the device is fillable in a filling assembly including an injection or filling member for penetrating the resealable member and introducing a substance through the resealable member and into the chamber, a substance source coupled in fluid communication with the injection or filling member for introducing the substance therethrough and into the chamber, and a laser source for applying laser radiation to the resealable member; wherein the resealing step further comprises applying laser radiation to the resealable member at the predetermined wavelength and power. 12. A method as defined in claim 11, further comprising the step of providing the resealable member. 13. A method as defined in claim 11, further comprising mounting the resealable member on the device, wherein the substance-exposed surface is in fluid communication with the chamber, and forming a fluid tight seal between the chamber and the ambient atmosphere. 14. A method as defined in claim 13, further comprising: penetrating the penetrable region of the resealable member with an injection or filling member coupled in fluid communication a substance source; introducing the substance through the resealable member and into the device; withdrawing the injection or filing member from the penetrable region; and applying laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength and power thereto after withdrawing the injection or filing member. 15. A method as defined in claim 14, further comprising sterilizing the penetrable region of the resealable member with radiation from a radiation source prior to penetrating the resealable member with the injection or filling member. 16. A method as defined in claim 15, wherein the radiation source is a laser source. 17. A method as defined in claim 16, wherein the radiation source sterilizes the penetrable region of the resealable member within a cycle time of approximately 1/2 second. 18. A method as defined in claim 14, wherein the introducing step comprises introducing the substance into the chamber through a first fluid passageway extending through the injection or filling member, and further comprises allowing fluid to flow out of the chamber through a second fluid passageway. 19. A method as defined in claim 18, wherein the second fluid passageway is defined by the injection or filling member. 20. A method as defined in claim 14, wherein the substance source contains a preservative-free medicament, and the injection or filling member is adapted to introduce the preservative-free medicament through the resealable member and into the chamber. 21. A method as defined in claim 14, wherein the injection or filling member is axially alignable with the penetrable region of the resealable member for penetrating the resealable member and introducing the substance into the chamber. 22. A method as defined in claim 14, further comprising providing a sealed, empty device ready for filling in the filling assembly, wherein the sealed, empty device defines an opening, the resealable member covering the opening, and a member securing the resealable member to the device. 23. A method as defined in claim 22, further comprising sterilizing the sealed, empty device by applying radiation thereto. 24. A method as defined in claim 23, wherein the step of applying radiation comprises applying radiation from a radiation source. 25. A method as defined in claim 24, wherein the radiation source is a laser source for transmitting radiation at a predetermined wavelength and power onto the penetrable region of the resealable member of the sealed, empty device for a predetermined cycle time to sterilize a surface of the penetrable region of the resealable member prior to introducing the injection or filling member therethrough. 26. A method as defined in claim 25, wherein the predetermined cycle time is approximately 1/2 second. 27. A method as defined in claim 14, wherein the substance comprises a preservative-free medicament. 28. A method as defined in claim 11, wherein the device is a vial. 29. A method comprising: resealing a resealable member for sealing a substance within a chamber of a device, wherein the resealable member comprises (i) a base portion formed of a first material compatible with the substance and defining a substance-exposed surface for fluid communication with the chamber, wherein the base portion further (a) is penetrable by an injection or filling member for introducing substance therethrough into the chamber and (b) has a hole therein resulting from penetration of an injection or filling member therein; and (ii) a resealing portion overlying the base portion and formed of a second material that, upon application of radiation or energy from a radiation or energy source thereto after removing the injection or filling member from the base portion, forms a gas-tight seal between the ambient atmosphere and the substance in the chamber, and wherein the device is fillable in a filling assembly including (i) an injection or filling member for penetrating the base portion and introducing a substance therethrough and into the chamber, (ii) a substance source coupled in fluid communication with the injection or filling member for introducing the substance therethrough and into the chamber, and (iii) a radiation or energy source for applying radiation or energy to the resealing portion; wherein the resealing step further comprises applying radiation or energy from the radiation or energy source to the resealing portion to seal the penetration in the base portion. 30. A method as defined in claim 29, wherein the step of applying radiation or energy comprises applying the radiation or energy at least one of (i) at a predetermined power; (ii) for a predetermined time; and (iii) at a predetermined wavelength. 