An improved interface between the surgeon and an endoscope system for laparoscopic surgery, holding a laparoscopic came and/or controlling an automated endoscope assistant includes at least one wireless transmitter with at least one operating key (12a). at least one wireless receiver (11), at least one conventional laparoscopy computerized system (15) loaded with conventional surgical instrument spatial location software, and conventional automated assistant maneuvering software, software loaded onto to the conventional laparoscopy system that enables a visual response to the depression of at least one key on the wireless transmitter as well as an interface with the conventional automated assistant maneuvering software so as to achieve movement of the endoscope, and at least one video screen (30).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A camera holder for use in laparoscopic surgery, comprising: a. a pivoting support adapted to be pivotally attached to an endoscope; said pivoting support being for enabling said endoscope to pivot around said pivoting support; and, b. a mechanism for moving said pivoting support independently in two arc-shaped paths, said mechanism mechanically connected to said pivoting support, thereby enabling said endoscope to rotate around an insertion point into a body of a subject; said endoscope pivotally attached to said camera holder can pivot at said insertion point independent of the distance between said pivoting support and said insertion point, wherein said mechanism for moving said pivoting support independently in said two arc-shaped paths, moves said pivoting support in two planes along an arc shaped guide disposed within an arc shaped housing in which said mechanism moves said pivoting support, said arc shaped housing comprising a base, said base comprising a housing containing a lead screw (15) constrained to remain in one position, rotation of said lead screw moving a nut (10) through which the screw is threaded moving the nut; said moving nut physically connected to a gimbal (50) with links (20) adapted to transfer linear movement of the nut to said gimbal resulting in movement of said gimbal back and forth along the arc shaped guide, whereby a sliding degree of freedom is obtained. 2. The camera holder according to claim 1, further comprising: a. a housing (309) attachable to an endoscope via said pivoting support, said housing comprising: i. at least one zoom mechanism; ii. at least one endoscope rotation mechanism; and, b. at least one sliding degree of freedom (305). 3. The camera holder according to claim 2, wherein said camera holder additionally comprises: a. a motor house (301); b. means adapted to transmit movement to said zoom mechanism; c. means adapted to transmit movement to said endoscope rotation mechanism; d. means adapted to transmit movements to said sliding degree of freedom. 4. The camera holder according to claim 3, wherein said camera holder additionally comprises a quick release handle adapted to disassemble said endoscope out of said housing without changing any of said degrees of freedom. 5. The camera holder according to claim 1, wherein said camera holder additionally comprises (a) at least one adjustable arm; and (b) a basis comprising at least one motor; wherein said adjustable arm couples said camera holder and said basis. 6. The camera holder of claim 1, wherein said mechanism for moving said pivoting support in said two arc-shaped paths comprises a curved guide for guiding said pivoting support in a first arc-shaped path and a force source (503) for moving said pivoting support in a second arc-shaped path. 7. The camera holder of claim 6, wherein said second arc-shaped path is orthogonal to said first arc-shaped path. 8. The camera holder of claim 6, wherein said pivoting support includes at least one gimbal. 