Actuator elements such as cables or push rods in an instrument are used for manipulating an end effector or distal end of the instrument. Each actuator element extends within a tubular housing and either the tubular housing is axially rotated about the actuator element or the actuator element is axially rotated within the tubular housing to reduce at least one force opposing an axial force exerted through or movement of the actuator element.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: an instrument having an end effector, a first actuator element coupled to the end effector, and a first housing through which the first actuator element extends while in physical contact with an inner surface of the first housing; at least one actuator mechanically coupled to at least one of the first actuator element and the first housing; and a processor configured to command the at least one actuator to provide relative rotational motion between the first actuator element and the first housing about a longitudinal axis of the actuator element when the first actuator element is moving in a first axial direction along the longitudinal axis of the first actuator element. 2. The robotic system according to claim 1, wherein the first actuator element comprises a cable and the first housing is tubular in shape. 3. The robotic system according to claim 1, wherein the first actuator element comprises a push rod and the first housing is tubular in shape. 4. The robotic system according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to command the at least one actuator to provide the relative rotational motion between the first actuator element and the first housing at a tangential velocity of the axial rotation that is greater than a moving velocity of the first actuator element in the first axial direction. 5. The robotic system according to claim 1, wherein the end effector has a first movable member, and wherein an axial force exerted through the first actuator element results in a force being applied by the first movable member when the first actuator element is actuating the end effector. 6. The robotic system according to claim 5, wherein the first movable member comprises a gripping member. 7. The robotic system according to claim 5, wherein the first movable member comprises a cutting member. 8. The robotic system according to claim 5, wherein the instrument has a shaft through which the first housing extends, wherein the first movable member of the end effector is coupled to the first actuator element at a distal end of the shaft, and wherein the at least one actuator includes a linear actuator that is mechanically coupled to the first actuator element at a proximal end of the shaft. 9. The robotic system according to claim 8, wherein the at least one actuator includes a rotary actuator that is mechanically coupled to the first housing at the proximal end of the shaft for rotating the first housing relative to the first actuator element. 10. The robotic system according to claim 8, wherein the at least one actuator includes a rotary actuator that is mechanically coupled to the first actuator element at the proximal end of the shaft for rotating the first actuator element relative to the first housing. 11. The robotic system according to claim 8, wherein the shaft, the first housing, and the first actuator element are flexible. 12. The robotic system according to claim 1, wherein the instrument has a second actuator element coupled to the end effector, wherein the instrument has a second housing through which the second actuator element extends while in physical contact with an inner surface of the second housing, and wherein the processor is configured to command the at least one actuator to provide relative rotational motion between the second actuator element and the second housing about a longitudinal axis of the second actuator element at least while the second actuator element is moving in a second axial direction along a longitudinal axis of the second actuator element. 13. The robotic system according to claim 12, wherein the processor commands the at least one actuator to provide the relative rotational motion between the second actuator element and the second housing at a tangential velocity of the axial rotation that is greater than a moving velocity of the second actuator element in the second axial direction. 14. The robotic system according to clam 13, wherein the at least one actuator is configured to inhibit rotation of the first and second actuator elements respectively about the longitudinal axes of the first and second actuator elements. 15. The robotic system according to claim 1, further comprising: an input device; wherein the processor is configured to command the at least one actuator to actuate the end effector in response to user manipulation of the input device by commanding the at least one actuator to move the first actuator element in the first axial direction. 16. The robotic system according to claim 1, wherein the instrument has a friction reducing element disposed between the first housing and the first actuator element. 17. The robotic system according to claim 16, wherein the friction reducing element comprises a lubricant material. 