An integrated processing tool is described comprising a full-wafer processing module and a combinatorial processing module. Chemicals for use in the combinatorial processing module are fed from a delivery system including a set of first manifolds. An output of each first manifold is coupled to at least one mixing vessel. An output of each mixing vessel feeds more than one of a set of second manifolds. An output of each set of second manifolds feeds one of multiple site-isolated reactors of the combinatorial processing module.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An integrated processing system comprising: a full-wafer processing module; and a combinatorial processing module, wherein chemicals for use in the combinatorial processing module are fed from a delivery system including a set of first manifolds, an output of each manifold of the set of the first manifolds being coupled to at least one mixing vessel, an output of the at least one mixing vessel feeding more than one second manifold of a set of second manifolds, an output of each manifold of the set of the second manifolds feeding one of a plurality of site-isolated reactors of the combinatorial processing module. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the chemicals for use in the full-wafer processing module are fed from a set of third manifolds. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the chemicals for use in the full-wafer processing module are fed from the delivery system. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the chemicals for use in the full-wafer processing module are fed from the set of the first manifolds. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the chemicals for use in the full-wafer processing module are fed from the at least one mixing vessel. 6. The system of claim 1, comprising a controller coupled to the full-wafer processing module and the combinatorial processing module. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to control processing of a substrate by the full-wafer processing module using at least one first set of processes. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to control processing of a substrate by the combinatorial processing module using at least one second set of processes. 9. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to control processing of a substrate by the full-wafer processing module using at least one first set of processes and then by the combinatorial processing module using at least one second set of processes. 10. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to control processing of a substrate by the combinatorial processing module using at least one second set of processes and then by the full-wafer processing module using at least one first set of processes. 11. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to control one or more process of each of the full-wafer processing module and the combinatorial processing module using at least one parameter of the process. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the parameter includes one or more of time, temperature, pH, and volume of a reactor containing the process. 13. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to flow chemicals to the site-isolated reactors using one or more of serial, rapid serial, serial/parallel, and parallel delivery. 14. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to serially flow the chemicals to each site-isolated reactor of a first set of the plurality of site-isolated reactors. 15. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to serially flow the chemicals to each site-isolated reactor of the plurality of site-isolated reactors. 16. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to flow in parallel the chemicals to each site-isolated reactor of a first set of the plurality of site-isolated reactors and a second set of the plurality of site-isolated reactors. 17. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to flow in parallel the chemicals to each site-isolated reactor of the plurality of site-isolated reactors. 18. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to serially flow the chemicals to each site-isolated reactor of a first set of the plurality of site-isolated reactors and to flow in parallel the chemicals to each site-isolated reactor of a second set of the plurality of site-isolated reactors. 