This invention relates to a robotic exoskeleton comprising mechanical linkages that couple to one or more selected joints of a limb of a subject. The robotic exoskeleton may be provided with means for obtaining data respecting angular position, torque, and/or acceleration of at least one of the joints or the links of the mechanical linkages, and may be used for assessing, studying, diagnosing a deficit, and/or treating an impairment in sensorimotor function of a limb of a subject.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic exoskeleton, comprising: a first mechanical linkage adapted to couple to a first selected joint of a limb of a subject, the first mechanical linkage including links for said coupling to the first selected joint, with at least one joint having articulation about an axis; and limb attaching means for attaching the limb to the linkage; wherein the first mechanical linkage defines a virtual joint having an axis that is not located on the first mechanical linkage; wherein the virtual joint is coupled to the first selected joint of the limb when the limb is attached to the first mechanical linkage; wherein the first mechanical linkage is not located on or along an axis of the first selected joint of the limb when the limb is attached to the linkage; wherein the first mechanical linkage includes a second joint that is not located on an axis of the first selected joint of the limb when the limb is attached to the linkage; and wherein the first mechanical linkage includes at least two links that couple the virtual joint to the second joint of the mechanical linkage. 2. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 1, wherein the first mechanical linkage comprises a plurality of links interconnected for articulation so as to define two four-bar structures, the two four-bar structures sharing at least portions of two links, one said four bar structure having a virtual link defined between two corners, the two corners fixed to ground. 3. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 2, wherein at least one of the four-bar structures is a parallelogram. 4. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 1, wherein the first mechanical linkage comprises two or more links and at least one cable. 5. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 1, wherein the first mechanical linkage comprises: a curved track; a carriage associated with the curved track; and two or more links interconnected for articulation and connected at one point to the carriage and at another point to a fixed location relative to the curved track. 6. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 1, further comprising at least one motor for performing at least one of moving the first mechanical linkage and resisting movement of the first mechanical linkage. 7. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 1, further comprising: a second mechanical linkage that couples to a second selected joint of the limb of the subject, the second mechanical linkage including links for coupling the second mechanical linkage to the second selected joint of the limb, with at least one joint having articulation about an axis; wherein a joint of the second mechanical linkage is located on or along an axis of the second selected joint of the limb. 8. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 7, wherein one or more links of the first mechanical linkage is shared with one or more links of the second mechanical linkage. 9. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 7, wherein the first mechanical linkage comprises a curved track, a carriage associated with the curved track, and two or more links interconnected for articulation and connected at one point to the carriage and at another point to a fixed location relative to the curved track; and the second mechanical linkage comprises a plurality of links interconnected with pulleys and cables for articulation. 10. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 7, wherein articulation of the exoskeleton is within a plane. 11. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 7, further comprising: a third mechanical linkage that couples to a third selected joint of the limb of the subject, the third mechanical linkage including links for coupling the third mechanical linkage to the third selected joint, with at least one joint having articulation about an axis; wherein a joint of the third mechanical linkage is located on or along an axis of the third selected joint of the limb. 12. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 11, wherein two or more of the first mechanical linkage, the second mechanical linkage, and the third mechanical linkage share one or more links. 13. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 11, wherein: the first mechanical linkage comprises a curved track, a carriage associated with the curved track, and two or more links interconnected for articulation and connected at one point to the carriage and at another point to a fixed location relative to the curved track; the second mechanical linkage comprises a plurality of links interconnected with pulleys and cables for articulation; and the third mechanical linkage comprises a plurality of links interconnected with pulleys and cables for articulation. 14. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 11, wherein articulation of the exoskeleton is within a plane. 15. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 1, further comprising: a second mechanical linkage that couples to the first selected joint of the limb of the subject, the first and second mechanical linkages providing two degrees of freedom to the first selected joint; or a second mechanical linkage that couples to the first selected joint of the limb of the subject, and a third mechanical linkage that couples to the first selected joint of the limb of the subject, the first, second, and third mechanical linkages providing three degrees of freedom to the first selected joint; wherein the second mechanical linkage includes links for coupling the second mechanical linkage to the first selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a second axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb; and wherein the third mechanical linkage includes links for coupling the third mechanical linkage to the first selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a third axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb. 16. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 15, further comprising one of: (i) a third mechanical linkage that couples to a second selected joint of the limb of the subject; (ii) a third mechanical linkage that couples to a second selected joint of the limb of the subject and a fourth mechanical linkage that couples to the second selected joint of the limb of the subject, the third and fourth mechanical linkages providing two degrees of freedom to the second selected joint; and (iii) a third mechanical linkage that couples to a second selected joint of the limb of the subject, a fourth mechanical linkage that couples to the second selected joint of the limb of the subject, and a fifth mechanical linkage that couples to the second selected joint of the limb of the subject, the third, fourth, and fifth mechanical linkages providing three degrees of freedom to the second selected joint; wherein the second mechanical linkage includes links for coupling the second mechanical linkage to the first selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a second axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb; wherein the third mechanical linkage includes links for coupling the third mechanical linkage to the second selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a first axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb; wherein the fourth mechanical linkage includes links for coupling the fourth mechanical linkage to the second selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a second axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb; and wherein the fifth mechanical linkage includes links for coupling the fifth mechanical linkage to the second selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a third axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb. 17. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 16, further comprising: a sixth mechanical linkage that couples to a third selected joint of the limb of the subject; wherein the sixth mechanical linkage includes links for coupling the sixth mechanical linkage to the third selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to an axis of rotation of the third selected joint of the limb. 18. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 15, wherein at least one of the first mechanical linkage, the second mechanical linkage, and the third mechanical linkage comprises a curved track, a carriage associated with the curved track, and two or more links interconnected for articulation and connected at one point to the carriage and at another point to a fixed location relative to the curved track. 19. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 15, wherein two or more of the first mechanical linkage, the second mechanical linkage, and the third mechanical linkage share one or more links. 20. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 16, wherein at least one of the first mechanical linkage, the second mechanical linkage, the third mechanical linkage, the fourth mechanical linkage, and the fifth mechanical linkage comprises a curved track, a carriage associated with the curved track, and two or more links interconnected for articulation and connected at one point to the carriage and at another point to a fixed location relative to the curved track. 21. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 16, wherein two or more of the first mechanical linkage, the second mechanical linkage, the third mechanical linkage, the fourth mechanical linkage, and the fifth mechanical linkage share one or more links. 22. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 1, further comprising means for obtaining data respecting at least one of angular position, torque, and acceleration of at least one of the joints or the links of the mechanical linkage. 23. The robotic exoskeleton of claim 15, wherein the exoskeleton can be configured for motion only within a plane. 24. A robotic exoskeleton, comprising: a first mechanical linkage that couples to a first selected joint of a limb of a subject, the first mechanical linkage including at least two links for said coupling to the first selected joint and having articulation about a first axis that corresponds to an axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb; and limb attaching means for attaching the limb to the linkage; wherein the first axis of rotation of the first mechanical linkage is substantially collinear with the axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb; wherein a second axis of rotation of the first mechanical linkage is substantially collinear with an axis of rotation of a second selected joint of the limb, the second selected joint of the limb being the next joint which is distal or proximal to the first selected joint of the limb; and wherein a distance between the first and second axes of rotation of the first mechanical linkage is variable and proper performance of the mechanical linkage is maintained without adjusting length of links of the mechanical linkage. 25. A robotic exoskeleton, comprising: the first mechanical linkage of claim 1; and a second mechanical linkage adapted to couple to a second selected joint of the limb of the subject, the second mechanical linkage including at least two links for coupling the second mechanical linkage to the second selected joint of the limb and having articulation about a second axis that corresponds to an axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb; wherein the second axis of rotation of the second mechanical linkage is substantially collinear with the axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb; wherein a third axis of rotation of the second mechanical linkage is substantially collinear with an axis of rotation of a third selected joint of the limb, the third selected joint of the limb being the next joint which is distal or proximal to the second selected joint of the limb; and wherein a distance between the second and third axes of rotation of the second mechanical linkage is variable and proper performance of the second mechanical linkage is maintained without adjusting length of links of the second mechanical linkage. 