A semiconductor wafer metrology technique comprising performing atmospheric buoyancy compensated weighing of a wafer, in which the wafer is weighed in a substantially upright condition. A vertical or near vertical wafer orientation causes the surface area in the direction of a force (weight) sensor to be reduced compared with a horizontal wafer orientation. Hence, the electrostatic force components acting in the same direction as the wafer weight force component is reduced.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of measuring the mass of a semiconductor wafer, the method including: placing the wafer on a weighing instrument inside a chamber, and determining the mass of the wafer by the steps of measuring the weight of the wafer and compensating for buoyancy exerted on the wafer by the atmosphere in the chamber, wherein said determining step includes the step of orienting the plane of the wafer substantially upright when the weight of the wafer is measured. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein compensating for atmospheric buoyancy includes measuring or calculating air density pair .rho..sub.air wafer density .rho..sub.w, and a calibration density to calculate an atmospheric buoyancy effect B using the equation .times..rho..rho..rho..rho..rho..rho. ##EQU00004## where W.sub.w, is the measured weight of the wafer. 3. A method according to claim 2 including measuring pressure P, temperature T and relative humidity H to calculate air density. 4. A method according to claim 1 including exposing the wafer to ionising radiation to reduce the magnitude of any static electrostatic charge on the surface of the wafer. 5. A method according to claim 1 including: moving the plane of the wafer to a substantially horizontal orientation after its mass is determined, treating the wafer in the horizontal orientation, repeating the steps of placing the wafer in a vertical orientation on a weighing instrument and determining the mass of the wafer to determine a change in wafer mass caused by the wafer, treatment. 