A method and system for automatically generating a self-updating naturally-reading narrative product summary including assertions about a selected product. In one embodiment, the system and method includes evaluating an existing narrative product summary, comparing an existing attribute name, attribute value, attribute unit, and assertion model, respectively, to a current attribute name, attribute value, attribute unit, and assertion model to determine if one of the comparisons shows a change. The system and method further determines a new attribute associated with the selected product, selects an alternative product, retrieves a new assertion model with assertions that describe the selected product and identify an alternative product in a natural manner. The system and method then generates a naturally-reading narrative product summary by combining the new attribute with the new retrieved assertion model, and by combining the selected alternative product with another retrieved assertion model to recommend the selected alternative product in the narrative.
Claims The claimed invention is: 1. A method performed by one or more computing devices for generating a self-updating naturally-reading narrative product summary including assertions about a selected product, the method comprising: evaluating, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, an existing narrative product summary including: reconciling the existing narrative product summary into an existing attribute associated with the selected product, and resolving forms in the existing narrative product summary into an existing assertion model; determining, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, at least one new attribute associated with the selected product; retrieving, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, assertion models defining forms in which an assertion can be manifested to describe the selected product, and to recommend an alternative product in a natural manner; receiving, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, a plurality of bids from manufacturers that indicate an amount of compensation each manufacturer is willing to pay to have at least one of the manufacturer's products be recommended as the alternative product; selecting, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, the alternative product based on the plurality of bids; and generating, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, an updated naturally reading narrative by combining the at least one new attribute and the selected alternative product with the retrieved assertion models such that the generated narrative includes a recommendation of the selected alternative product. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the amount of the compensation is based on at least one of frequency of the recommendation and number of recommended products sold that is attributable to the recommendation. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the existing attribute value of the selected product is ordered within an evaluative scale of alternative products. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the existing attribute value of the selected product ordered within the evaluative scale of alternative products changes over time with respect to the alternative products. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising notifying a user that an update has taken place of the self-updating naturally-reading narrative product summary. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the user is notified by email or RSS feed that an update has taken place of the self-updating naturally-reading narrative product summary. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected alternative product is selected from a product category of a class of peer products. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein characteristics of peer products in the class of peer products cause a change in a scalarization range of the existing attribute value of the selected product, thereby introducing a new assertion based upon a changed relative position of the selected product in the peer class. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the characteristics of peer products in the class of peer products includes the number or type of peer products. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the characteristic of number or type of peer product in the class of peer products causes a change in dollar value of the selected product. 