An artificial muscle (10) comprises a chamber (12) having a flexible wall of plastics material, a device for heating and/or cooling a low-boiling-point fluid contained in, or in communication with, the chamber so that at least some of the fluid changes state between liquid and gaseous so that the force in the chamber on the flexible wall changes and/or the flexible wall moves to change the volume of the chamber, and a tendon (14) which at least partly encircles the chamber over an extent that varies with variations in the chamber volume for transmitting force between the flexible wall and a load. The use of a low-boiling-point fluid operating at around its boiling point enables plastics materials to be used without thermal damage, and the use of plastics materials enables low production costs. The use of a flexible wall to convey an effort to a load avoids the need for sliding parts and can provide advantages such as reduced friction and ease of sealing. The use of a low-boiling-point fluid operating at around its boiling point also enables large changes in pressure to be achieved with relatively small changes in temperature, so that the muscle can operate over a relatively small temperature range. The use of a low-boiling-point fluid operating at around its boiling point also reduces the risk of personal injury. The tendon arrangement provides less of a restriction on the operating range of the muscle than a McKibben type arrangement.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An artificial muscle comprising: a first chamber having a flexible wall of plastics material; a second chamber; a low-boiling-point fluid in the chambers; first valve means for permitting flow of the fluid through the first valve means between the second and first chambers in only a first direction; venting means for permitting the fluid to vent through the venting means between the first and second chambers in a second direction opposite to said first direction, wherein the venting means is a tube allowing the passage of fluid out of the expansion chamber via a controllable restrictor valve and onto a recirculation system; controllable operating means for heating and/or cooling the fluid and for controllably causing fluid to move through the first valve means between the first and second chambers so that at least some of the moved fluid changes state between liquid and gaseous and at least one of: the force of the fluid in the first chamber on the flexible wall changes, and the flexible wall moves to change the volume of the first chamber; and force and/or movement transmitting means for transmitting the force on and/or movement of the flexible wall to a load, wherein the controllable operating means comprises a control unit, wherein the control unit operably connects to (a) the heater element, (b) the controllable restrictor valve, and (c) the recirculation system. 2. An artificial muscle as claimed in claim 1, wherein the boiling point of the fluid is in the range of 20 to 50.degree. C. 3. An artificial muscle as claimed in claim 1, wherein the controllable operating means includes means which is arranged controllably to heat and/or cool the fluid in the second chamber so that fluid moves through the first valve means in said first direction between the second and first chambers. 4. An artificial muscle as claimed in claim 1, wherein the controllable operating means includes means for controllably varying the volume of the second chamber so that fluid moves through the first valve means in said first direction between the second and first chambers, and means for heating and/or cooling the fluid which has moved so that it changes state between liquid and gaseous. 5. An artificial muscle as claimed in claim 1, further including second valve means which is controllable to vary the rate at which the fluid can vent through the venting means in said second direction between the first chamber and the second chamber. 6. An artificial muscle as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first valve means comprises a pressure release valve. 7. An artificial muscle as claimed in claim 1, wherein the force and/or movement transmitting means including a tendon which at least partly encircles the chamber over an extent that varies with variations in the chamber volume. 8. An artificial muscle as claimed in claim 7, wherein the tendon has a pair of tendon portions which: extend from respective distal points towards the chamber in mutually opposite directions to a crossing region; cross each other at the crossing region; and thence extend at least partly around the chamber in mutually opposite directions. 9. An artificial muscle as claimed in claim 8, where each tendon portion has a plurality of finger portions which are interdigitated with the finger portions of the other tendon portion. 10. An artificial muscle as claimed in claim 7, wherein the chamber has a generally cylindrical side wall which varies in outside diameter with variations in the volume of the chamber, and the tendon at least partly encircles the side wall. 11. An artificial muscle as claimed in claim 10, wherein the side wall is of flexible, substantially-inextensible material, and, in use, the chamber decreases in outside diameter by forming an inwardly projecting fold in the side wall of increasing size. 12. An artificial muscle as claimed in claim 8, wherein: the chamber has a generally cylindrical side wall which varies in outside diameter with variations in the volume of the chamber; the tendon at least partly encircles the side wall; the side wall is of flexible, substantially-inextensible material, and, in use, the chamber decreases in outside diameter by forming an inwardly projecting fold in the side wall of increasing size; and the chamber is arranged so that in use the fold forms in the region of the crossing region of the tendon portions. 13. An artificial muscle as claimed in claim 7 in combination with at least one other artificial muscle as claimed in claim 7, each tendon being connected in series or in parallel with at least one other of the tendons. 14. A device in the form of a robot or toy, or an exoskeleton for fitting to a person, the device having at least one muscle comprising: a first chamber having a flexible wall of plastics material; a second chamber; a low-boiling-point fluid in the chambers; first valve means for permitting flow of the fluid through the first valve means between the second and first chambers in only a first direction; venting means for permitting the fluid to vent through the venting means between the first and second chambers in a second direction opposite to said first direction, wherein the venting means is a tube allowing the passage of fluid out of the expansion chamber via a controllable restrictor valve and onto a recirculation system; controllable operating means for heating and/or cooling the fluid and for controllably causing fluid to move through the first valve means between the first and second chambers so that at least some of the moved fluid changes state between liquid and gaseous and at least one of the force of the fluid in the first chamber on the flexible wall changes, and the flexible wall moves to change the volume of the first chamber; and force and/or movement transmitting means for transmitting the force on and/or movement of the flexible wall to a movable member of the device, wherein the controllable operating means comprises a control unit, wherein the control unit operably connects to (a) the heater element, (b) the controllable restrictor valve, and (c) the recirculation system. 