A micro-manipulator machine for harvesting and cryofreezing crystals for cryogenic storage and subsequent analysis includes a micropositioner mechanism for converting motions manually input to a position control knob to fractionally-scaled motions of a follower mechanism which includes a tool head support arm and tool head that releasably holds a filamentary polymer cryoloop for immersion into a liquid crystal growth media and extraction of a liquid drop containing a selected crystal from the media. A first automatic actuator mechanism orbits the tool head support arm, tool head, cryoloop, liquid drop and harvested crystal from a harvesting location to a retrieval location when the micropositioner input control arm has been moved manually away from the crystal harvesting location by the operator after extracting a crystal drop, and a second automatic actuator mechanism pivots the toll head into a flowing stream of a cryogenic gas to freeze the liquid drop and crystal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A micro-manipulator machine for harvesting crystals from a container, said machine comprising; a. a micropositioner mechanism for converting three dimensional translational motions of an input control arm movable by a hand-manipulatable position control member in a first, input coordinate space to motions of a follower mechanism coupled to said input control arm, b. a tool head support arm attached at a first, inner end thereof to an output member of said follower mechanism, c. a tool head attached to a second, outer end of said tool head support arm, said tool head having attached thereto a tool for extracting a crystal from a container, said tool being movable translationally in response to manipulation of said position control member in a second, output coordinate space in motions which are ratios of corresponding motions of said position control member in said first, input coordinate space, d. a first actuator mechanism for moving said tool arm from a first, crystal extraction location proximate a container to a second, crystal retrieval location spaced away from said crystal extracting location, and e. a control system for automatically energizing said first actuator mechanism to thereby move tool head to said crystal retrieval position when said tool head has been moved a predetermined distance away from said crystal extraction location by manipulation of said position control knob. 2. The machine of claim 1 wherein said first actuator mechanism includes in combination; a. a rotary torque-exertable actuator having an output shaft rotationally adjustable to angular positions in response to input command signals received from said control system, b. a crank having a longitudinally disposed base bar and at least a first radially disposed transverse crank arm protruding from said crank bar, said crank arm being fastened at an outer end thereof to said rotary actuator shaft, and said tool head support arm being fastened to said longitudinal base bar of said crank, whereby rotational motion of said actuator shaft about its longitudinal axis effects orbital motion of said base bar and tool head support arm between said first, crystal extraction location and said second, crystal retrieval location. 3. The machine of claim 1 further including a second actuator mechanism for automatically pivoting said tool head towards a source of flowing cryogenic gas for a predetermined time interval in response to movement of said tool head from said retrieval location to a docking location. 4. The machine of claim 3 further including a shutter mechanism for momentarily moving an obstructing shutter member from a blocking to an unblocking orientation to thus allow unobstructed flow of cryogenic gas onto said tool head. 5. The machine of claim 4 wherein said shutter mechanism is so constructed as to cause said shutter member to move to an orientation permitting flow of cryogenic gas onto said tool head in response to pivotable motion of said tool head. 6. The machine of claim 1 further including a tool angle control mechanism for remotely adjusting the orbital location of said tool head support arm to thereby adjust the inclination angle of a tool held in said tool head relative to a container located at said crystal extraction location. 7. The machine of claim 6 wherein said tool angle control mechanism includes a shaft angle encoder having fixed to an input shaft thereof an operator manipulatable tool angle control member, and control electronics in said control system for receiving an electrical input angle signal from said shaft angle encoder and in response thereto energizing said rotary actuator to thereby incrementally adjust said orbital position of said crank with said tool head support arm at said first crystal extraction location to thereby adjust the inclination angle of said tool head commanded by said input angle signal. 8. The machine of claim 7 further including an inclination angle save system including an electronic memory associated with said control electronics for storing therein operator adjusted input inclination angle signals, and inputting said signals to said control electronics to thereby adjust said inclination angle of said tool head to said saved angle value after said tool head has been moved from and returned to said crystal extraction location. 9. The machine of claim 8 wherein said tool angle rotary actuator mechanism includes a limit stop for limiting orbital motion of said crank yoke and tool arm towards said crystal extraction location, said control electronics being responsive to said inclination angle input signal in outputting to said actuator a command signal for rotating said rotary force transducer in small angular increments clockwise and counterclockwise from said limit stop angle position of said yoke. 10. The machine of claim 1 further including; a. a cryofreezer station for providing a stream of cryogenic gas, b. a second actuator mechanism for moving said tool head to a third, cryofreezing position at which said tool head is impinged by a stream of cryogenic gas from said cryofreezing stations, and c. said control system energizing said second actuator mechanism. 11. The machine of claim 10 wherein said first actuator mechanism includes; a. a first follower mechanism position sensor for providing a first switch signal in response to motion of said follower mechanism a predetermined distance away from said crystal extraction location, b. a crank mechanism including a crank having a radially disposed input arm thereof coupled at an outer end to the output shaft of a rotary actuator mounted on an output member of said follower mechanism, and c. said crank having a longitudinally disposed base bar which supports said tool head support arm, whereby angular motion of said output shaft effects orbital motion of said tool head support arm when said rotary actuator is energized by said control electronics in response to said first sensor signal. 12. The machine of claim 11 wherein said second actuator mechanism includes a coaxial shaft extension which extends rearwardly from said tool arm, rotary bearing supports for rotatably supporting said shaft extension in a longitudinally disposed orientation through said base bar of said crank, and a pivot drive mechanism for incrementally rotating said shaft extension and said tool arm to thus pivot said tool head to said third, cryofreezing position. 13. The machine of claim 12 wherein said pivot drive mechanism includes in combination; a. a transversely disposed sector gear fixedly mounted with respect to said rotary actuator, b. a pinion gear attached to said coaxial shaft extension of said tool arm, said pinion gear being transversely aligned with said sector gear, and c. a tool head pivot control mechanism for momentarily incrementing the angular position of said output shaft of said rotary actuator to a position beyond said crystal retrieval position, thus causing said sector gear and said pinion gear to mesh and thereby incrementally rotate said tool head support arm and said tool head towards said cryofreezer station. 14. The machine of claim 13 wherein said tool head pivot control mechanism includes in combination; a. a docking arm protruding from said follower mechanism, b. a docking switch fixed to said machine support structure, said switch being actuateable by manual control of said micropositioner mechanism to thereby move said tool head support arm a predetermined small distance from said crystal retrieval location to a docking location, and c. control circuitry within said control electronics responsive to actuation of said docking switch in providing a command signal of a selectably predetermined time period to be input to said rotary actuator, to thus cause said pinion and sector gears to be rotatably meshed for said predetermined time period. 15. The machine of claim 14 further including a shutter mechanism for momentarily moving an obstructing shutter member from a blocking to an unblocking orientation to thus allow unobstructed flow of cryogenic gas onto said tool head. 16. The machine of claim 15 wherein said shutter mechanism is so constructed as to cause said shutter member to move to an orientation permitting flow of cryogenic gas onto said tool head in response to pivotable motion of said tool head. 17. The machine of claim 16 wherein said shutter mechanism is further defined as including; a. a shutter plate pivotably mounted to a fixed member of said machine, b. a rotatably contactable member protruding from said shutter plate, and c. a rotatably contactable member protruding from said tool arm, said member being so constructed as to cause pivotable motion of said shutter from a first, cryogas obstructing orientation to a second, cryogas flow enabling position in response to rotatable contact between said shutter member and said tool arm member. 18. The machine of claim 17 wherein said rotatably contactable member of said shutter plate is further defined as having a cam surface. 19. The machine of claim 18 wherein said rotatably contactable member of said tool arm is further defined as being a rotatable wheel attached to said tool head support arm. 20. The machine of claim 11 further including a tool angle control mechanism for remotely adjusting the orbital location of said tool head support arm to thereby adjust the inclination angle of a tool held in said tool head relative to a container located at said crystal extraction location. 21. The machine of claim 20 wherein said tool angle control mechanism includes a shaft angle encoder having fixed to an input shaft thereof an operator manipulatable tool angle control member, and control electronics in said control system for receiving an electrical input angle signal from said shaft angle encoder and in response thereto energizing said rotary actuator to thereby incrementally adjust said orbital position of said crank with said tool head support arm at said first crystal extraction location to thereby adjust the inclination angle of said tool head commanded by said input angle signal. 22. The machine of claim 21 further including an inclination angle save system including an electronic memory associated with said control electronics for storing therein operator adjusted input inclination angle signals, and inputting said signals to said control electronics to thereby adjust said inclination angle of said tool head to said saved angle value after said tool head has been moved from and returned to said crystal extraction location. 23. The machine of claim 22 wherein said tool angle rotary actuator mechanism includes a limit stop for limiting orbital motion of said crank yoke and tool arm towards said crystal extraction location, said control electronics being responsive to said inclination angle input signal in outputting to said actuator a command signal for rotating said rotary force transducer in small angular increments clockwise and counterclockwise from said limit stop angle position of said yoke. 