The embodiments disclosed herein relate to various medical device components, including components that can be incorporated into robotic and/or in vivo medical devices. Certain embodiments include various actuation system embodiments, including fluid actuation systems, drive train actuation systems, and motorless actuation systems. Additional embodiments include a reversibly lockable tube that can provide access for a medical device to a patient's cavity and further provides a reversible rigidity or stability during operation of the device. Further embodiments include various operational components for medical devices, including medical device arm mechanisms that have both axial and rotational movement while maintaining a relatively compact structure. medical device winch components, medical device biopsy/stapler/clamp mechanisms, and medical device adjustable focus mechanisms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An arm component for a robotic device configured to be positioned within a cavity of a patient, the arm component comprising: (a) an extendable, rotational arm comprising: (i) an exterior portion comprising a first coupling component; (ii) a first aperture defined within the arm; (b) a first driven component comprising a first lumen comprising a second coupling component on an inner surface of the first lumen, the second coupling component configured to be coupled with the first coupling component, wherein the arm is disposed through the first lumen; (c) a first drive component coupled with the first driven component; (d) a second driven component comprising a second lumen and a second aperture defined within the second driven component, wherein the arm is disposed through the second lumen, wherein the second aperture is perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the arm; (e) a pin disposed within the first aperture and the second aperture, wherein the pin is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the arm; and (f) a second drive component coupled with the second driven component. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the first and second coupling components comprise threads. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the first and second drive components and the first and second driven components comprise gears. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the first and second drive components and the first and second driven components comprise a pulley system. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the first and second drive components and the first and second driven components comprise a friction drive system. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein actuation of the first drive component actuates the arm to extend or retract. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein actuation of the second drive component actuates the arm to rotate. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the arm component further comprises an end effector operably coupled to a distal end of the arm component. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the robotic device comprises an in vivo medical device, wherein the arm component is a first robotic arm, wherein the in vivo medical device comprises the first robotic arm and a second robotic arm. 10. An arm component for an intracavity robotic device, the arm component comprising: (a) an extendable, rotatable, cylindrical arm comprising: (i) external threads defined on an external surface of the arm; and (ii) a slot defined within the arm; (b) a first driven gear positioned around the arm, the first driven gear comprising: (i) first external driven gear teeth; (ii) a first lumen defined in the first driven gear, the first lumen comprising internal threads defined on an inner surface of the first lumen, wherein the internal threads are mated with the external threads of the arm; and (iii) a first bushing extending from the first driven gear; (c) a first drive gear operably coupled with external driven gear teeth of the first driven gear; (d) a second driven gear positioned around the arm, the second driven gear comprising: (i) second external driven gear teeth; (ii) an aperture defined in the second driven gear, wherein the aperture is perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the arm; (iii) a second lumen defined in the second driven gear, the second lumen comprising internal threads defined on an inner surface of the second lumen, wherein the internal threads are mated with the external threads of the arm; (iv) a pin positioned through the slot in the arm and the aperture in the second driven component, wherein the pin is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the arm; and (v) a second bushing extending from the second driven gear, the second bushing in contact with the first bushing; and (e) a second drive gear operably coupled with the second external driven gear teeth of the second driven gear. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein actuation of the first drive component actuates the arm to extend or retract. 12. The device of claim 10, wherein actuation of the second drive component actuates the arm to rotate. 13. The device of claim 10, further comprising an end effector operably coupled to a distal end of the arm component. 14. The device of claim 10, wherein the arm component is operably coupled at a proximal end of the arm component to the intracavity robotic device. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein the arm component is a first robotic arm, wherein the intracavity robotic device comprises the first robotic arm and a second robotic arm. 