A minimally-invasive surgical system includes a slave surgical instrument having a slave surgical instrument tip and a master grip. The slave surgical instrument tip has an alignment in a common frame of reference and the master grip, which is coupled to the slave surgical instrument, has an alignment in the common frame of reference. An alignment error, in the common frame of reference, is a difference in alignment between the alignment of the slave surgical instrument tip and the alignment of the master grip. A ratcheting system (i) coupled to the master grip to receive the alignment of the master grip and (ii) coupled to the slave surgical instrument, to control motion of the slave by continuously reducing the alignment error, as the master grip moves, without autonomous motion of the slave surgical instrument tip and without autonomous motion of the master grip.
Claims We claim: 1. A surgical system comprising: a slave surgical instrument having a slave surgical instrument tip wherein said slave surgical instrument tip has an alignment in a common coordinate frame of reference; a master grip, coupled to said slave surgical instrument, having an alignment in said common coordinate frame of reference, wherein an alignment error in said common frame of reference is a difference in alignment in said common frame of reference between said alignment of said slave surgical instrument tip and said alignment of said master grip; and a ratcheting system coupled to said master grip to receive said alignment of said master grip and coupled to said slave surgical instrument, wherein the ratcheting system is configured to control motion of said slave surgical instrument tip by continuously reducing the alignment error as said master grip moves, without autonomous motion of said slave surgical instrument tip and without autonomous motion of said master grip, by bleeding off said alignment error, wherein the bleeding off said alignment error uses a new alignment error in said common frame of reference when said motion of said master grip reduces said alignment error in said common frame of reference, wherein the bleeding off said alignment error uses a current alignment error in said common frame of reference when the motion of said master grip does not reduces said alignment error, and wherein the bleeding off said alignment error continuously reduces said alignment error between said alignments in said common frame of reference. 2. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein said alignment error is an orientation error. 3. The surgical system of claim 2, wherein said orientation error comprises an angle. 4. The surgical system of claim 3: wherein said angle is expressed as: .theta..sub.e=cos.sup.-1[0.5*(R.sub..DELTA.11+R.sub..DELTA.22+R.sub..DELT- A.33-1)], and wherein R.sub..DELTA.11, R.sub..DELTA.22, R.sub..DELTA.33 are diagonal elements of a relative rotation matrix R.sub..DELTA.. 5. The surgical system of claim 3, wherein said angle is one Euler angle in a set of Euler angles. 6. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein said ratcheting system includes: a roll-joint limit controller configured to determine whether motion of said slave surgical instrument tip has reached a joint limit wherein upon reaching said joint limit, motion of the slave surgical instrument tip is constrained. 7. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein said ratcheting system includes: an introduce control system error controller configured to introduce a control system error with respect to said alignments of said slave surgical instrument tip and said master grip. 8. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein said ratcheting system includes: a multiple orientation solution controller configured to determine an orientation solution closest to an orientation of said master grip. 9. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein said master grip comprises an unpowered master grip. 10. A method of operating a surgical system comprising: controlling, by a control system of the surgical system, alignment of a slave surgical instrument tip in the surgical system with alignment of a master grip in said surgical system, wherein the controlling alignment further comprises: receiving, by a ratcheting system in said control system, data representing an alignment of said slave surgical instrument tip in a common frame of reference and data representing an alignment of said master grip in said common frame of reference; and ratcheting, by said ratcheting system, said alignment of said slave surgical instrument tip to said alignment of said master grip by bleeding off an alignment error in said common frame of reference between said alignments, wherein the bleeding off comprises using a new alignment error in said common frame of reference when motion of said master grip reduces said alignment error in said common frame of reference, wherein the bleeding off comprises using a current alignment error in said common frame of reference when the motion of said master grip does not reduce said alignment error, and wherein the bleeding off continuously reduces said alignment error between said alignments in said common frame of reference. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said ratcheting further comprises: sending a command to move said slave surgical instrument tip in a same relative way as motion of the master grip upon engagement of following by said surgical system irrespective of said alignments. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said ratcheting further comprises: generating a new alignment in said common frame of reference for said slave surgical instrument using said new alignment error; and sending a command to said slave surgical instrument based on said new alignment. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein said ratcheting further comprises: generating a new alignment error in said common frame of reference between said alignment of said slave surgical instrument tip and said alignment of said master grip; comparing said new alignment error with a current alignment error; setting said current alignment error to said new alignment error, when said comparing shows said new alignment error is less than said current alignment error; generating a new alignment for said slave surgical instrument tip in said common frame of reference using said current alignment error; sending a command to said slave surgical instrument based on said new alignment; and repeating said generating a new alignment error, said comparing, said setting, and said generating a new position, and said sending upon receipt of another alignment in said common frame of reference for said master grip. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein said ratcheting further comprises: introducing a control system error between said slave surgical instrument tip alignment and said master grip alignment. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said introducing a control system error further comprises: penalizing a commanded angular velocity for said slave surgical instrument tip based on said current alignment error. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said penalizing further comprises: selecting an angular velocity scale factor from a continuous and monotonic angular velocity penalty profile based on said current alignment error wherein said angular velocity scale factor increases as said current alignment error decreases so that said angular velocity increases as said current alignment error decreases. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said continuous and monotonic angular velocity penalty profile comprises a sigmoid function profile. 18. The method of claim 16 further comprising: selecting said continuous and monotonic angular velocity penalty profile based on a surgeon using the surgical system. 19. The method of claim 10, wherein said ratcheting further comprises: selecting an orientation solution from a group of orientation solutions based on an orientation, in said common frame of reference, of said master grip. 20. The method of claim 10, wherein said ratcheting further comprises: determining whether a joint limit in a given direction is reached; and constraining motion of said slave upon reaching said joint limit. 