A method for calibrating tension sensors on tendons in a tendon-driven manipulator without disassembling the manipulator and without external force references. The method calibrates the tensions against each other to produce results that are kinematically consistent. The results might not be absolutely accurate, however, they are optimized with respect to an initial or nominal calibration. The method includes causing the tendons to be slack and recording the sensor values from sensors that measure the tension on the tendons. The method further includes tensioning the tendons with the manipulator positioned so that it is not in contact with any obstacle or joint limit and again recording the sensor values. The method then performs a regression process to determine the sensor parameters that both satisfy a zero-torque constraint on the manipulator and minimize the error with respect to nominal calibration values.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calibrating the tension on a set of tendons that drive a manipulator without directly applying any external force references to either the manipulator or the tendons, said calibrating method comprising: causing the tendons to have zero tension and recording sensor readings; positioning the manipulator so that it is not in contact with any obstacle and none of the joints in the manipulator are at their limit; putting a tension on the tendons and recording sensor readings; and solving for calibration parameters using a regression process that satisfies a zero-torque constraint on the manipulator. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein using the regression process includes determining that a solution of the regression process lies in a null-space. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein using the regression process includes performing a least-squares fit process. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the manipulator is a robotic finger including finger joints. 5. A method for calibrating the tension on a set of tendons that drive a manipulator without disassembling the manipulator or the tendons, or any part therein, said calibrating method comprising: causing the tendons to have zero tension and recording sensor readings; positioning the manipulator so that it is not in contact with any obstacle and none of the joints in the manipulator are at their limit; putting a tension on the tendons and recording sensor readings; and solving for calibration parameters using a regression process that satisfies a zero-torque constraint on the manipulator, wherein using the regression process includes identifying that a solution to the regression processor lies in a null-space and solving for a sensor calibration gain using a least-squares fit process. 6. The method according to claim 5 wherein the manipulator is a robotic finger including finger joints. 7. A robotic system that calibrates the tension on tendons in a manipulator without disassembling the manipulator, said system comprising: a manipulator having a revolute joint; a set of tendons attached to the revolute joint; a controller that calibrates the set of tendons using a method including: causing the tendons to have zero tension and recording sensor readings; positioning the manipulator so that it is not in contact with any obstacle and none of the joints in the manipulator are at their limit; putting a tension on the tendons and recording sensor readings; and solving for calibration parameters using a regression process that satisfies a zero-torque constraint on the manipulator. 8. The system according to claim 7 wherein solving for calibration parameters using a regression process determines that a solution of the regression process lies in a null-space. 9. The system according to claim 7 wherein performing a regression process performs a least-squares fit process. 10. The system according to claim 7 wherein the manipulator is a robotic finger including finger joints. 11. The system according to claim 7 wherein solving the calibration equations includes minimizing the error with respect to nominal calibration values. 12. The method according to claim 1 wherein solving the calibration equations includes minimizing the error with respect to nominal calibration values. 13. The method according to claim 5 wherein solving the calibration equations includes minimizing the error with respect to nominal calibration values. 14. The method according to claim 1 wherein the manipulator joint is a revolute joint. 15. The method according to claim 5 wherein the manipulator joint is a revolute joint. 