An autonomous controller for a vehicle. The controller has a processor configured to receive position signals from position sensors and to generate operation control signals defining an updated travel path for the vehicle. The controller has a programmable interface providing communication among the position sensors, the operation control mechanisms, and the processor. The controller is configured to normalize inputs to the processor from the position sensors and to generate compatible operation control signals applied as the inputs to the operation control mechanisms. The processor and the programmable interface define a self-contained unit configurable for operation with a variety of different remote sensors and different remote operation control mechanisms.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A navigation system for an autonomous vehicle, comprising: an object sensor configured to generate object signals indicative of objects in a vicinity of the vehicle; and a processor programmed with a route planning algorithm to identify from said object signals a moving object in the vicinity of the vehicle, determine in the vicinity of the vehicle whether a field of view of the object sensor is blocked, predict movement of the moving object in the blocked area, and calculate based on the predicted movement of the moving object in the blocked area and a planned velocity of the vehicle an avoidance path of the vehicle to avoid collision with the moving object. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is programmed to calculate changes in the velocity of the vehicle to avoid the moving object. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the processor is programmed to calculate a deviation of the vehicle from the avoidance path if the moving object can not be avoided by changing the velocity of the vehicle. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises: a variable structure observer configured to identify positions, velocities, and geometries of the objects in the vicinity of the vehicle, predict the positions and velocities of the objects in time, and estimate future positions of the moving object. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the route planning algorithm is configured to determine a route of the vehicle between two waypoints based on at least one of recorded traffic patterns between the two waypoints, recorded times to travel between the two waypoints, a history of congestion areas between the two waypoints, and real-time reports of congestion. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the route planning algorithm is configured to determine the route based on respective weighted averages for a number of specific travel routes between the two waypoints, respective weighted averages including said at least one of the recorded times to travel between the two waypoints, the history of congestion areas between the two waypoints, and the real-time reports of congestion. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a position sensor configured to generate position signals indicative of a location and a heading of the vehicle; an operation control mechanism which controls an operation of the vehicle, and said processor configured to generate operation control signals for supply to the operation control mechanism for control of the vehicle along the route. 8. The system of claim 7, further comprising a programmable interface configured to provide communication among the position sensor, the object sensor, the operation control mechanism, and the processor. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the object sensor comprises at least one of 1) a light detection and ranging device configured to produce a beam and detect a reflection of the beam from the objects, 2) a laser radar device configured to produce a beam and detect a reflection, at the wavelength of the beam, from the objects, and 3) a camera configured to provide an image of the objects in the vicinity of the vehicle. 10. The system of claim 7, wherein the position sensor comprises at least one of a global positioning system device or an inertial navigation system. 11. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to provide at least one of direction and speed control instructions to the operation control mechanism in a drive by wire format, and the processor electrically controls at least one of engine throttling, vehicle steering, and vehicle braking. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor includes a map storage area configured to store logical maps of waypoints along a route of the vehicle, said logical map including at least one of directions from one waypoint to another, geospatial coordinates of the waypoints, intersections of roads along the route, and times associated with traveling between different waypoints. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising a camera configured to provide an image along the route of the vehicle; and said processor based on the image identifies a lane for a travel path of the vehicle. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said processor is configured to determine if there is an obstruction in the identified lane. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein said processor is configured to determine a travel path for the vehicle by predicting a likelihood of collision of the vehicle with the moving object. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said processor is configured to determine the likelihood of collision based on a virtual path analysis program predicting the movement of the moving object. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said virtual path analysis program predicts an optimum trajectory including a speed and a direction of the vehicle for avoidance of the moving object. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein said processor is configured to generate a steering command based on 1) a moving point (x*(s), y*(s)) of the vehicle along the travel path of the vehicle, 2) a distance s(t) of the vehicle from the travel path, and 3) an error vector E(t) of an actual vehicle position (x(t), y(t)) from the moving point (x*(s(t)), y*(s(t))). 19. A navigation system for an autonomous vehicle, comprising: an object sensor configured to generate object signals indicative of objects in a vicinity of the vehicle; and a processor programmed with a velocity and path planning algorithm to translate a global route for vehicle travel into a local path of the vehicle in the vicinity of the vehicle, calculate a velocity of the vehicle along the local path to avoid a moving object in the vicinity of the vehicle, and if no mathematical solution exists for avoidance of the moving object by changing the velocity of the vehicle on the local path, calculate a deviation from the local path which avoids the moving object without stopping the vehicle. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the velocity and path planning algorithm calculates a time-optimal trajectory which satisfies velocity constraints of maximum and minimum speeds along the global route while avoiding the moving object. 