A package moving system has a jaw device movable between an open and a closed position. The jaw has a pair of opposite support structures that each support at least one support arm. The at least one support arm moves between a first and second position. In the first position, it receives a package. In the second, it supports the package. At least one retaining member is biased downward to engage the package when the jaws are in a closed position. The retaining element urges against an upper surface of the supported package to retain the package in the support arms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A package moving system comprising: a jaw device that is movable between an open position and a closed position, said jaw device comprising a powered device providing powered rotating movement for moving the jaw device, a pair of opposite support structures that each support at least one support arm, the pair of opposite support structures each movably and independently coupled directly with the powered device, the powered device includes a powered pivot device, the powered pivot device includes a pivot pin that is rotated about an axis to directly provide rotary movement from the powered pivot device, about the pivot pin, to the at least one support arm of each support structure, said at least one support arm of each support structure moves between an open position, for receiving a package, and a closed position, where said arms are positioned under the package for supporting the package; and at least one retaining element that is biased downward and is configured to engage the package supported by said support arms when said jaw device is in said closed position, said at least one retaining element being urged against an upper portion of the supported package to retain the supported package in position on said support arms. 2. The package moving system of claim 1, wherein said opposite support structures are pivotable between said open and closed positions. 3. The package moving system of claim 1, wherein said at least one support arm comprises a plurality of support arms mounted to the respective support structure. 4. The package moving system of claim 3, wherein said support arms are adjustably mounted to the respective support structures. 5. The package moving system of claim 1, further comprising a robotic device for moving said jaw device and said retaining elements to receive a package and lift and support and move the package. 6. The package moving system of claim 1, wherein said support arms comprise angled arms that have a first portion that extends generally downwardly from said support structure when said jaw device is in said closed position and a second portion that extends generally horizontally from a lower end of said first portion when said jaw device is in said closed position. 7. The package moving system of claim 1, wherein the powered device locking said pair of support structures in said closed position. 8. A package moving system comprising: a jaw device that is movable between an open position and a closed position, the jaw device comprising a pair of powered pivot devices for providing rotary movement, a pair of opposite support structures that each support at least one support arm, the opposite support structure each rotatably movably coupled directly with one of the pair of powered pivot devices, the pair of powered pivot devices each include a powered pivot device, each powered pivot device includes a pivot pin that is rotated about an axis to directly provide pivoting movement from the powered pivot device, about the pivot pin, to the at least one support arm of each support structure, the at least one support arm of each support structure moves between an open position, for receiving a package, and a closed position, where the arms are positioned under the package for supporting the package; and at least one retaining element that is biased downward and is configured to engage the package supported by the support arms when said jaw device is in the closed position, the at least one retaining element being urged against an upper portion of the supported package to retain the supported package in position on the support arms. 9. The package moving system of claim 8, wherein said at least one support arm comprises a plurality of support arms mounted to the respective support structure. 10. The package moving system of claim 9, wherein the support arms are adjustably mounted to the respective support structures. 11. The package moving system of claim 8, further comprising a robotic device for moving said jaw device and the retaining elements to receive a package and lift and support and move the package. 12. The package moving system of claim 8, wherein the support arms comprise angled arms that have a first portion that extends generally downwardly from the support structure when the jaw device is in the closed position and a second portion that extends generally horizontally from a lower end of the first portion when the jaw device is in the closed position. 13. The package moving system of claim 8, wherein the pair of powered pivot devices locking the pair of support structures in the closed position. 