A passive alignment structure is provided that includes at least one rigid post being coupled to a top surface and a bottom surface. At least one in-plane clamp is associated with a respective at least one rigid post. The at least one in-plane clamp receives a clamping force to lock the respective at least one rigid post. A plurality of pins allows the top surface to align to the bottom surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A passive alignment structure comprising: at least one rigid post being coupled to a top surface and a bottom surface at least one in-plane clamp associated with a respective at least one rigid post, said at least one in-plane clamp receives a clamping force to lock said respective at least one rigid post; and a plurality of pins for allowing the top surface to align to the bottom surface. 2. The passive alignment structure of claim 1, wherein said at least one in-plane clamp comprises one in-plane clamp. 3. The passive alignment structure of claim 1, wherein said at least one in-plane clamp comprises two in-plane clamps. 4. The passive alignment structure of claim 1, wherein said at least one rigid post comprises one rigid post. 5. The passive alignment structure of claim 1, wherein said at least one rigid post comprises two rigid posts. 6. The passive alignment structure of claim 1, wherein said pins comprise circular notch flexure. 7. The passive alignment structure of claim 1, wherein said pins comprise blade flexures. 8. The passive alignment structure of claim 1, wherein said at least one in-plane clamp comprises displacements sensors such as capacitance probes. 9. The passive alignment structure of claim 1, wherein said top surface comprises a tool structure. 10. The passive alignment structure of claim 1, wherein said bottom surface comprises a stamping structure. 11. A method of performing passive alignment comprising: coupling at least one rigid post to a top surface and a bottom surface positioning at least one in-plane clamp with a respective at least one rigid post, said at least one in-plane clamp receives a clamping force to lock said respective at least one rigid post; and positioning a plurality of pins for allowing the top surface to align to the bottom surface. 12. The method structure of claim 11, wherein said at least one in-plane clamp comprises one in-plane clamp. 13. The method structure of claim 11, wherein said at least one in-plane clamp comprises two in-plane clamps. 14. The method structure of claim 11, wherein said at least one rigid post comprises one rigid post. 15. The method structure of claim 11, wherein said at least one rigid post comprises two rigid posts. 16. The method structure of claim 11, wherein said pins comprise circular notch flexure. 17. The method structure of claim 11, wherein said pins comprise blade flexures. 18. The method structure of claim 11, wherein said at least one in-plane clamp comprises capacitance probes. 19. The method structure of claim 11, wherein said top surface comprises a tool structure. 20. The method structure of claim 11, wherein said bottom surface comprises a stamping structure. 21. The method structure of claim 20, wherein said pins allow to align bottom surface against a top surface. 22. The method structure of claim 20, wherein the said planar arrangement is extended to alignment in three-dimensions. 23. The method structure of claim 22, wherein said at least one rigid post comprises at least three rigid posts to align both the pitch and roll angles between the top and bottom surface. 24. The method structure of claim 23, with an addition of posts symmetric to the center line, which allows for the release of the central circular alignment pin or notch flexure, and hence reduces the effect of springback. 