A system for mounting a tire and a wheel is disclosed. The system includes a robotic arm pivotably-connected to an end effector. The system also includes a tire-supporting portion including a support surface and a pair of wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portions disposed upon the support surface. The pair of wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portions includes a first wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portion fixedly-disposed relative the support surface and a second wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portion movably-disposed relative the support surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for mounting a tire to a wheel for forming a tire-wheel assembly, comprising: a tire-supporting portion including a support surface, a pair of wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portions disposed upon the support surface, wherein the pair of wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portions includes a first wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portion arranged upon the support surface, and a second wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portion arranged upon the support surface. 2. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: a first substantially vertical flange connected to first wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portion, wherein the first substantially vertical flange extends from the support surface, and a second substantially vertical flange connected to the second wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portion, wherein the second substantially vertical flange is movably-supported by the support surface. 3. The system according to claim 2, further comprising: a substantially horizontal flange connecting the first and second substantially vertical flanges, wherein the second wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portion is slidably-disposed upon the substantially horizontal flange, wherein the substantially horizontal flange extends through an opening formed in the second substantially vertical flange. 4. The system according to claim 2, further comprising: a pair of rails extending from the support surface, wherein the second substantially vertical flange defines a pair of recesses that receives the pair of rails, wherein the second substantially vertical flange is slidably-disposed upon the pair of rails. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein each of the first and second wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portions includes: a housing having an edge surface and an upper surface defining a plurality of openings, and a plurality of wheels or rollers that extend from the housing and through the plurality of openings. 6. The system according to claim 5, wherein the plurality of wheels or rollers defines: means for engaging and manipulating an axial end surface sidewall of the tire for seating at least one or more of a first and second bead of a tire at least proximate one or more of a first and second bead seat of a wheel. 7. The system according to claim 5, wherein the edge surface of the housing defines: means for engaging a portion of a circumference of the wheel. 8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the first wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portion is fixedly-disposed relative the support surface. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the second wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portion is movably-disposed relative the support surface. 10. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: a robotic arm pivotably-connected to an end effector that retains and releasably-fixes the wheel proximate an end of the robotic arm, wherein the robotic arm is spatially movable relative the tire supporting portion in a plurality of directions. 11. A method for mounting a tire to a wheel for forming a tire-wheel assembly, comprising the steps of: utilizing a pair of wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portions disposed upon a support surface of a tire-supporting portion for engaging a portion of a circumference of the wheel, and engaging and manipulating an axial end surface/sidewall of the tire; and utilizing a device that is spatially movable relative the tire supporting for moving the wheel and tire relative the pair of wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portions wherein the wheel drags the tire against the wheel-engaging member thereby mounting the tire to the wheel. 12. The method according, to claim 11, wherein the releasably-fixing the wheel to the device includes the steps of: releasably-fixing the wheel to an end effector that is pivotably-connected to an end of the device at a joint/pivot point; and pivoting one or more of the device and end effector relative the pivot point. 13. The method according to claim 11, wherein the utilizing the device to locate the wheel at least proximate the tire step includes the steps of: locating a first portion of a first, upper bead of the tire at least proximate a first, upper bead seat of the wheel, locating a second portion of the first, upper bead of the tire at least proximate a drop center portion of the wheel, locating a first portion of a second, lower bead of the tire at least proximate the drop center portion of the wheel, and locating a second portion of the second, lower bead of the tire at least proximate an axial end/sidewall of the wheel. 14. The method according to claim 11, wherein the utilizing the device to locate the wheel at least proximate the tire step includes the steps of: locating a first portion of a first, upper bead of the tire proximate a first, upper bead seat of the wheel; locating a portion of the axial end/sidewall of the wheel adjacent one or more of a second portion of the first upper bead of the tire and a portion of a first/upper axial end sidewall of the tire; and locating a first portion of a second, lower bead of the tire at least proximate one or more of a drop center portion and a second, lower bead seat of the wheel. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the locating a portion of the axial end/sidewall of the wheel step includes the step of: substantially crushing a portion of the tire thereby brining opposing portions of the first and second beads of the tire substantially adjacent or proximate one another. 16. The method according to claim 11, wherein the moving the wheel and tire relative the pair of wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portions step includes the step of: utilizing the device to move the wheel along one or more substantially linear paths, and a non-linear path. 17. The method according to claim 16, wherein, responsive to moving the wheel along the non-linear path, further comprising the step of: engaging opposing portions of the circumference of the wheel adjacent an edge of each of the a first and second wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portion of the pair of wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portions; and moving the second wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portion of the pair of wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portions away from or toward the first wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portion of the pair of wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portions. 18. The method according to claim 11, wherein the device is a robotic arm. 19. The method according to claim 18, wherein, prior to the utilizing the pair of wheel-engaging and tire-manipulating portions disposed upon the support surface of the tire-supporting portion step, further comprising the steps of: releasably-fixing the wheel to the robotic arm; disposing the tire upon a tire-supporting portion including a support surface; and utilizing the robotic arm to locate the wheel at least proximate the tire. 