Radioimaging methods, devices and radiopharmaceuticals therefor.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of radioactive imaging, comprising: (a) providing an isotope in a body of a patient, said isotope being in an imaged area; (b) providing a camera having a plurality of solid-state detectors and a plurality of collimators, each said collimator having a solid collection angle of at least 0.001 steradians, said plurality of solid-state detectors and said plurality of collimators being mounted to provide a plurality of view from a plurality of non parallel planes around said body and directed toward said body to cover at least 180 degrees around at least a portion of said imagined area, said camera being tailored to image a specific body structure, wherein the arrangement of said plurality of solid-state detectors and said plurality of collimators is tailored to image said specific body structure in said imaged area in a manner that allow the camera to detect at least one of about 1500 photons emitted from the isotope in said imaged area, (c) receiving radiation from said body using said radiation camera; (d) reconstructing and displaying a 3d distribution of said isotope from said received radiation; and using said reconstructed distribution from a medical procedure. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said tailoring comprises: selecting preferred sets of views for measurements, based on one or more of a model of the body structure and an information theoretic measure; and using said preferred sets of views to improve an optimization of the functional information gained when performing measurements on the body structure, in vivo. 3. A method according to claim 2, comprising: identifying at least one preferred sets of views for measurements, based on said received radiation. 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein said camera is programmed to provide a preferred sets of radioactive-emission-measuring views automatically. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein said body structure comprises a prostate. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein said radiation camera comprises an assembly of blocks, the blocks being adapted for individual oscillatory motion, to provide views from different orientations; and wherein said reconstructing uses circuitry adapted to reconstruct an image from signal received by said camera. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein said assembly is adapted for rotational motion around its longitudinal axis, to provide views from different orientations. 8. A method according to claim 6, wherein said camera comprises a housing which does not move with said assembly. 9. A method according to claim 6, wherein said circuitry synchronizes said individual oscillatory motion automatically in response to collected radiation. 10. A method according to claim 6, wherein the structure selected from a group consisting of a prostate, a female reproductive organ, an abdominal organ and a thoracic organ. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein said camera comprises one or more lines of assemblies, each formed as a row of detecting blocks, wherein the blocks are adapted for individual oscillatory motion to provide views from different orientations, and the lines of assemblies are adapted for individual rotational motion around their longitudinal axis, to provide views from different orientations; and wherein reconstructing comprises reconstructing using circuitry configured to reconstruct an image from radiation collected by said detecting blocks. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein said circuitry and said camera are tailored for cardiac imaging. 13. A method according to claim 11, comprising identifying a preferred sets of views for measurements for a portion of a heart, based on models of a location of a pathology that is identified in a specific location in the heart based on a reconstructed image, using said circuitry. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein said camera, comprises: a body; a plurality of radiation detecting blocks, each adapted for at least one rotational motion and mounted on said body. 15. A method according to claim 14, wherein reconstructing comprises generating views from different orientations corresponding to said motion and tailored for imaging a brain. 16. A method according to claim 14, wherein said body is configured as a helmet. 17. A method according to claim 14, wherein said reconstructing comprises generating views from different orientations corresponding to said motion and tailored for imaging a breast, using circuitry. 18. A method according to claim 17, comprising compacting a breast using a breast compactor. 19. A method according to claim 18, wherein said compactor comprises two plates, which compress the breast between them. 20. A method according to claim 18, wherein said compactor comprises a suction cup. 21. A method according to claim 1, wherein said camera comprises a plurality of detecting block units; and wherein receiving radiation comprises: moving the detecting blocks to a position and collecting emission data while stationary; stepping to a new position; and stepping back to an interlaced position intermediate the position and the new position. 22. A method according to claim 21, wherein said stepping and stepping back comprise multiple steps in a first direction followed by multiple steps back. 23. A method according to claim 21, wherein said method is applied during a dynamic study. 24. A method according to claim 1, wherein said camera comprises a plurality of detectors, arranged in blocks of one or more detectors each, wherein each block is provided with independent motion, with respect to the other blocks, so that each block may view a predetermined region of interest, independent of actions of other blocks. 25. A method according to claim 24, where each block includes at least 10 detectors. 26. A method according to claim 1, wherein receiving comprises receiving radiation by scanning preferentially a region of interest of said body. 27. A method according to claim 1, wherein receiving comprises receiving at least one photon from every 100 photons emitted in a region of interest having a minimal dimension of at least 10 cm and reconstructing a clinically useful image therefrom. 28. A method according to claim 1, comprising: performing a second iteration of imaging, for identifying preferred sets of views for measurements, based on a model of a location of a pathology that is identified following said reconstructing. 29. A method according to claim 1, wherein said camera is tailored to be in substantial contact with the body and wherein receiving comprises contacting said body with said radiation camera. 30. A method according to claim 1, wherein said receiving comprises using a mechanical device for approximating said plurality of solid-state detectors to said body during said receiving. 31. A method according to claim 1, wherein said body structure comprises a heart. 32. A method according to claim 1, wherein said camera is configured to be outside a body lumen and comprising positioning said camera outside a body lumen and adjacent said structure during said receiving. 33. A method according to claim 1, wherein said body structure comprises a structure of a pathology. 34. A method according to claim 1, wherein said tailoring of the camera is based on a model of a location of a pathology that is identified by receiving radiation from the body and reconstructing information associated with the distribution of an isotope. 35. A method according to claim 2, wherein said information theoretic measure used includes one or more of reliability, uniformity, separability, reconstruction stability, geometrical features, statistical analysis, source spatial distribution, source temporal distribution and a weighted combination thereof. 36. A method according to claim 2, wherein said information theoretic measure is applied to information related to the body structure. 37. A method according to claim 2, wherein said information theoretic measure is applied to a previously acquired image of the body structure. 38. A method according to claim 2, wherein said performing measurements comprises collecting cardiac imaging data. 39. A method according to claim 2, wherein said performing measurements comprises collecting radiation data from a detector in proximity to the body. 40. A method according to claim 2, wherein said selecting comprises identifying a position for a detector, in proximity to the body, for radiation receiving and wherein said performing measurements comprises moving said detector. 41. A method according to claim 1, wherein said receiving radiation comprises capturing at least 1 photon out of every 1000 photons emitted from said isotope during an imaging session. 42. A method according to claim 1, wherein said reconstructing is performed so as to reconstruct an image of said imaged area in a resolution of about 7.times.7.times.7 Full width at half maximum (FWHM) or better. 43. A method according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of solid-state detectors are arranged in an L-shaped arrangement. 44. A method according to claim 1, wherein the arrangement of said plurality of solid-state detectors is tailored so that said plurality of solid-state detectors capture radiation from a plurality of overlapping regions of said specific body structure. 45. A method according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of solid-state detectors are mounted in a close proximity to said body. 46. A method according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of solid-state detectors are static. 47. A method according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of solid-state detectors are maneuvered by an actuator. 48. A method according to claim 1, wherein said image area confines at least a part of an organ. 49. A method according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of views are captured from a plurality of different orientations. 50. A method according to claim 1, wherein each said collimator having a collimator opening of about 2.46.times.2.46 mm and a length of about 20 mm. 51. A method according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of solid-state detectors are individually controlled. 52. A method according to claim 1, wherein a single collimator aperture is shared by a plurality of detector pixels. 