In an embodiment, the methodology of the present invention is based on the use of an intraoperative navigation system and of a compact alignment guide for alignment of implant components. In an embodiment, an alignment guide of the present invention includes a first component fixable to a bone element; a second mobile component, and a third mobile component, wherein the second mobile component and two control mechanisms form a first link, wherein the two control mechanisms are working in parallel to perform adjustments in two degrees of freedom, wherein the third mobile component and three control mechanisms form a second link, wherein the three control mechanisms are working in parallel to perform adjustments in three additional degrees of freedom, and wherein the first link adjustments and the second link adjustments are performed in series to provide a total adjustment of five degrees of freedom relative to the first component.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An alignment guide for preparing a bone element for receiving an implant comprising: a first component fixable to the bone element comprising: a first bore that accommodates a first ball head fastener; and a second bore that accommodates a second ball head fastener, wherein the first component serves as a fixed rigid body; a second component moveable with respect to the first component comprising: a first ball socket that accommodates a first ball of the first ball head fastener; a second ball socket that accommodates a second ball of the second ball head fastener; and a third ball socket that accommodates a third ball of a third ball head fastener; and a third component moveable with respect to the second component and the first component, the third component comprising: a third bore that accommodates the third ball head fastener; and at least one guide that accommodates a surgical instrument, wherein the first ball head fastener and the second ball head fastener are working in parallel to perform adjustments in up to two degrees of freedom so as to result in up to two degrees of freedom alignment of the at least one guide for preparing the bone element for the implant, and wherein the third ball head fastener adjusts a third additional degree of freedom so as to result in three degrees of freedom alignment of the at least one guide for preparing the bone element for the implant. 2. The alignment guide of claim 1 wherein the first component includes at least one bore for accommodating a fastener for removably fixating the first component to the bone element. 3. The alignment guide of claim 1 wherein adjustments are made to control up to two degrees of freedom selected from the group consisting of flexion/extension angle, varus/valgus angle, distal cut resection level, anterior/posterior positioning, internal/external rotation and medio/lateral positioning. 4. The alignment guide of claim 1 wherein the first component further comprises a navigation tracker of a computer-assisted navigation system. 5. The alignment guide of claim 1 wherein the second component further comprises a navigation tracker of a computer-assisted navigation system. 6. The alignment guide of claim 1 wherein orientation and relative displacement of the second component relative to the first component is continuously adjustable to control the two degrees of freedom. 7. An alignment guide for preparing a bone element for receiving an implant comprising: a first component fixable to the bone element comprising: a first bore that accommodates a first ball head fastener; and a second bore that accommodates a second ball head fastener, wherein the first component serves as a fixed rigid body; a second component moveable with respect to the first component comprising: a first ball socket that accommodates a first ball of the first ball head fastener; a second ball socket that accommodates a second ball of the second ball head fastener; a third ball socket that accommodates a third ball of a third ball head fastener; a fourth ball socket that accommodates a fourth ball of a fourth ball head fastener; and a fifth ball socket that accommodates a fifth ball of a fifth ball head fastener; and a third component moveable with respect to the second component and the first component comprising: a third bore that accommodates the third ball head fastener; a fourth bore that accommodates the fourth ball head fastener; a fifth bore that accommodates the fifth ball head fastener; and at least one guide that accommodates a surgical instrument, wherein the first ball head fastener and the second ball head fastener are working in parallel to perform adjustments in up to two degrees of freedom so as to result in up to two degrees of freedom alignment of the at least one guide for preparing the bone element for the implant, wherein the third ball head fastener, the fourth ball head fastener and the fifth ball head fastener are working in parallel to perform adjustments in up to three additional degrees of freedom so as to result in up to three additional degrees of freedom alignment of the at least one guide for preparing the bone element for the implant, and wherein a total degree of freedom adjustment of the at least one guide relative to the first component is up to 5 degrees of freedom. 8. The alignment guide of claim 7 wherein the first component includes at least one bore for accommodating a fastener for removably fixating the first component to the bone element. 9. The alignment guide of claim 7 wherein adjustments are made to control up to five degrees of freedom selected from the group consisting of flexion/extension angle, varus/valgus angle, distal cut resection level, anterior/posterior positioning, internal/external rotation and medio/lateral positioning. 10. The alignment guide of claim 7 wherein the first component further comprises a navigation tracker of a computer-assisted navigation system. 11. The alignment guide of claim 7 wherein the third component further comprises a navigation tracker of a computer-assisted navigation system. 12. The alignment guide of claim 7 wherein orientation and relative displacement of the second component relative to the first component is continuously adjustable to control the two degrees of freedom. 13. The alignment guide of claim 7 wherein orientation and relative displacement of the third component relative to the second component and the first component is continuously adjustable to control up to three additional degrees of freedom. 