This application discloses active movement based and other video games which may be played over the internet as well in the home or elsewhere. One or two or more persons can play, generally using one or more cameras to determine the relation of an object or a part of a person to a video display on which game related graphics are displayed. Determination of object position and orientation in up to 6 degrees of freedom is disclosed, at data rates sufficient to make game play rewarding.
Claims We claim: 1. An interactive gaming system comprising: a video display; a first hand-held game member including a first target defining a first color; a second hand-held game member including a second target defining a second color different from the first color; a TV camera to scan a field of view encompassing the first and second targets at least 30 times per second and to provide an output; and a computer adapted to distinguish between the first and second targets based on the color of the first and second targets and adapted to determine from the camera output a three dimensional location of at least one of the first and second targets and adapted to control the video display as a function of the three dimensional location. 2. The interactive gaming system of claim 1 wherein the video display provides a video representation of an object controlled by the three dimensional location of the first target. 3. The interactive gaming system of claim 1 wherein the camera is a color camera. 4. The interactive gaming system of claim 1 wherein the first target is retro-reflective. 5. The interactive gaming system of claim 1 wherein the first target is luminescent. 6. The interactive gaming system of claim 5 wherein the luminescent first target includes a solid state light source. 7. The interactive gaming system of claim 1 wherein the first target is proximate an end portion of the first hand-held game member. 8. The interactive gaming system of claim 1 wherein the camera includes one of a CMOS image sensor and a CCD image sensor. 9. The interactive gaming system of claim 1 wherein the first hand-held game member includes an interrupt member to provide a signal to the computer indicating a player command. 10. The interactive gaming system of claim 2 wherein the object is one of a sword and a gun. 11. The interactive gaming system of claim 1 further including a solid state light source to illuminate the first target. 12. The interactive gaming system of claim 1 wherein the target location is determined to subpixel resolution. 13. The interactive gaming system of claim 1 wherein each of the first and second targets includes a single light emitting element. 14. The interactive gaming system of claim 1 wherein the TV camera is adapted to scan the field of view at least 60 times per second. 