An apparatus for securing an article, a carrier including the apparatus, and a method involving the apparatus are disclosed. The apparatus includes a base having a channel and a pivot post, an engagement member for selectively engaging the article, a rotatable actuation member having a pivot feature corresponding to the pivot post, and a positioning member secured to the base. The engagement member is slidably positionable in the channel of the base, the positioning member establishes travel limits for the rotatable actuation member, and the positioning member urges the engagement member toward the article. Rotation of the rotatable actuation member slides the engagement member along the channel of the base, thereby securing the article by the force provided by the positioning member.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for securing an article, the apparatus comprising: a base having a channel and a pivot post; an engagement member for selectively engaging the article, the engagement member being slidably positionable in the channel of the base; a rotatable actuation member having a pivot feature corresponding to the pivot post; and a positioning member secured to the base, establishing travel limits for the rotatable actuation member, and providing force onto the engagement member, urging the engagement member toward the article; and wherein rotation of the rotatable actuation member slides the engagement member along the channel of the base thereby securing the article by the force provided by the positioning member. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rotatable actuation member further comprises a first pin and a second pin, the first pin being configured for actuation and the second pin being configured for urging the engagement member upon the first pin being actuated. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first pin is of sufficient length for external actuation. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first pin and the second pin are pressed into and welded to the rotatable actuation member. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the actuation of the rotatable actuation member produces a detenting effect. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein reverse rotation of the actuated rotatable actuation member slides the engagement member in the channel of the base away from the article thereby releasing the article. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the engagement member has thermal conductivity of less than about 10 W/mk. 8. A carrier for securing an article, the carrier comprising: at least two apparatuses positioned within the frame, each apparatus comprising: a base having a channel and a pivot post; an engagement member for selectively engaging the article, the engagement member being slidably positionable in the channel of the base; a rotatable actuation member having a pivot feature corresponding to the pivot post; a positioning member secured to the base, establishing travel limits for the rotatable actuation member, and providing force onto the engagement member, urging the engagement member toward the article; and wherein rotation of the rotatable actuation member slides the engagement member along the channel of the base thereby securing the article by the force provided by the positioning member; a frame for securing the article; and a plurality of support pads positioned in the frame; wherein the frame and the plurality of support pads restrain movement of the article in at least four directions; and wherein rotation of the rotatable actuation member of one or more of the at least two apparatuses restrains movement of the article in at least a fifth and sixth direction. 9. The carrier of claim 8, wherein the rotatable actuation member of the at least two apparatuses further comprises a first pin and a second pin, the first pin being configured for actuation and the second pin being configured for urging the engagement member upon the first pin being actuated. 10. The carrier of claim 9, wherein the first pin is of sufficient length for external actuation. 11. The carrier of claim 9, wherein the first pin and the second pin are pressed and welded to the rotatable actuation member. 12. The carrier of claim 8, wherein the actuation of the rotatable actuation member of the first apparatus produces a detenting effect. 13. The carrier of claim 12, wherein reverse rotation of the actuated rotatable actuation member slides the engagement member in the channel of the base away from the article thereby releasing the article. 14. The carrier of claim 8, wherein the engagement member of the first apparatus has a thermal conductivity of less than about 10 W/mk. 15. A method of securing an article, the method comprising: providing an apparatus, the apparatus comprising: a base having a channel and a pivot post; an engagement member for selectively engaging the article, the engagement member being slidably positionable in the channel of the base; a rotatable actuation member having a pivot feature corresponding to the pivot post; and a positioning member secured to the base, establishing travel limits for the rotatable actuation member, and providing force onto the engagement member, urging the engagement member toward the article; and wherein rotation of the rotatable actuation member slides the engagement member in the channel of the base thereby securing the article by the force provided by the positioning member; actuating the rotatable actuation member; rotating the rotatable actuation member to slide the engagement member in the channel to engage the article; and wherein the positioning member urges the engagement member toward the article. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the rotatable actuation member further comprises a first pin and a second pin, the first pin being configured for actuation and the second pin being configured for urging the engagement member upon the first pin being actuated. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the actuation is robotic actuation. 18. The method of claim 15, further comprising laterally adjusting pads to align and support the article. 19. The method of claim 15, further comprising producing a detenting effect by the actuation of the rotatable actuation member. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising releasing the article by reverse rotation of the actuated rotatable actuation member. 