A feedthrough flat-through capacitor includes a capacitor having a first and second set of electrode plates, a first feedthrough passageway through the capacitor, a first lead disposed within the first feedthrough passageway and conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates, a second feedthrough passageway through the capacitor disposed remote from the first feedthrough passageway, and a second lead disposed within the second feedthrough passageway and conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates. The second set of electrode plates are typically conductively coupled to a ground. An EMI shield may be provided to electromagnetically isolate the first lead from the second lead.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A feedthrough flat-through capacitor, comprising: a) a capacitor having at least one active electrode plate and at least one ground electrode plate conductively coupled to a ground; b) a first feedthrough passageway extending through the capacitor; c) a first lead disposed within the first feedthrough passageway and conductively coupled to the active electrode plate; d) a second feedthrough passageway extending through the capacitor remote from the first feedthrough passageway; and e) a second lead disposed within the second feedthrough passageway and conductively coupled to the active electrode plate. 2. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 1, including an EMI shield conductively coupled to the ground electrode plate. 3. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 2, wherein the ground electrode plate is configured to be conductively couplable to a housing for an active implantable medical device (AIMD). 4. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 2, wherein the EMI shield electromagnetically isolates the first lead from the second lead. 5. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 2, wherein the EMI shield includes a cover assembly or a shield plate disposed adjacent to the capacitor. 6. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 5, wherein the capacitor is at least partially disposed within the cover assembly. 7. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 5, including a metallization surface disposed on an exterior surface of the capacitor, the metallization surface being conductively coupled to the ground electrode plate. 8. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 1 or 2, wherein the first and second leads extend from opposite sides of the capacitor. 9. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 8, wherein the second lead is electrically connected to at least one of the group of an elongated leadwire, a wire bond pad, and a circuit trace. 10. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 9, wherein the circuit trace is disposed along or within a circuit board or a substrate. 11. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 8, wherein the second lead extends to a via hole in a circuit board or a substrate. 12. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 1, wherein there are a plurality of active electrode plates. 13. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 1 or 2, wherein the first and second leads extend through the ground electrode plate in non-conductive relation. 14. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claims 12 or 13, wherein at least one of the first and second leads comprise a plurality of leads disposed within respective feedthrough passageways extending though the capacitor and conductively coupled to the active electrode plate. 15. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 14, wherein each of the plurality of leads is conductively coupled to a respective active electrode plate. 16. A feedthrough flat-through capacitor, comprising: a) a capacitor having a plurality of active electrode plates and at least one ground electrode plate; b) a plurality of feedthrough passageways extending into the capacitor and spaced from one another; c) a plurality of leads, each disposed within a respective one of the feedthrough passageways and conductively coupled to one of the active electrode plates, wherein each lead extends through the ground electrode plate in non-conductive relation; and d) an EMI shield disposed about at least one of the plurality of leads and being conductively coupled to the ground electrode plate. 17. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 16, wherein the EMI shield includes a cover assembly or a shield plate disposed adjacent to the capacitor. 18. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 17, including a metallization surface disposed on an exterior surface of the capacitor, the metallization surface being conductively coupled to the ground electrode plate. 19. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 17, wherein the capacitor is at least partially disposed within the cover assembly. 20. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 16, wherein at least one of the leads is conductively coupled to a wire bond pad or a circuit trace and extends to a via hole in a circuit board. 21. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 20, wherein the circuit trace is disposed along or within a circuit board. 22. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 16, wherein the plurality of active electrode plates comprises a plurality of sets of active electrode plates. 23. A feedthrough flat-through capacitor, comprising: a) a capacitor having at least one active electrode plate and at least one ground electrode plate; b) a first feedthrough lead at least partially disposed within the capacitor and conductively coupled to the active electrode plate; and c) a second feedthrough lead at least partially disposed within the capacitor remotely relative to the first feedthrough lead and conductively coupled to the first feedthrough lead through the active electrode plate. 24. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 23, including an EMI shield for electromagnetically isolating the first feedthrough lead from the second feedthrough lead. 25. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 24, wherein the ground electrode plate is conductively coupled to the EMI shield. 26. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 25, wherein the EMI shield is configured to be conductively couplable to a housing for an active implantable medical device (AIMD). 27. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 23, 24, or 25, wherein the first and second feedthrough leads extend from opposite sides of the capacitor. 28. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 27, wherein the second feedthrough lead is electrically connected to at least one of the group consisting of an elongated leadwire, a wire bond pad, and a circuit trace. 29. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 23, wherein there are a plurality of active electrode plates. 30. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 29, wherein each of the active electrode plates has a distinct capacitive characteristic. 31. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 23, 24, or 25, wherein the first and second feedthrough leads extend through the ground electrode plate in non-conductive relation. 32. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 24 or 25, wherein the EMI shield includes a cover assembly or a shield plate disposed adjacent to the capacitor. 33. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 32, wherein the capacitor is at least partially disposed within the cover assembly. 34. The feedthrough flat-through capacitor of claim 32, including a metallization surface disposed on an exterior surface of the capacitor, the metallization surface being conductively coupled to the ground electrode plate. 35. A feedthrough flat-through capacitor, comprising: a) a capacitor having at least one active electrode plate and at least one ground electrode plate conductively coupled to a ground; b) a first feedthrough passageway extending through the capacitor; c) a first lead disposed within the first feedthrough passageway and conductively coupled to the active electrode plate; d) a second feedthrough passageway extending through the capacitor remote from the first feedthrough passageway; and e) a second lead disposed within the second feedthrough passageway and conductively coupled to active electrode plate. 