An articulated arm CMM comprises a plurality of transfer members, a plurality of articulation members connecting at least two transfer members to each other, a coordinate acquisition member at a distal end, and a base at a proximal end. At least two of the articulation members can include at least one encoder and the at least two encoders can both be enclosed within a single monoblock housing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated arm CMM system comprising: an articulated arm comprising a plurality of articulated arm members, a coordinate acquisition member at a distal end, a base at a proximal end, and a single docking portion substantially at the coordinate acquisition member; and two or more modular handles comprising electronics and configured to be removably connected to the articulated arm at the single docking portion, wherein a first modular handle provides a first additional electronic feature or functionality and a second modular handle provides a second additional electronic feature or functionality distinct from the first additional electronic feature or functionality to the articulated arm. 2. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 1, wherein the electronics are thermally isolated from the articulated arm. 3. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 1, wherein the handles are thermally isolated from the articulated arm when removable connected to the articulated arm at the single docking portion. 4. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 1, wherein at least one modular handle comprises a data storage device. 5. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 4, wherein at least one modular handle comprises instructions for arm operation. 6. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 1, wherein at least one modular handle comprises a wireless capability for data transfer. 7. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 1, wherein at least one modular handle comprises a battery. 8. An articulated arm CMM system comprising: an articulated arm comprising a plurality of articulated arm members, a coordinate acquisition member at a distal end, a base at a proximal end, and a single docking portion substantially at the coordinate acquisition member; and a modular handle comprising electronics and removably connected to the articulated arm at the single docking portion, the modular handle being capable of providing modular functionality, wherein the articulated arm is configured to measure and output a position of an end of the articulated arm. 9. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 8, wherein the modular handle provides said modular functionality through the single docking portion. 10. The articulated arm CMM of system claim 8, wherein the electronics are thermally isolated from the articulated arm. 11. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 8, the handle is thermally isolated from the articulated arm. 12. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 8, wherein the handle comprises a data storage device. 13. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 12, wherein the handle comprises instructions for arm operation. 14. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 8, wherein the handle comprises a wireless capability for data transfer. 15. The articulated arm CMM system of claim 8, wherein the handle comprises a battery. 16. An articulated arm CMM comprising: an articulated arm comprising a plurality of articulated arm members, a coordinate acquisition member at a distal end, a base at a proximal end, and a single docking portion substantially at the coordinate acquisition member, wherein the docking portion is configured to form a connection with a modular handle comprising electronics and removably connected to the articulated arm at the single docking portion, the modular handle being capable of providing modular functionality, and wherein the articulated arm is configured to measure and output a position of an end of the articulated arm. 17. The articulated arm CMM of claim 16, wherein the articulated arm is configured to measure and output a position of an end of the articulated arm with or without a modular handle connected. 18. The articulated arm CMM of claim 17, wherein the articulated arm is configured to receive instructions through the docking portion. 19. The articulated arm CMM of claim 16, wherein the docking portion is configured to thermally isolate the modular handle from the articulated arm CMM. 20. The articulated arm CMM of claim 16, wherein the docking portion is configured to form a data connection. 21. The articulated arm CMM of claim 16, wherein the articulated arm is configured to receive power through the docking portion. 22. A modular handle for an articulated arm CMM system comprising a modular design and electronics, the modular handle being configured to removably attach to the articulated arm CMM system, and further being configured to provide an additional electronic feature or functionality to the articulated arm CMM. 23. The modular handle of claim 22, wherein the electronics are configured to be thermally isolated from the articulated arm CMM system by the modular handle. 24. The modular handle of claim 22, wherein the handle further comprises a data storage device. 25. The modular handle of claim 24, wherein the handle comprises instructions for arm operation. 26. The modular handle of claim 22, wherein the handle comprises a wireless capability for data transfer. 27. The modular handle of claim 22, wherein the handle comprises a battery. 28. The modular handle of claim 22, wherein the modular handle is configured to removably attach to the articulated arm CMM system with bolts. 29. The modular handle of claim 22, wherein the modular handle is configured to removably attach to the articulated arm CMM system with snaps. 30. The modular handle of claim 22, wherein the modular handle is configured to removably attach to the articulated arm CMM system with clamps. 31. A method of providing modular functionality to an articulated arm CMM comprising: attaching a first modular handle to an articulated arm CMM at a docking portion to provide a first additional feature or functionality to the articulated arm CMM; measuring one or more coordinates with the articulated arm CMM and utilizing the first additional feature or functionality; replacing the first modular handle with a second modular handle at the docking portion to provide a second additional feature or functionality to the articulated arm CMM; and measuring one or more coordinates with the articulated arm CMM and utilizing the second additional feature or functionality. 32. The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of measuring one or more coordinates with the articulated arm CMM while no modular handle is attached to the articulated arm CMM. 33. The method of claim 31, wherein the step of replacing is done while the articulated arm CMM is still in use. 34. The method of claim 31, wherein the step of attaching is performed with bolts. 35. The method of claim 31, wherein the step of attaching is performed with snaps. 36. The method of claim 31, wherein the step of attaching is performed with clamps. 37. The method of claim 31, wherein at least one of the modular handles comprises electronics configured to be thermally isolated from the articulated arm CMM system by the modular handle. 38. The method of claim 31, wherein the modular handles are configured to be thermally isolated from the articulated arm CMM system by the docking portion. 39. The method of claim 31, wherein at least one of the modular handles comprises a data storage device. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein the at least one handle comprises instructions for arm operation. 41. The method of claim 31, wherein at least one of the modular handles comprises a wireless capability for data transfer. 42. The method of claim 31, wherein at least one of the modular handles comprises a battery. 