A robot joint comprising first and second link members having respective congruent arcuate surfaces joined by complementary flexible metal bands and having an integral potentiometer transducer mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electromechanical robotic joint member comprising: first and second separate link members for the robotic joint, with said members having respective oppositely disposed joint surfaces adjacent to and facing one another with at least one of said joint surfaces being curved; a plurality of flexible and electrically-conductive bands for structurally joining the separate link members into an articulate joint and for varying an electrical resistance as said link members, so joined, are articulated in rolling contact with respect to one another, said plurality of bands characterized by: first band means mounted on the upper surface of said first link member and the under surface of said link member; second band means mounted on the upper surface of said second link member and on the under surface of said first link; a first conductive surface mounted on one of said first and second link members, said first conductive surface exhibiting a selected impedance characteristic and having a first terminal contact point; and a second flexible conductive surface having a second terminal point and also mounted on one of said first and second link members and held by said first and second band means in rolling contact with said first conductive surface and positioned to wrap onto and unwrap therefrom, said second flexible conductive surface being positioned to roll on and off said first conductive surface such that relative movement between said first and second link members produces a variation in the impedance between said terminal contact points. 2. The joint of claim 1 wherein said oppositely disposed surfaces are both curved. 3. The joint of claim 1 wherein said oppositely disposed surfaces are circular arcs. 4. The joint of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein said first band means comprises a first band member and a second band member and wherein said second band means comprises a third band member disposed between said first and second band members. 5. The joint of claim 1 wherein said first band means comprises a first band member and a second band member, wherein said second band means comprises a third band member disposed between said first and second band members, and wherein said first, second and third band members each comprise flexible metallic strips. 6. The joint of claim 1 wherein said first conductive surface comprises a resistive layer. 7. The joint of claim 6 wherein said second conductive surface comprises a flexible ribbon conductor. 