Structured light patterns are introduced into the arc vicinity within the field of view of the integral optical sensor on a gas tungsten arc welding torch. Processing the image yields data needed to guide the torch and control and assess the weld process. The optical welding torch has a projector system with a remote light source and flexible fiber optic bundle over which the light pattern passes to an exit projection and relay assembly mounted on the torch. A programmable laser pattern projector, useful for other applications, has a beam deflection device that traces a two-dimensional pattern on the entrance of a coherent fiber optic bundle; no moving parts or electrical connections are needed at the terminal end. An optional modulator changes the pattern intensity spatially or temporally.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic welding system comprising: a gas tungsten arc welding torch having a tungsten electrode inside of a gas nozzle and an integral optical vision system whose axis passes through said gas nozzle; said torch in operation establishing an electric arc between said electrode and a workpiece having a joint to be welded, and said optical vision system having a field of view containing the weld puddle that is produced; a projector system which generates a programmable light pattern and is comprised of a light beam source, a first coherent fiber optic bundle, a programmable beam deflection device that traces a particular light pattern on the face of said fiber optic bundle, and an exit optical assembly on said torch comprised of means for mounting the other end of said fiber optic bundle, and a lens system to image the transmitted light pattern onto the workpiece within said field of view; said optical vision system providing an image on the face of a second coherent fiber optic bundle through which it is transmitted to a camera and a controller, said image containing said weld puddle, joint and remelt zone ahead of and behind said puddle, and projected light pattern. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said light pattern is focused onto said workpiece and joint ahead of said weld puddle to yield navigational information to control motion of said welding torch. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said light pattern is focused onto said weld puddle and workpiece to yield information on weld puddle topography and behavior and weld quality. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said light pattern is focused onto said remelt zone and workpiece to yield information for post-weld quality analysis. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein said light beam source is a laser, and a frequency selective optical filter in the camera optical path to pass light at the laser frequency and attenuate light at the other frequencies. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein said projector system includes means for programmably modulating the intensity of the light beam from said source. 7. A robotic welding system comprising: an arc welding torch having an electrode inside of a gas nozzle and an integral optical vision system; said torch in operation establishing an electric arc between said electrode and a workpiece having a joint to be welded, and said optical vision system having a field of view containing the molten weld puddle that is produced; a projector system which has a remote light source and includes a coherent fiber optic bundle and means for forming a structured light pattern and focusing it on one end of said fiber optic bundle, and an exit optical assembly on said torch that holds the other end of said fiber optic bundle and projects the transmitted light pattern onto said workpiece within said field of view; said optical vision system providing an image of the workpiece weld puddle and surrounding weld region and projected light pattern; and means for transferring said image to a remote controller. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said structured light pattern is a plurality of thin, widely spaced parallel light stripes. 9. The system of claim 7 wherein said structured light pattern is at least two thin parallel light stripes imaged onto said workpiece and joint ahead of said weld puddle to provide transverse profiles and navigational information to control motion of said welding torch. 10. The system of claim 7 wherein said structured light pattern is a plurality of thin parallel light stripes imaged onto said weld puddle and workpiece to provide transverse profiles and information on weld puddle shape and behavior to control the welding process. 11. The system of claim 7 wherein said structured light pattern is a plurality of thin parallel light stripes imaged onto said workpiece and remelt zone behind said weld puddle to provide transverse profiles for post-weld quality analysis. 12. A robotic welding system comprising: an arc welding torch having an electrode inside of a gas nozzle and an integral optical vision system; said torch in operation establishing an electric arc between said electrode and a workpiece having a joint to be welded, and said optical vision system having a field of view containing the molten weld puddle that is produced; a projector system which generates a programmable light pattern and is comprised of a remote light source, a coherent fiber optic bundle, means for deflecting a light beam to trace a particular light pattern on the face of said fiber optic bundle, and an exit optical assembly on said torch having means for holding the other end of said fiber optic bundle and projecting the transmitted light pattern onto said workpiece within said field of view; said optical vision system providing an image of the workpiece weld puddle and surrounding weld region and projected light pattern; and means for transferring said image to a remote controller. 