An improved arrangement for driving threaded screw fasteners both manually and automatically utilizes mating conformations in the fastener head and driver including a central, preferably conical, depression in the head and a complementally shaped central projection extending from the driving tool. Further, the head is formed with slots, less deep than the depression, which open both at the depression and at the outer margins of the head. The driver is formed with corresponding blade sections. The central projection and depression are formed such that force along axis of the driver toward the head and rotational force about the driver axis tend to force the fastener axis to alignment with the driver axis.
Claims I claim: 1. A fastening system for threading a fastener into a work piece comprising, in combination: a threaded fastener having a threaded shaft and a head conformed at the side of the head away from the shaft by a central depression and slots extending radially from the depression and opening at the sides of the head; a driver rotatable about an axis and formed with a projection at one end thereof to interfit with the central depression of said head and with a pair of rectangular blade elements capable of interfitting with respectively associated ones of said slots when the projection of the driver is disposed at least partially within said depression of the head; and further comprising holding means for releasibly holding said fastener such that the axis of its shaft and the depression of its head are substantially aligned with the rotational axis of said driver; driver control means for moving said driver and head relative to one another in the direction of said axis and rotationally about said axis to affect mating of the projection and blades with the depression and slots of the head without releasing said fastener from said holding means; and means for preventing movement of said holding means with said fastener as an incident to rotation of the fastener and for forcing said fastener from said holder independently of engagement of said head, and independently of any engagement of said holder, with any work piece. 2. The invention defined in claim 1 which further comprises means for moving said fastener and said driver and said holding means together in the direction of the rotational axis of said driver. 3. The invention defined in claim 2 which further comprises means for detecting the presence of a work element within a predetermined distance of said driver. 4. The invention defined in claim 3 in which said central depression and said extension continue to a point. 5. The invention defined in claim 4 in which the depth of the depression is at least twice the depth of said slots and in which the walls of the depression are tapered at an angle of between thirty-five and forty degrees to the axis of the threaded shaft. 6. A fastening system for threading a fastener into a work piece comprising, in combination: a threaded fastener having a threaded shaft and a head conformed at the side of the head away from the shaft by a central depression and slots extending radially from the depression and opening at the sides of the head; a driver rotatable about an axis and formed with a projection at one end thereof to interfit with the central depression of said head and with a pair of rectangular blade elements capable of interfitting with respectively associated ones of said slots when the projection of the driver is disposed at least partially within said depression of the head; and said central depression and said projection being right conical in shape and the axis of the conical shape of the driver coinciding with the axis of rotation of the driver, and the axis of the conical shape of the depression coinciding with the axis of said threaded shaft; and the sides of said conical shapes forming an angle with their respective axes whose magnitude is between thirty-five and forty degrees. 7. The invention defined in claim 6 in which said depression and said projection continue to a point. 8. The invention defined in claim 7 in which the depth of the depression is approximately twice the depth of said slots. 9. For use with a driver having driving conformations to mate with the driver receiving conformations of its head, a threaded fastener having a threaded shaft and a head fixed to one end of the shaft, the head being formed with a central depression and slots extending radially from said central depression, said slots opening both at the depression and at the margins of said head; said slots being aligned with a diameter of said head; said depression being formed by walls tapered to smaller size in the direction of its depth; said slots being formed with substantially parallel sides and a bottom wall which is perpendicular to the sides and to the axis of said shaft; and the depth of the depression being at least twice the depth of said slots and the walls of the depression being tapered at an angle of between thirty-five and forty degrees to the axis of the threaded shaft. 