A reconfigurable toy is provided that can simulate a van truck. The upper housing assembly or van body portion is removably attached to a lower frame assembly. The van body portion can be reconverted into a secondary vehicle. The lower frame assembly can be reconverted into a robotic figure to provide independent play action.
Claims I claim: 1. A reconfigurable toy comprising: an upper housing assembly and a lower frame assembly that are removably connected together to form a configuration simulating a vehicle, the lower frame assembly includes a bifurcated frame member that respectively mounts a pair of pivotal side frame members that form the forward side portions of a vehicle in a first configuration and the arm appendages of a robot in a second configuration, a pair of pivotal rear frame members that form vehicle underframe sections in a first configuration and robot feet in a second configuration and a front panel member that forms a front portion of the vehicle in a first configuration and an upper portion of the robot in a second configuration, the upper housing assembly includes a pair of pivotal side plates that form the sides and top of a vehicle body in a first configuration and a portion of the floor and side walls of a secondary vehicle in a second configuration, a pivotal rear panel that forms a rear portion of a vehicle body in a first configuration and a front portion of a secondary vehicle in a second configuration wherein the upper housing assembly can be removed to create a secondary vehicle or work station and the lower frame assembly can be converted into a robot. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein the upper housing assembly further includes a simulated launcher mounted on the upper side thereof and a plurality of simulated crawler treads pivotally housed for extension on the lower side thereof. 3. The invention of claim 1 wherein the upper housing assembly is configured to simulate a van body. 4. The invention of claim 1 wherein the pivotal side frame members support the front wheels of the vehicle. 5. The invention of claim 4 wherein the bifurcated frame member includes a pair of rear frame portions, each supporting a rear wheel and the pivotal rear frame members rotate about the respective rear wheels. 