A cam-actuated robotic manipulator system comprising an articulated robot arm adapted for multiple degrees of angular motion, and an actuator system which includes series-connected four-bar linkages and a cam input mechanism for controlling each degree of motion of the robot arm. The several series-connected four-bar linkages for each degree of motion share at least some common axes of rotation, one of which is position-variable for adjusting output position of the corresponding manipulator arm segment for a given cam input. The input mechanism to each four-bar linkage arrangement comprises conjugate cams and conjugate cam followers having an overload mechanism connected therebetween to detect obstruction to movement of the corresponding arm segment for disengaging the cam drive mechanism, and thereby preventing damage to the robot manipulator arm and actuator.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A manipulator system comprising support means; a manipulator arm carried by said support means for pivotal movement about at least one axis; four-bar linkage means including a first bar defined between first and second pivot axes disposed at predetermined positions with respect to said support means, second and third bars respectively pivotally mounted at said first and second pivot axes, and a fourth bar pivotally connected to said second and third bars at positions spaced from said first and second axes; drive means coupled to said second bar; means coupling said third bar to said manipulator arm; and means for variably positioning said second axis with respect to said support means for varying amplification between said drive means and said manipulator arm, said variable positioning means comprising a bell crank carried by said support means to pivot about a fixed axis, means pivotally mounting said third bar to one end of said bell crank to define said second axis, and means coupled to the opposite end of said bell crank for pivoting said bell crank with respect to said support means. 2. A manipulator system comprising support means; a manipulator arm carried by said support means for pivotal movement about at least one axis; actuator means carried by said support means for controlling pivotal motion of said manipulator arm about said axis, said actuator means comprising four-bar linkage means including a first bar defined between first and second pivot axes disposed at predetermined positions with respect to said support means, second and third motor for rotating said cam means about a cam axis and cam follower means including a link, means mounting said link to pivot about a fixed axis with respect to said support means, means carried at one end of said link for engaging said cam and means coupling said link to said second bar; and means for locking said four-bar linkage means to permit removal of said cam means including an arm affixed to said link to pivot conjointly with said link about said fixed axis, and means adapted selectively to engage an end of said arm remote from said fixed axis for locking said arm against rotation about said fixed axis. 3. The manipulator system set forth in claim 2 wherein said means adapted for selective engagement comprises a shaft rotatably carried by said support means, means providing a slot in said shaft adjacent said remote end of said arm for normally permitting free movement of said end of said arm through said slot and means adapted to engage said end of said arm upon rotation of said shaft to lock said arm against rotation about said fixed axis. 4. A manipulator system comprising support means; a manipulator arm carried by said support means for pivotal movement about at least one axis; actuator means carried by said support means for controlling pivotal motion of said manipulator arm about said axis, said actuator means comprising four-bar linkage means including a first bar defined between first and second pivot axes disposed at predetermined positions with respect to said support means, second and third bars respectively pivotally mounted at said first and second pivot axes, and a fourth bar pivotally connected to said second and third bars at positions spaced from said first and second axes, means coupling said third bar to said manipulator arm, and drive means comprising cam means, means including a drive motor for rotating said cam means about a cam axis and cam follower means coupling said cam means to said second bar; said cam means comprising conjugate cams mounted for corotation about said cam axis, and said cam follower means comprising first and second bell cranks mounted to pivot about respective fixed axes with respect to said support means, means at one end of each said bell crank for engaging the associated said conjugate cam, and means extending between said bell cranks remotely of said cams for biasing said cam engaging means into engagement with said cams; and means carried by said bell cranks and responsive to variation in position of said bell cranks with respect to each other for indicating obstruction to movement of said four-bar linkage means and said manipulator arm. 5. The manipulator system set forth in claim 4 wherein said obstruction indicating means comprises proximity detection means operatively carried at ends of said bell cranks remote from said cam means. 6. A manipulator system comprising support means; a manipulator arm carried by said support means for pivotal movement about at least one axis and including at least a first arm segment pivotally mounted to said support means and a second arm segment carried by said first arm segment for independent pivotal movement with respect to said first arm segment and said support means; actuator means carried by said support means for controlling pivotal motion of said manipulator arm, said actuator means comprising first and second four-bar linkage means each including a first bar defined between respective first and second pivot axes disposed at predetermined positions with respect to said support means, second and third bars respectively pivotally mounted at said first and second pivot axes, and a fourth bar pivotally connected to said second and third bars at positions spaced from said first and second axes, first and second drive means respectively coupled to the associated said second bar of said first and second four-bar linkage means, said first and second four-bar linkage means being carried by said support means to provide respective first and second outputs on a common axis of rotation; and telescoping first and second output means carried for independent rotation on said common axis for transmitting motion of the said third bars of said first and second four-bar linkage means to said first and second arm segments independently of each other. 7. The manipulator system set forth in claim 6 wherein said transmitting means further comprises means directly coupling the inner of said first and second telescoping means to said first arm segment, and endless drive means extending along said first arm segment and coupling the outer of said telescoping means to said second arm segment. 8. The manipulator system set forth in claim 7 wherein said manipulator arm additionally comprises a third arm segment carried by said second arm segment for independent pivotal movement, wherein said four-bar linkage means comprises third four-bar linkage means carried by said support means, third drive means coupled to said third four-bar linkage means, and means for transmitting motion of said third four-bar linkage means to said third arm segment independently of said first and second arm segments. 9. The manipulator system set forth in claim 8 wherein said third four-bar linkage means is carried by said support means to provide an output on said common axis, and wherein said transmitting means comprises endless drive means extending along said first and second arm segments. 10. The manipulator system set forth in claim 6 wherein all of said drive means comprise corresponding cam means mounted for rotation on a common axis, means for rotating said cam means conjointly and means responsive to each said cam means for controlling operation of a corresponding said four-bar linkage means. 11. A manipulator system comprising support means; a manipulator arm including at least a first arm segment pivotally carried by said support means and a second arm segment carried by said first arm segment for independent pivotal movement with respect to said first arm segment and said support means; first and second four-bar linkage means each including a first bar defined between respective first and second pivot axes disposed at predetermined positions with respect to said support means, second and third bars respectively pivotally mounted at said first and second pivot axes, and a fourth bar pivotally connected to said second and third bars at positions spaced from said first and second axes; means for transmitting motion of each said third bar to a corresponding said arm segment independently of each other; and drive means comprising first and second cam means, means for conjointly rotating said cam means about a common cam axis, and first and second cam follower means respectively coupling each of said cam means to an associated said second bar. 12. The manipulator system set forth in claim 11 wherein each said cam means comprises conjugate cams mounted for corotation about said cam axis; and wherein each said cam follower means comprises first and second bell cranks mounted to pivot about respective fixed axes with respect to said support means, means at one end of each said bell crank for engaging the associated said conjugate cam, and means extending between said bell cranks remotely of said cams for biasing said cam engaging means into engagement with said cams. 13. The manipulator system set forth in claim 12 further comprising means carried by said bell cranks and responsive to variation in position of said bell cranks with respect to each other for indicating obstruction to movement of said four-bar linkage means and said manipulator arm. 14. The manipulator system set forth in claim 11 further comprising means defining at least some common pivot axes between said first and second four-bar linkage means. 15. The manipulator system set forth in claim 14 or 11 wherein said first and second four-bar linkage means are carried by said support means to provide respective first and second outputs on a common axis of rotation, and wherein said transmitting means comprises telescoping first and second output means carried for independent rotation on said common axis. 16. The manipulator system set forth in claim 11 wherein said manipulator arm additionally comprises a third arm segment carried by said second arm segment for independent pivotal movement; and wherein said system further comprises third four-bar linkage means carried by said support means, third cam means coupled for conjoint rotation with said first and second cam means about said common cam axis, third cam follower means coupling said third cam means to said third four-bar linkage means, and means for transmitting motion of said third four-bar linkage means to said third arm segment. 17. The manipulator system set forth in claim 16 wherein said first, second and third four-bar linkage means are carried by said support means to provide respective first, second and third outputs on a common axis of rotation, said transmitting means coupling said outputs to respective ones of said arm segments. 18. The manipulator system set forth in claim 11 further comprising means coupled to each of said four-bar linkage means at one of said first and second axes for individually varying operation of each said four-bar linkage means independently of each other and independently of said drive means. 19. The manipulator system set forth in claim 18 wherein said operation-varying means comprises means for varying position of one of said first and second axes with respect to said support means. 20. The manipulator system set forth in claim 4, 6 or 11 further comprising means mounting said support means for rotation about a vertical axis, and means for controlling rotation of said support means about said vertical axis independently of motion imparted to said manipulator arm. 