An integrated array of pressure transducers capable of producing an analog output voltage representative of the applied pressure is proposed. The individual transducing elements (16) are defined by a three-layer structure including a thin layer of piezoelectric material (10) disposed between a reference potential plate (12) and a plurality of electrodes (15) contained in a silicon substrate (14). A force applied to a localized portion of the reference plate will cause a deflection of the piezoelectric material towards the electrodes on the substrate, inducing a capacitive charge on the electrode in the localized area. This capacitance is stores at a node A associated with the transducing element, and may be interrogated by a sensing circuit (18) located in the silicon substrate. Since the induced charge is directly proportional to the applied force, a measurement of the output voltage from node A will yield a direct indication of the localized force applied to the sensor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An analog integrated circuit pressure sensor comprising a pressure sensitive piezoelectric material layer (10) having a substantially parallel top and bottom surfaces; a silicon substrate layer (14) disposed underneath the bottom surface of said pressure sensitive piezoelectric material and including a plurality of individual electrodes (15) formed on the surface thereof and in direct contact with said bottom surface of said piezoelectric material; a ground plane layer (12) disposed directly in contact with the top surface of said piezoelectric material, the combination of said ground plane layer, said piezoelectric material layer, and said plurality of individual electrodes being defined as a plurality of capacitive transducing elements (16); and a layer of compliant material (20) disposed to cover the major exposed surface of said ground plane layer and capable of being locally displaced towards said silicon substrate by a locally applied pressure, said locally applied pressure inducing a charge on a capacitive transducing element of said plurality of transducing elements located in the region of said applied force for producing as an output of said pressure sensor an analog voltage signal proportional to the force of the locally applied pressure. 2. An analog integrated pressure sensor formed in accordance with claim 1 wherein the pressure sensor further comprises a plurality of switching elements (36), each switching element connected to a separate one the plurality of individual transducing elements; and a plurality of amplifiers (40), each amplifier connected to a separate subset of said plurality of switching elements for receiving as an input the plurality of output voltages produced by the associated subset of transducing elements and producing as an output an analog voltage equal to the combination of the plurality of output voltages produced by the associated subset of transducing elements. 3. An analog integrated circuit pressure sensor formed in accordance with claim 2 wherein the plurality of individual electrodes included in the silicon substrate are arranged in an array structure comprising a plurality of N rows and a plurality of M columns, where N may be equal to M. 4. An analog integrated circuit pressure sensor formed in accordance with claim 3 wherein each amplifier of the plurality of amplifiers is associated with a separate column of the M columns of individual electrodes. 5. An analog integrated circuit pressure sensor formed in accordance with claim 1 wherein the pressure sensitive piezoelectric material comprises polyvinylidene fluoride. 