A cantilever tube for carrying loaded wafer boats into a diffusion furnace and confining flow of gas through the wafers includes an elongated slot extending from an open end of the tube to a predetermined region in which the wafer boats are positioned, the wafer boats abutting each other and forming a sealing cover for the elongated slot. A narrow boat carrier supported on a carriage system extends through the elongated slot and carries a wafer boat loaded with wafers into the open end and to the predetermined region in the cantilever tube without allowing either the carrier, or the wafer boat, or the wafers to touch the cantilever tube. The carrier lowers the boat onto the bottom inner surface of the tube, causing the boat to cover a portion of the elongated slot. The procedure is repeated for subsequent wafer boats, each of which abuts the previous one, to effectively close and seal the elongated slot when all of the wafer boats are positioned inside the cantilever tube.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for effectuating carrying of a plurality of spaced semiconductor wafers into and out of a furnace and also for holding said wafers during a wafer processing operation at elevated temperatures inside said furnace, said apparatus comprising in combination: (a) a first tube for holding said wafers therein, said first tube having a first end and an open second end, and a wall, said first tube having an elongated slot in a bottom portion of said wall, said elongated slot extending from said open second end along said bottom portion of said wall to a portion of said first tube in which wafer boats are to be positioned; (b) cantilever supporting means attached to said first end of said first tube for effectuating supporting of said first tube in cantilever fashion during insertion and withdrawal of said first tube into and out of said furnace; (c) a removable first wafer boat supporting at least some of said wafers, said first wafer boat having a bottom surface which covers and seals a portion of said elongated slot when said first wafer boat is positioned inside said first tube on the bottom inner surface thereof; (d) means for effectuating flow of gas into and out of said first tube, through said plurality of spaced wafers inside said first tube, and out of said tube while said first tube is being moved in and out of said furnace and while said wafers are being held in said furnace; (e) boat carrying means extendable through said elongated slot for lifting said first wafer boat above the bottom inner surface of said first tube, laterally moving said first wafer boat along the interior of said first tube above said elongated slot without any portion of said first wafer boat, any of said wafers, or any portion of said boat carrying means touching any portion of said first tube, to effectuate transferring said first wafer boat and wafers therein into and out of said first tube. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said boat carrying means includes a platform for carrying said first wafer boat or any other wafer boat similar to said first wafer boat, said platform being elongated and sufficiently narrow to extend upward through said elongated slot to support a wafer boat above the inner bottom surface of said first tube. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said first wafer boat and said other wafer boats have generally semicylindrical bottoms and grooved wafer supporting rods that hold said wafers approximately concentric with said first tube when said wafer boats are resting on the bottom interior surface of said first tube. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said boat carrying means includes a movable arm having an outer end attached to said platform to support said platform. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said boat carrying means includes vertical movement means for controlling the movement of said arm to adjust the elevation of said platform to extend through said elongated slot, and further includes axial movement means for controlling the movement of said arm and said platform in a direction parallel to a longitudinal axis of said first tube. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said boat carrying means includes transvese movement means for controlling movement of said arm to move said platform in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of said first tube. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 including control means for controlling the location of said platform and motor means responsive to said control means for moving said vertical movement means, said axial movement means, and said transverse movement means to effectuate loading and unloading of wafer boats into said first tube. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 including a plurality of shelves for supporting wafer boats, said control means also causing said motor means to effectuate movement of said platform to pick up a wafer boat from one of said shelves, carrying that wafer boat to said first tube and loading that wafer boat inside said first tube to cover a predetermined portion of said elongated slot, said control means also causing said motor means to effectuate moveing of said platform to unload a wafer boat from inside said first tube and carrying it a predetermined one of said shelves, and depositing it on that shelf. 9. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein each of said wafer boats has a flat end surface that precisely abuts a similar flat end surface of a previously loaded wafer boat in said first tube so that a plurality of said wafer boats in said first tube perform the function of a cover that effectively seals closed a portion of said elongated slot. 10. The apparatus of claim 5 including manual control means for manual controlling of the location of said platform to effectuate loading a wafer boat into said first tube and unoading that wafer boat from said first tube. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said cantilever supporting means includes soft landing means for effectuating gently lowering said first tube onto a bottom inner surface inside said furnace after insertion of said first tube into said furnace, and for raising said first tube of said bottom inner surface of said furnace prior to withdrawal of said first tube from said furnace, to prevent sagging of said first tube due to very high temperatures in said furnace. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said soft landing means includes means for lowering said second end of said first tube onto said bottom inner surface of said furnace before lowering said first end of said first tube onto said bottom inner surface of said furnace to avoid excessive stresses which would occur in said first tube near its first end if its first end were to be lowered by said cantilever supporting means onto said bottom inner surface of said furnace before lowering of said first end. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first wafer boat includes a plurality of legs positioned to extend downward through said elongated slot and below the lower surface of said first tube. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said boat carrying means including means includes means for lowering said first tube enough to rest said first wafer boat on its legs on a lower interior surface of said furnace and break contact with said first wafer boat, and laterally withdrawing said first tube from said furnace without touching siad first boat. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first tube has a first means for attachment to said cantilever supporting means and a second means for forming a seal with a mouth opening of said furnace, and further includes an interior exhaust passage means extending through said wall of said first tube between said first and second means to allow reactant gases flowing into said open second end of said first tube to be exhausted for collection by a scavenger. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 including interior bypass passage means in open communication with said interior exhaust passage means and extending through said wall of said first tube on the side of said second means opposite to said first means for ejecting reactant gases flowing in a space between an interior surface of said furnace and an outer surface of said first tube into said exhaust passage means. 17. An apparatus for carrying a plurality of spaced semiconductor wafers into and out of a furnace and also for holding said wafers during a wafer processing operation at elevated temperatures inside said furnace, said apparatus comprising in combination: (a) a tube for holding said wafers therein and having a wall and a first end and a second end; (b) cantilever supporting means attached to said first end of said tube for effectuating supporting of said tube in cantilever fashion during insertion and withdrawal of said tube into and out of said furnace; (c) an opening in said wall of said tube for effectuting loading of said wafers into said tube; (d) means for covering said opening while said wafers are in said tube; (e) means for effectuating flow of gas into and out of said tube, through said plurality of spaced wafers located inside said tube, and out of said tube while said tube is being moved in and out of said furnace and while said wafers are being held in said furnace; (f) wafer transfer means for effectuating transfer of said plurality of wafers into and out of said tube; and (g) soft landing means included in said cantilever supporting means for effectuating gently lowering said second end of said first tube onto a bottom inner surface of said furnace after insertion of said first tube into said furnace and before lowering said first end of said first tube onto said bottom inner surface of said furnace to avoid excessive stresses near said first end of said first tube. 18. A method for carring a plurality of spaced semiconductor wafers into and out of a furnace and also for holding said wafers during a wafer processing operation at elevated temperatures inside said furnace, said method comprising the steps of: (a) holding a rigid first tube in cantilever fashion at a first end thereof, said first tube having an open second end, a wall, and an elongated slot in a bottom portion of said wall, said elongated slot extending from said second end along said bottom portion of said wall to a portion of said first tube in which wafer boats are to be positioned; (b) placing a first wafer boat on a platform adjacent to said open second end of said first tube, said platform being sufficiently narrow to pass through said elongated slot without touching said first tube; (c) moving said platform and said first wafer boat therein so that said platform passes through said elongated slot without touching said first tube and said first wafer boat moves into said first tube thorugh said open end without touching said first tube; (d) lowering said platform through said elongated slot to clear said first tube and thereby set said first wafer boat on a bottom inner surface of said first tube so that the bottom surface of said first wafer boat sealabley covers a predetermined portion of said elongated slot; and (e) causing gas to flow into said first tube through said wafers and out of said first tube and concurrently moving said first tube with said first wafer boat therein into said furnace. 19. The method of claim 14 including repeating steps (b), (c), and (d) to load a plurality of additional wafer boats in abutting end-to-end relationship to each other to cover and effectively seal an additional predetermined portion of said elongated slot with respect to said gas. 20. The method of claim 14 including the steps of withdrawing said first tube from said furnace while causing gas to flow in said first tube, unloading the lasted loaded one of said wafer boats by moving said platform beneath the last loaded one of said wafer boats, raising said platform through said elongated slot to lift that wafer boat slightly above the bottom inner surface of said first tube, and moving that wafer boat out of said first tube through said open second end thereof. 21. The method of claim 16 including manually performing steps (b), (c), and (d). 22. The method of claim 16 including automatically performing steps (b), (c), and (d) to move wafer boats of unprocessed wafers from a storage rack to the open second end of said first tube to load those wafer boats into said first tube before insertion of said first tube and said wafer boats of unprocessed wafers into said furnace. 23. The method of claim 18 including, after withdrawing said first tube from said furnace, repeating said unloading step for additional ones of said wafer boats. 24. The method of claim 14 including, after step (e), gently lowering said first tube onto a bottom inner surface of said furnace while continuing to support said first tube to thereby prevent sagging of said first tube. 25. The method of claim 20 including lowering siad second end of said first tube onto the bottom inner surface of said furnace before lowering said first end of said first tube onto the bottom inner surface of said furnace to avoid excessive stress near said first end of said first tube. 26. An apparatus for effectuating carrying of a plurality of spaced semiconductor wafers into and out of a furnace and also for holding said wafers during a wafer processing operation at elevated temperatures inside said furnace, said apparatus comprising in combination: (a) a first tube for holding said wafers therein, said first tube having a first end and an open second end, and a wall, said first tube having an elongated slot in a bottom portion of said wall, said elongated slot extending from said open second end along said bottom portion of said wall to a portion of said first tube in which wafer boats are to be positioned; (b) cantilever supporting means attached to said first end of said first tube for effectuating supporting of said first tube in cantilever fashion during insertion and withdrawal of said first tube into and out of said furnace; (c) removable first wafer boat means supporting at least some of said wafers, for supporting those wafers over said elongated slot when said first wafer boat means is positioned inside said first tube on the bottom inner surface thereof; (d) means for effectuating flow of gas into said first tube, through said plurality of spaced wafers inside said first tube, and out of said tube while said first tube is in said furnace and while said wafers are being held over said elongated slot; and (e) boat carrying means extendable through said elongated slot for lifting said first wafer boat means above the bottom inner surface of said first tube, laterally moving said first wafer boat along the interior of said first tube above said elongated slot without any portion of said first wafer boat, without any of said wafers, or any portion of said boat carrying means touching any portion of said first tube, to effectuate transferring said first wafer boat and wafers therein into and out of said first tube. 27. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first tube has a plurality of semicircular slots above said elongated slot. 