A universal driver tool pivotable into a plurality of angular positions is disclosed for use by a computer controlled robotic manipulator. Improved mechanism for connecting the driver tool to the pneumatic system of the robot is disclosed as is a technique for quickly changing the bit driver by the tool without requiring a complete tool change operation.
Claims I claim: 1. A tool for driving bits comprising: a pair of stationary blocks; an air driver located between said blocks and pivotably connected thereto; first means in one of said pair of blocks for selectively pivoting said air driver between two positions, said first means including a pneumatically actuated rack and pinion drivingly connected to the air driver; second means in the other of said pair of blocks for locking said air driver in a plurality of angular positions, said second means comprising orthogonal pairs of grooves, one of each pair provided in parallel edges of the block, each groove being of the same width as the air driver, on the side of the block adjacent the air driver; and third means for resiliently urging the block into contact with the air driver in either of its two positions. 2. The tool of claim 1 further including fourth means in the air driver for accepting interchangeable bits. 3. An approved tool for robotic manipulation while held in a gripper including: a generally elongated body comprising an air driver having a bit receiver means connected at one end thereof; two stationary members located on either side of the body and connected thereto; means for moving the elongated body about a pivot axis transverse to its linear axis comprising, pneumatically actuated rack and pinion means located in a first one of the two stationary members; and a pair of studs, in axial alignment, attached on either side of the body, one rotatively mounted in each of the stationary members, said one in the first stationary member being fixedly connected to the pinion; means for locking the elongated body in a plurality of positions, said means for locking comprising, at least two pairs of grooves in the second of the two stationary members, each of said grooves being the width of and adapted to conform to the periphery of the elongated body; resilient means connected to the second stationary member, said resilient means being adapted to urge the second stationary member away from the elongated body, leaving the body free to pivot; means for selectively overcoming the resilient means when the body has reached a predetermined position; and means for maintaining the body in either of said pair of grooves; and means for operatively connecting the tool to the power supply systems of the robotic manipulator comprising, at least one cavity in the gripper, said cavity being connected to a source of pneumatic power, and at least one protruding bore on the tool, said protruding bore being adapted to sealingly conform to the interior of the cavity. 4. The tool of claim 3 wherein there are two pairs of grooves arranged transverse to each other. 5. The tool of claim 4, wherein the bit receiver means in the elongated body is adapted for receiving a plurality of interchangeable bits. 