This invention describes novel method and apparatus for inspecting gear geometry via optical triangulation. Preferred machine construction uses specialized geometrical relationships of sensor to gear, and specialized high accuracy photodetector array based laser triangulation sensor units of large range and high response speed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining gear geometry comprising: (a) providing a gear in an inspection position, said gear having a gear axis; (b) providing a light source for projecting a zone of light onto a surface of a gear at a first surface location, said light being projected onto said surface in a direction whch is offset from a gear radius when viewed along the gear axis; (c) providing a light detector for detecting a image of said zone of light; (d) determining the position of a detected image of said zone of light; (e) determining from the determined image position, the location of the gear surface on which said zone of light was projected; (f) moving said gear relative to said light source such that said light source is positioned to project a zone of light onto said gear surface at a second surface location different from said first surface location; (g) repeating steps (b) through (f); and (h) determining, from a plurality of determinations of the location of the gear surface on which said zone of light was projected, geometry of said gear. 2. A method according to claim 1 further comprising automatically controlling steps (b) through (h). 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein said controlling step comprises: entering the type of gear; determining, from the entered gear type, correct inspection positions for said light source and light detector relative to a gear located in said inspection position; and automatically positioning said light source and light detector at said correct inspection positions relative to said gear. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein said light source and light detector are provided in a unitary housing. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said light detector comprises an image scanning light detector array, said array having an integrating time long than the array scan time. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein said gear geometry determining step comprises: obtaining a series of data points representative of locations of said surface; fitting a curve to a series of said data points; and comparing said curve to the correct shape of said surface. 7. A method according to claim 1 further comprising lens means for imaging said zone of light onto said detector, and wherein said light detector is canted at an angle, not 90.degree., to the optical axis of said lens, said cant angle being chosen so as to vary the magnification on the detector as a function of the width of the projected light zone on said surface. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein the light is projected in a direction which is offset, when viewed along the gear axis, from a line normal to the gear surface at the zone of projected light. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein light is directed in a direction which is offset from said normal line by an angle of up to 45.degree.. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein the light is projected in a line which, when viewed along the gear axis, is parallel to a gear radius and spaced therefrom by 0.1 to 0.75 times the gear pitch diameter. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein the light is projected in a line inclined to a plane perpendicular to the gear axis. 12. A method according to claim 1 wherein the zone of light is a spot having a diameter of up to 0.3 mm. 13. A method according to claim 1 wherein said light source comprises a pulsed laser. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein said gear is mounted in a grinding machine. 15. Apparatus for determining gear geometry comprising: (a) means for positioning a gear in an inspection position, said gear having a gear axis; (b) a light source for projecting a zone of light onto a surface of a gear at a first surface location, said light being projected onto said surface in a direction which is offset from a gear radius when viewed along the gear axis; (c) a light detector for detecting an image of said zone of light; (d) means for determining the position of a detected image of said zone of light; (e) means for determining from the determined image position, the location of the gear surface on which said zone of light was projected; (f) means for moving said gear relative to said light source such that said light source is positioned to project a zond of light onto said gear surface at a second surface location different from said first surface location; (g) means for repeating steps (b) through (f); and (h) means for determining, from a plurality of determinations of the location of the gear surface on which said zone of light was projected, geometry of said gear. 16. Apparatus according to claim 15 further comprising means for automatically controlling means (b) through (h). 17. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said controlling means comprises: means for entering the type of gear; means for determining, from the entered gear type, correct inspection positions for said light source and light detector relative to a gear located in said inspection position; and means for automatically positioning said light source and light detector at said correct inspection positions relative to said gear. 18. Apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said light source and light detector are provided in a unitary housing. 19. Apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said light detector comprises an image scanning light detector array, said array having an integrating time longer than the array scan time. 20. Apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said gear geometry determining means comprises: means for obtaining a series of data points representative of locations of said surface; means for fitting a curve to a series of said data points; and means for comparing said curve to the correct shape of said surface. 21. Apparatus according to claim 15 further comprising lens means for imaging said zone of light onto said detector, and wherein said light detector is canted at an angle, not 90.degree., to the optical axis of said lens, said cant angle being chosen so as to vary the magnification on the detector as a function of the width of the projected light zone on said surface. 22. Apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the light is projected in a direction which is offset, when viewed along the gear axis, from a line normal to the gear surface at the zone of projected light. 23. Apparatus according to claim 22 wherein light is directed in a direction which is offset from said normal line by an angle of up to 45.degree.. 24. Apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the light is projected in a line which, when viewed along the gear axis, is parallel to a gear radius and spaced therefrom by 0.1 to 0.75 times the gear pitch diameter. 25. Apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the light is projected in a line inclined to a plane perpendicular to the gear axis. 26. Apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the zone of light is a spot having a diameter of up to 0.3 mm. 27. Apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said light source comprises a pulsed laser. 28. Apparatus according to claim 27 wherein said gear is mounted in a grinding machine. 