A disk package for memory disks and the like and including a top cover, a disk cassette, and a bottom cover where the top cover includes sides with hooks which engage about catches on the box, and the bottom cover includes a channel which frictionally engages to the bottom edges of the box. The disk cassette supports a plurality of memory disks through perimeter contact of a rounded side and separated by teeth. The top cover includes a plurality of fingers which extend downwardly from the top cover, the fingers movable with respect to each other for engaging each disk independently of each other. The disks are separated by teeth having a rounded profile and a flat portion therebetween for perimeter contact with the disks, the teeth being longitudinal in length and running about the rounded sides and sides of the box.
Claims I claim: 1. Package for memory disks comprising: a. disk cassette including lower opposing edges, opposing ends affixed to said edges, rounded disk supporting sides affixed to said lower edges, and overlapping perimeter encompassing each top edge of said rounded disk supporting sides, relief area in each of said ends, vertical edges extending outwardly and downwardly about said ends, rounded catch edges extending outwardly about said relief circumference, a plurality of opposing rounded sawteeth with spaces therebetween positioned on said rounded disk supporting sides of said box and extending inwardly; b. bottom cover including a bottom substantially planar member, a draft extending into said planar member, a perimeter about said planar member including four encompassing corners and forming a channel therein; and, c. top cover including a planar member, and outwardly extending draft member, two rows of opposing movable flexible members extending downwardly from said planar member, a downwardly extending perimeter extending about sides and ends of said top planar member, downwardly extending oval ends including rounded circumferences extending slightly inward, and locking catches located about each end of said rounded circumference. 2. Package for memory disks comprising: a. disk box including lower opposing edges, opposing ends affixed to said edges, rounded disk supporting sides affixed to said lower edges, and overlapping perimeter encompassing each top edge of said rounded disk supporting sides, relief area in each of said ends, vertical edges extending outwardly and downwardly about said ends, rounded catch edges extending outwardly about said relief circumference, a plurality of opposing rounded sawteeth with flat members therebetween positioned on said rounded disk supporting sides of said box and extending inwardly, and a plurality of stacking indentations about corners of said perimeter; b. bottom cover including a bottom substantially planar member, a draft extending into said planar member, a perimeter about said planar member including four encompassing corners and forming a channel therein; and c. top cover including a planar member, an outwardly extending draft member, two rows of opposing movable fingers extending downwardly from said planar member, V grooves in each of said fingers, short slots extending from an apex of each said grooves extending slightly downward in said finger, long slots extending downward between each of said fingers, a downward extending perimeter extending about sides and ends of said top planar member, downwardly extending oval ends including rounded circumference extending slightly inward, and locking catches located about each end of said rounded circumferences. 