A transformer for electric welders, especially welders having a welding gun secured to a robot arm, comprises a small lightweight loop core having first and second substantially C-shaped sections abutted together at their free ends with primary and secondary windings coaxially wrapped about one pair of abutting shanks. The secondary winding comprises an elongated flat sheet wrapped around abutting shanks of the core and has projecting tabs extending from opposite sides of the sheet. A primary winding comprising a plurality of coil sections is coaxially wrapped about the secondary winding whereby the secondary winding is substantially entirely coupled to the primary winding. The windings are encapsulated in a dielectric material such as a synthetic polymer resin. The transformer is preferably connected to a high frequency electrical power source.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A linear transformer comprising: a core having two substantially C-shaped portions, each portion having first and second shanks extending in a parallel relationship from a base leg, the ends of said first and second shanks of one portion abutting against the ends of said first and second shanks, respectively, of the other portion, to form a closed loop core; a secondary winding wrapped around said first shanks of said core portions; a primary winding coaxially wrapped about said secondary winding substantially the same length as said secondary winding; a coating of electrically insulating material encapsulating said windings and said first shanks of said core sections; wherein said secondary winding comprises a monolithic, single turn winding. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said secondary winding comprises a sheet of electrically conducting material. 3. The invention as defined in claim 2 wherein said secondary winding includes a projecting tab at each opposing side of said sheet. 4. The invention as defined in claim 3 wherein said tabs are disposed intermediate the axial ends of said sheet. 5. In combination with a robotic welder having a single arm, positive and negative welding electrodes mounted at one end of said arm, and means for controlling movement of said arm including an electric power source, the improvement comprising a transformer mounted to said arm adjacent to said end, wherein said transformer comprises; a core having two substantially C-shaped portions, each portion having first and second shanks extending in a parallel relationship from a base leg, the ends of said first and second shanks of one portion abutting against the ends of said first and second shanks, respectively, of the other portion, to form a closed loop core; a secondary winding wrapped around said first shanks of said core portions; a primary winding coaxially wrapped about said secondary winding substantially the same length as said secondary winding; a coating of electrically insulating material encapsulating said windings and said first shanks of said core section; and wherein said secondary winding comprises a monolithic, single turn winding. 6. The invention as defined in claim 5 and further comprising means for electrically connecting said primary winding to the electric power source. 