A programmable force assembler for robots includes a bi-directionally actuatable slide member. A microprocessor is programmable for controlling insertion force independent of the distance moved by the slide member. A position indicator transmits slide member distance signals and velocity information to the microprocessor. A pressure transducer is connected to the bi-directional actuator and is coupled to send signals to the microprocessor. A supply valve is connected to the bi-directional actuator and is coupled for receiving signals from the microprocessor in response to the pressure transducer signals.
Claims Having thus described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. Force assembler apparatus for robots comprising: a movable slide member; a bi-directional actuator connected to the slide member; microprocessor means programmable for controlling insertion force independent of distance moved by the slide member; position indicator means connected to the slide member and coupled to send slide member distance signals and velocity information to the microprocessor; pressure transducer means connected to the bi-directional actuator and coupled for sending signals to the microprocessor; and supply valve means connected to the bi-directional actuator and coupled for receiving signals from the microprocessor in response to the position indicator signals and pressure transducer signals. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 including: a robotic arm connected to the slide member and having a controller coupled to send signals to and receive signals from the microprocessor. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 including: a device holder connected to the slide member. 4. Force assembler apparatus for robots comprising: a movable slide member; means connected for bi-directionally actuating the slide member; microprocessor means programmable for controlling insertion force and for monitoring distance moved by the slide member and for determining the velocity thereof; a position indicator connected to the slide member; means coupled for carrying distance signals and velocity information from the position indicator to the microprocessor; a pressure transducer connected to the bi-directional actuator; means coupled for carrying signals from the pressure transducer to the microprocessor; a supply valve connected to the bi-directional actuator; and means coupled for carrying signals from the microprocessor to the supply valve, said signals including programmed microprocessor data responsive to position indicator signals and pressure transducer signals. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 including: a device holder connected to the slide member. 6. A robotic assembler having an arm and a controller for mounting electronic devices on a circuit board comprising: a movable slide member connected to the arm; means connected for bi-directionally actuating the slide member; microprocessor means coupled to send signals to and receive signals from the robotic controller, said microprocessor being programmable for controlling insertion force for devices of varying weight, and for monitoring and controlling distance moved by the slide member and determining the velocity thereof; position indicator means connected to the slide member and coupled to send slide member distance signals and velocity information to the microprocessor; pressure transducer means connected to the slide member actuating means and coupled for sending signals to the microprocessor; a supply valve connected to the slide member actuating means; and means coupled for carrying signals from the microprocessor to the supply valve, said signals including programmed microprocessor data responsive to robotic arm signals, position indicator signals and pressure transducer signals. 