A robot arm, especially useful as a parts catcher, uses an extensible arm which may be in the form of a telescopic slide. The arm and a fluid operated actuator, such as a pneumatic cylinder, are pivotally mounted on a base at one end thereof. A wrist is pivotally mounted on the upper end of the arm. The actuator is connected to the wrist and pivots the arm, extends and retracts the arm and pivots the wrist. A receptacle is carried by the wrist and serves to catch parts when the arm is pivoted and extended to a parts catching position. Stops on the arm limit its pivotal and extensile movement. Stops are also provided to limit the pivotal movement of the wrist. These stops and a compression spring which biases the wrist provide static limits or forces against which the actuator works. Because of the location of the stops and the spring, the cycle of movement of the arm between parts catching position and an unloading or delivering position where the receptacle may be tilted and the parts therein dumped is controlled.
Claims I claim: 1. Robotic apparatus which comprises an extensible passive arm pivotable on a first pivot, a wrist rotatably mounted on said arm, an extensible actuator pivotable on a second pivot, said actuator being pivotally connected to said wrist, means against which said actuator works for limiting the distance over which said arm rotates about said first pivot without extending or retracting, and means against which said actuator works for limiting the extension and retraction distances of said arm and enabling the rotation of said wrist whereby said arm and wrist execute a predetermined cycle of arm rotation, arm extension and wrist rotation as said actuator extends and retracts. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising a base, means on said base definining said first and second pivots with their axes in parallel spaced relationship, said arm and said actuator having opposite ends, said first and second pivots being disposed at one of said opposite ends of said actuator and arm respectively, said wrist being mounted at the other of said opposite ends of said arm, and the other of said opposite ends of said actuator being pivotally connected to said wrist. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising means for limiting the rotation of said wrist to assist in controlling said cycle. 4. The apparatus according to claim 3 further comprising means on said arm for biasing said wrist against rotation in one sense and against said wrist rotation limiting means in the opposite sense whereby to control the rotation of said wrist during said cycle. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 further comprising means carried by said wrist and rotatable therewith actuated to provide different operations in different parts of said cycle. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said arm has first and second sections in telescoping relationship, one of said sections being mounted on said first pivot and the other of said sections being connected to said wrist. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said rotation limiting means comprises means rotatable with said one section having stops angularly displaced on opposite sides of said one section to limit the clockwise and counterclockwise rotation of said arm, and said extension and retraction limiting means comprising first stop means carried by said one section at different distances from said first pivot, and means connected to said other section and engageable with said stop means for limiting the displacement of said other section in the extension and retraction directions. 8. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said actuator comprises a fluid actuated piston having a rod extended therefrom, said wrist comprising a shaft shaft, means pivotally linking said rod to said lever to provide said connection between said actuator and said wrist. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said arm has first and second sections linearly movable with respect to each other to extend and retract said arm, one of said sections being connected to said first pivot and the other to said wrist, stops limiting the clockwise and counterclockwise rotation of said shaft, a compression spring mounted on said other section and coupled to said rod and said lever for biasing said wrist against one of said shaft stops and in opposition to the force of said actuator exerted in one of said extension and retraction directions. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said fluid is compressed air and said actuator is a pneumatic actuator having a cylinder in which the piston and rod are movable. 11. Parts catcher apparatus which comprises a receptacle movable between parts catching and delivering positions, a base, a passive arm having a first section pivotally mounted on said base at one end thereof which defines an end of said arm, and a second section linearly movable with respect to said first section and connected thereto, an actuator having a cylinder with a piston rod movable axially therein, said cylinder being pivotally mounted on said base, means rotationally mounting said receptacle at an end of said second section which defines the end of said arm opposite to said one end thereof, means pivotally connecting said piston rod to said receptacle rotationally mounting means, means against which said actuator works for limiting the distances said arm and receptacle rotate without movement of said first and second sections in the clockwise and counter-clockwise directions as said piston rod extends from and retracts into said cylinder, and means against which said actuator works for limiting the distance said second section moves with respect to said first section after said arm reaches the limits of its rotation established by said rotation limiting means whereby to enable rotation of said receptacle and to bring said receptacle to said catching and delivering positions upon rotation over the limiting distances in different ones of said clockwise and counter-clockwise directions. 12. Parts catcher apparatus according to claim 11 further comprising means for biasing said receptacle mounting means against rotation in a direction which turns said receptacle from upright to tilted position so that the parts therein can be dumped therefrom. 13. Parts catcher apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said biasing means comprises a spring mounted on said second section and connected to said means pivotally connecting said rod to said receptacle mounting means whereby said actuator must overcome the bias of said spring to rotate said receptacle to said tilted position. 14. Parts catcher apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said receptacle defines a trough having a stem, said stem extending diametrically through said shaft, said receptacle mounting means comprising a shaft, said piston rod pivotally connecting means comprising a lever fixed to said shaft and extending radially therefrom, and means pivotally connecting said lever to said piston rod, said spring being a compression spring connected at the opposite ends thereof to said second section and to said lever. 15. Parts catcher apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said first arm section is a member on which said second arm section is slidably mounted, said means for limiting the distance which second section moves comprising a member connected to said first section and extending along said second section, a block on said second section having a hole through which said member passes, and stops on said member engageable with said block at opposite ends thereof for limiting said extension and retraction distances of said second member and arm. 16. Parts catcher apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said second arm section is disposed in telescoping, sliding relationship with said first arm section. 17. Parts catcher apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said first arm section comprises a first plate, and said second section comprises second and third plates disposed on opposite sides of said first plate. 18. Parts catcher apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said rotation limiting means comprises a fourth plate mounted for rotation about the same pivot as said first plate, said fourth plate having stops along edges thereof facing said base, said stops being engageable with said base, and means connecting said fourth plate to said first plate for rotation therewith. 