A self-propelled, reconfigurable running toy that can be transformed from a running vehicle mode into a robot shaped toy mode is provided. In the vehicle mode, the toy can run with leg portions thereof folded up and locked in position above a body portion. During its running motion, the leg portions suddenly extend straight forwards, so that the toy is enabled to take up an upright (standing) position by the reaction force generated by the sudden movement of the leg portions.
Claims Accordingly, the scope of the present invention should be measured solely from the following claims, wherein I claim: 1. A self-propelled reconfigurable running toy capable of both a translational and predetermined rotational movement while it is being played with, comprising a frame member having a longitudinal axis; a wheel assembly attached to the frame member; a motor assembly attached to the frame member and which is capable of operatively driving the wheel assembly for translational movement across a support surface; means for intentionally rotating the frame member about an axis transverse to the longitudinal axis so that the longitudinal axis is positioned at approximately a 90.degree. angle to its original initial position at the start of its translational movement during a predetermined period of its translational movement, including a base member for mounting the running toy on said support surface; and means for varying the force generated during rotation of the frame member including a member for varying the contact distance between one end of the frame member and the support surface when the base member is rotated, wherein said running toy can be stood up on said support surface by said base member when said frame member rotates about the axis traverse to the longitudinal axis during the predetermined period of its translational movement. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein the frame member simulates the body of a humanoid robot and the base member simulates the legs of a humanoid robot. 3. The invention of claim 2 wherein the frame member has front surface which is positioned on the top of the toy in a vehicle configuration, the base member is pivotally mounted at the top front surface of the frame member and at least one spring member biases the base member to rotate about the top front surface. 4. The invention of claim 3 including a pair of stop members extending forward of the frame member and parallel to the longitudinal axis. 5. A reconfigurable toy that can be converted from a vehicle that can move across an approximately horizontal support surface into a robot comprising: a frame member having a longitudinal axis approximately parallel to a support surface in a vehicle configuration, the frame member also simulating the body of a robotic figure; means for translating the frame member across a support surface; a chassis member movably mounted to the frame member and capable of extending outward from the frame member by approximately 180.degree. from a vehicle position above the frame member to a robot position, the chassis member simulating the legs of a robotic figure; means for biasing the chassis member to an extended position in alignment with the longitudinal axis of the frame member, and means for releasing the chassis member when folded above the frame member during the translation of the toy in a vehicle configuration including means for moving the chassis member away from the frame member whereby the rotational forces created by the movement of the chassis member above the frame member rotates the frame member so that the longitudinal axis is automatically positioned at approximately a 90.degree. angle to its original initial position parallel to the support surface when the toy terminates its movement and assumes a robot configuration. 6. The invention of claim 5 wherein the means for translating the frame member across a support surface include at least a pair of wheels mounted on the frame member. 7. The invention of claim 6 further including a motor mounted in the frame member for driving the wheels. 8. The invention of claim 5 further including means on the frame member for varying the rotational forces generated by the chassis member to insure a standing robotic configuration when the toy terminates its movement. 9. The invention of claim 5 wherein the means for biasing forces the chassis member in the same direction that the frame member is translating across the support surface. 10. The invention of claim 9 wherein the frame member simulates the body of a humanoid robot and the chassis member simulates the legs of a humanoid robot. 11. The invention of claim 10 wherein the chassis member is pivotally mounted at a surface of the frame member and at least one spring member biases the base member to rotate about the pivot point. 12. The invention of claim 11 including a pair of stop members extending forward of the frame member and parallel to the longitudinal axis. 13. The invention of claim 12 further including means on the frame member for varying the rotational forces of the chassis member to insure a standing robotic configuration when the toy terminates its movement. 14. The invention of claim 9 wherein the chassis member is bifurcated to simulate a pair of legs and wheels are provided on each leg. 15. The invention of claim 15 wherein the physical configuration of the chassis member and frame member simulate an aircraft when folded together. 16. A reconfigurable toy capable of both a translational movement across a support surface in a first configuration and an automatic conversion into a second configuration at a predetermined time, the second configuration being positioned approximately 90.degree. rotated from the longitudinal axis of the first configuration, comprising: a first member having a longitudinal axis with a forward end and a rear end relative to direction of movement of the toy; wheel means for permitting movement of the first member in a first configuration across a support surface; a second member pivotally attached to the forward end of the first member; means for biasing the second member to an extended position in alignment with the longitudinal axis of the first member; means for retaining the second member in a folded position above the first member; means for releasing the second member, the second member having sufficient weight for rotation about its pivot point to initially lift the forward end from the support surface in a first direction and to cause a reaction force to then subsequently rotate it in a second direction whereby the second configuration is formed and is finally positioned upright at 90.degree. from the original position of the longitudinal axis. 17. The invention of claim 16 further including means for varying the degree of force generated during rotation of the first member. 18. The invention of claim 17 wherein the means for varying the degree of force includes a member for varying the contact distance between the rear end of the first member and the support surface when the second member is initially rotated about the pivot point. 19. The invention of claim 18 wherein the first member simulates the body of a humanoid robot and the second member simulates the legs of a humanoid robot. 20. The invention of claim 19 including a pair of stop members extending forward of the frame member and parallel to the longitudinal axis. 21. The invention of claim 19 wherein the first member includes a robotic head configuration and the means for varying the force includes a rotable lever that can be positioned at varying distances from the support surface. 22. The invention of claim 10 wherein the first member includes a pair of robotic arm appendages. 23. The invention of claim 22 wherein the first member includes a pair of wings. 24. The invention of claim 23 wherein the legs include wheels along one edge only. 25. The invention of claim 24 wherein a spring-propelled motor is mounted in the first member. 26. The invention of claim 25 wherein the means for releasing the second member is intiated by the spring-propelled motor. 