A hollow tube (3) supports a spring (5) coaxially positioned within the tube (3) and free to rotate within it. The tube (3) has a longitudinal slot (4) through which components (2) threaded onto the coils of the spring (5) hang down. A motor 6 rotates the spring (5) causing the components, constrained by the slot (4), to move longitudinally along the slot (4). When they reach the end of the slot (4), they are orientated by the end of the spring (5), which has been suitably shaped, to the correct orientation to be presented for automatic mounting on a printed circuit board.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus for presenting components in a predetermined orientation, comprising: a hollow cylindrical member having a longitudinal slot therein; a helical member substantially coaxially positioned within said cylindrical member; and motor means for rotating said helical member to thereby move along said longitudinal slot components which are, in use, slidably mounted on said helical member so as to extend into said longitudinal slot whereby said components are presented at an end of said longitudinal slot in said predetermined orientation. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said helical member includes a first end coupled to said motor means and a second end for presenting said components in said predetermined orientation. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said components has at least one aperture therethrough via which the component may be threaded onto the coils of the helical member so as to extend into said longitudinal slot. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said helical member comprises a spring. 5. Apparatus for presenting components in a predetermined orientation comprising a frame for holding a plurality of cartridges, each cartridge comprising: a hollow cylindrical member having a longitudinal slot therein; and a helical member substantially coaxially positioned within said cylindrical member and having, in use, components slidably mounted thereon so as to extend into said longitudinal slot; there further being provided means for positioning each cartridge in turn in such a way as to present a component mounted on an end of said helical member in said predetermined orientation, and means for rotating said helical member so as to move components slidably mounted thereon to said end thereof. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5 wherein each cartridge incorporates said means for rotating said helical member. 7. Apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said means for rotating said helical member is positioned on said frame and includes means for coupling to the helical member of a predetermined cartridge. 