This plasma arc torch includes an improved front end assembly to create an improved gouge path when compared with prior art plasma arc gougers. The front end assembly includes a unique secondary gas nozzle for distribution of the secondary gas in a partial radial blanket up to 300.degree. around the plasma. Conventional nozzles distribute the seondary gas in a total, 360 degree, blanket around the plasma. An improved tip design is believed to develop an enlarged plasma stream to further enhance the gouging process.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A front end assembly for a plasma arc torch utilizing an electrode, a plasma gas stream and a secondary gas stream comprising: a. a tip for gouging having: i. an elongated barrel with a first end and a second end; ii. said first end forming a hollow recess sized to enclose a portion of said electrode; and iii. said second end forming an orifice for the passage of said plasma gas stream; b. a secondary gas nozzle for gouging having: i. a central aperture in said nozzle sized to allow said tip to extend through said central aperture; ii. a peripheral passageway directing said secondary gas stream in a blanket about said tip and said plasma gas stream as it exits said orifice; and iii. a radial abutment blocking a portion of said peripheral passageway to restrict said blanket and prevent complete enrichment of said plasma gas stream. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said radial abutment blocks up to 120.degree. of said peripheral passageway. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further including: a. means to removably attach said tip to said plasma arc torch; and b. means to removably attach said secondary gas nozzle to said plasma arc torch. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said secondary gas nozzle is formed from an electrically non-conductive material. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the exterior surface of said secondary gas nozzle is formed from an electrically nonconductive material. 6. A secondary gas nozzle for use with a plasma arc gouging torch, said torch utilizing a plasma gas and a secondary gas and said torch containing a tip having an orifice therein for the passage of said plasma gas, comprising: means of directing said secondary gas in a partial radial blanket about said plasma gas as it exits said orifice, said partial radial blanket extending up to 300.degree. about said plasma gas. 7. A plasma arc torch adapted to be operated as a gouger utilizing a plasma gas and a secondary gas comprising: a. a body; b. an electrode mounted in said body; c. a tip mounted in said body and electrically insulated from said electrode, said tip having an orifice therein; d. a plasma gas passageway between said electrode and said tip allowing said plasma gas to pass through said passageway and thereafter to exit through said orifice in said tip; e. a secondary gas passageway having an inlet and an outlet; f. a secondary gas nozzle positioned at said outlet of said secondary gas passageway, said secondary gas nozzle directing said secondary gas in a radial blanket about said plasma gas as it exits said orifice of said tip; and g. said secondary gas nozzle having a radial abutment to obstruct a portion of said radial blanket and prevent complete encirclement of said plasma gas stream. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said abutment obstructs up to 120.degree. of said radial blanket. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said secondary gas nozzle is removably mounted in a friction fit on said body of said torch. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said tip comprises: a. an elongate barrel having a first end and a second end; b. said first end forming a hollow recess sized to enclose a portion of said electrode; and c. said second end forming an orifice for the passage of plasma gas. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said orifice is formed in a frustroconical shape having its largest diameter at said second end. 12. A plasma gouging torch utilizing a plasma gas and a secondary gas comprising: a. a body; b. an electrode mounted in said body; c. a tip mounted in said body and electrically insulated from said electrode, said tip having an orifice therein; d. a plasma gas passageway between said electrode and said tip allowing said plasma gas to pass through said passageway and thereafter to exit through said orifice in said tip; e. a secondary gas conduit having an inlet and an outlet; and f. means for directing said secondary gas in a partial blanket about said plasma gas as it exits said orifice of said tip. 