A permanently installed manufacturing system, to join together loose part sub-assemblies with quick change workstations and exchange tool transporters. The flexible manufacturing process involves the automatic, or manual, joining of loose components, regardless of the assembly technology used, the model mix required, or the type of product to be assembled. The system allows the utilization of interchangeable flex-tools, supported on various types of power and free transporters, that can be programmably controlled and automatically changes over. The system will accommodate batch runs, random runs, prototype runs, as well as synchronous and asynchronous operations.
Claims We claim: 1. A production line for performing a series of different operations on a variety of workpieces in seriatim, the line comprising: a plurality of successive work stations each containing at least one machine for performing one of said operations on said workpieces, at least one of said work stations containing at least one machine, wherein said machine performs at least one operation from at least two of said series of different operations; transport means for carrying said workpieces through said succession of work stations, said transport means being selectively operable to move every said workpiece on said line simultaneously or to move any select number of said workpieces on said line asynchronously; and means for orienting and holding each said workpiece at the respective work stations. 2. The production line of claim 1 wherein said transport means vertically suspends said workpieces. 3. The production line of claim 2 wherein at least one work station contains a plurality of tooling fixtures for performing said operations and at least one of said tooling fixtures is operatively connected to said work station and located vertically beneath the patch of said transport means. 4. The production line of claim 1 further comprising a variety of workpiece carriers corresponding to each of said workpieces, said workpiece carriers engageable with said transport means for carrying said workpieces. 5. The production line of claim 4 wherein said transport means comprises a continuous conveyor. 6. A production line of claim 5 further comprising: a workpiece carrier exchanger for removing and replacing various containers without interrupting the continuity of said transport means, said workpiece carrier exchanger comprising at least one unload station whereby one of said containers will be disengaged from said transport means; and means to convey one of the containers to a vertical storage accumulator, said vertical storage accumulator comprising: a lifting mechanism to raise said container and any subsequent containers; and a support mechanism to hold lifted container and subsequent containers in place. 7. A production system for processing a variety of dissimilar workpiece comprising: a plurality of workpiece carriers for carrying said workpieces; continuous non-linear transport means for transporting said carriers in a single direction along a predetermined path; a plurality of work stations and tooling fixtures located along said path, including at least one flexible work station having at least one tooling fixture having a plurality of dissimilar tools; means for selectively orienting said one tooling fixture to selectively present one of said plurality of dissimilar tools for operation at said flexible work station; means for locating said workpieces at said flexible work stations; and control means for selecting one of said plurality of dissimilar tools for operation. 8. The production system of claim 7 wherein said transport means comprises an overhead conveyor. 9. The production system or claim 7 wherein said transport means comprises a below-surface conveyor. 10. The production system of claim 7 wherein said carriers further comprise means for locating said workpieces, and said means for locating said workpieces further comprises means for locating said carriers. 11. The production system of claim 10 wherein said means for locating said carriers is operatively associated with said tooling fixture whereby to orient a selected tool with said workpiece. 12. The production system of claim 7 wherein said tool selection occurs during and without delaying the advancement of one of said carriers into said flexible work station. 13. The production system of claim 7 wherein at least one of said plurality of tools other than said selected tool is readily accessible for replacement while said selected tool is in operation. 14. The production system of claim 7 wherein said transport means is capable of asyncronously advancing said carriers. 15. A production system for processing a continuous succession of workpieces, comprising a succession of work stations, each having automated tooling for performing manufacturing operations on said workpieces with at least one of said work stations defining a flexible workstation having a plurality of dissimilar tools for performing different manufacturing operations upon certain of said workpieces; transport means for continuously advancing said workpieces through said succession of work stations; locating means at each of said succession of work stations for locating and securing said workpieces to selectively present one of said tools for operation at said workstation, at least one of said tools other than the tool selected being readily accessible for replacement while the selected tool is in operation; and control means for selectively engaging said locating means. 16. The production system of claim 15 wherein: said succession of workpieces is located on a first level, and said transport means is located on a discrete second level such that said transport means is clear of machinery for the replacement of tooling. 17. The production system of claim 15 wherein said transport means comprises a below-surface conveyor. 18. The production system of claim 15 wherein transport means comprises a plurality of carriers for transporting said workpieces, and further comprising means for locating said carriers relative to said work stations. 19. The production system of claim 18 wherein said locating means is operatively associated with said automated tooling to align the tool selected with a presented workpiece. 20. The production system or claim 15 wherein said tool selection occurs during and without delaying the advancement of one of said carriers into said flexible work station. 21. The production system of claim 15 wherein said transport means is capable of asyncronously advancing said carriers. 22. An automated assembly line for assembling a succession of workpiece of at least two different workpiece types in respective different ways, comprising a succession of workstations each provided with an assembly tool that may be quickly exchanged as needed depending upon the work operation to be performed at that workstation, transport means for transporting the workpieces between the workstations, first control means for controlling said transport means and the tooling at each workstation whereby to perform multiple operations on the workpieces, second control means, operative at each workstation and operatively connected to said first control means, for verifying the workpiece and operation to be performed thereon, a multi-position rotate unit controlled by said second control means and adapted to store and deliver a variety of fixtures to the workpieces, and third control means to connect the transport means to the workstations, said third control means being adapted to direct and track the workpieces. 23. The automated assembly line as recited in claim 22 wherein said multi-position rotate unit includes a fixture exchange turntable to interchange assembly tools between specified workpieces, a lateral tooling shifter to interchange locating tools into and out of the workstation, and a lift table, said table for carrying a selected workpiece model locating tool and raising the workpiece into position for assembly. 24. The automated assembly line as recited in claim 22 wherein said transport mans comprises a single continuous drive power and free conveyor. 25. The automated assembly line as recited in claim 24 wherein said transport means includes a hook connected to the conveyor, and a carrier connected to the hook for supporting the individual workpieces. 26. An automated assembly line for assembling a succession of workpieces of at least two different workpiece types in respective different ways, comprising transport means for simultaneously asynchronously transporting the workpieces through a succession of work stations whereby to expose the workpiece to different operations, each work station being provided with one or more assembly tools that may be quickly changed as needed depending on the work to be performed at that work station, control means operative to control each work station for selecting an operation to be performed on the workpiece and the tool to perform the operation, including selecting no operation at all and selecting more than one operation, a tool exchange turntable for mounting one or more of said tools and adapted to be rotated whereby user access is provided to one tool while another tool is in operation, and a tool exchange shifter disposed in a plane different than the turntable for exchanging tools depending on the operation. 27. The automated assembly line as recited in claim 26 wherein the transport means comprises a power and free conveyor system and a succession of workpiece carriers, said conveyor system being adapted to stop the workpiece on one said carrier while permitting the workpieces on the other said carriers to continue on. 